

401 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Want a New Face In Albany?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
The weariness of New York voters with Mario Cuomo is palpable. We know him and his idiosyncrasies too well. He has begun to seem like a pontificating brother-in-law who has remained on the premises too long. There is a longing to show him the door, to enjoy the peace of his absence.
After shaking hands with Mr. Cuomo at the New York Sheraton Hotel last week, a woman named Muriel Hedges said, "I was married 10 years, had two kids, and now I'm divorced -- and he's still Governor!" 
 It has been a very long time. When Mr. Cuomo became Governor in January 1983 we had not yet felt the scourge of crack, did not yet understand the true horror of AIDS, and had not yet been clobbered into social and political incoherence by the anti-urban, anti-poor policies of the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
(On May 9, 1983, four months after Mr. Cuomo's inauguration, President Reagan delivered a speech in Ohio in which he denounced such programs as food stamps, the minimum wage and urban renewal. The audience stood and applauded, unconcerned by the prospect of food being taken from the mouths of hungry children.)
Suddenly it is 1994. Ronald Reagan was two Presidents ago and voters are no longer interested in hearing how Mr. Cuomo sacrificed funding for his own initiatives in order to fend off the worst consequences of Mr. Reagan's policies for New Yorkers.
Voters have short memories and no patience with details. The feeling now is that it is time for Mr. Cuomo to go.
But there's a catch. As we hustle Mr. Cuomo out the door on the left, we must turn hurriedly, put on a happy face and embrace State Senator George Pataki, a wholly owned subsidiary of Alfonse D'Amato, as he enters through the door on the right.
Are New Yorkers ready to do this? Mr. Pataki is a thoroughly undistinguished state legislator who is so beholden to Mr. D'Amato that Herbert London, the Republican candidate for comptroller, dubbed him "Alfonse Pataki." Mr. D'Amato, no champion of ethical behavior, tried to funnel a few hundred thousand dollars into Mr. Pataki's campaign, but a judge intervened and told Mr. Pataki to return whatever money he had received.
Mr. Pataki's campaign is being run largely by political operatives affiliated with Mr. D'Amato. If Mr. Pataki is invited by the voters to take up residence in the Statehouse, be assured that a substantial amount of room will have to be set aside to accommodate Mr. D'Amato's baggage.
As far as the issues are concerned, Mr. Pataki has positioned himself on the cutting edge of expediency. You want tax cuts? Bingo! You want the death penalty? No problem. You want prisons? You've got them.
Whatever it takes, baby.
This, of course, can lead to trouble. Mr. Pataki got caught lying about whether he had voted against a ban on assault weapons. He had, but he said he hadn't.
On abortion, Mr. Pataki has been all over the place, depending on the campaign at hand, or perhaps the phases of the moon. Two years ago a voters guide put out by a Right to Life political action committee said Mr. Pataki "claims to be pro-choice," but added, "He has a pro-life voting record."
Taxes? Mr. Pataki has promised a wildly unrealistic tax cut of $5.6 billion. It is a promise he cannot possibly keep without making catastrophic reductions in state services. A tax cut of that magnitude will not happen.
But Mr. Pataki was not content with making wild tax promises. Last week he vowed to crack down on crime by abolishing parole and lengthening prison terms for violent offenders. This sounds terrific. But it means that the prison population will grow substantially and that thousands of new cells (at $100,000 each) will have to be built to accommodate it. This will add billions to the state budget.
I asked Mr. Pataki if he had any idea how much his crime plan would cost. He said he did not. I asked if he expected it to interfere with his promised tax cuts. He said no.
I began to wonder if Mr. Pataki really believed the things he was saying. I thought about calling Mr. D'Amato to find out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SHERATON HOTEL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AIDS & HIV (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); BUDGETS (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) RONALD REAGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



402 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Haiti Emerges, Eyes Blinking, In the Sunlight of Democracy

BYLINE: By Jean-Bertrand Aristide; Jean-Bertrand Aristide, deposed in a coup in 1991 as President of Haiti, returned yesterday to finish his term.

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti

 BODY:
Today the light of democracy burns brightly in Haiti. It illuminates our nation's promise and potential to become a full partner in the community of nations. Many times during our three-year national nightmare, the light of democracy flickered and grew dim. But that light did not fail. The collective hopes of the Haitian people for a new beginning sustained it, and the international community raised it high so that it shone like a beacon, brightening dark corners far and wide.
Just as Nelson Mandela had to squint upon being freed from his dark prison, we Haitians are again adjusting to this bright light of freedom. I thank President Clinton for his leadership; the United States Congress for its support; human rights, civil rights rights and religious leaders and all democracy-loving people for their solidarity, and the U.S. troops for their participation in this first critical phase of the re-establishment of democracy. 
 Aided by the Multinational Force deployed under U.N. Security Council Resolution 940, we are on the path to reconciliation and justice. We are starting to see familiar signposts. We see our refugees returning to rebuild the country they fled in terror. We see Haitians expressing their political views free from fear or intimidation. We see the civic and grass-roots groups that form the backbone of Haiti's democracy beginning to regroup. We see the Parliament beginning to function and civilian elected officials at every level beginning to return to the posts they were forced to abandon for nearly three years. We soon hope to see our peaceful public demonstrations uninterrupted by political violence and political killings.
Haiti has paid a heavy toll to travel this path. We have lost 5,000 patriots, among them Father Jean-Marie Vincent, Minister of Justice Guy Malary and the democracy activist Antoine Izmery. And the road ahead is long and difficult.
Right now we have no functioning judiciary or penal system. Our military absorbs the lion's share of the national budget and for too long has been outside the scope of civilian control. There is no civilian police force -- it must be created virtually from scratch. Inflation has soared, the value of our currency has plummeted and bank lending has effectively stopped. Without a stable business environment, we cannot attract much-needed investment. We have an 85 percent illiteracy rate and one of the world's highest infant mortality rates. We must immediately begin a campaign to construct new schools and clinics to ensure Haiti's future.
Addressing these challenges is my Government's most pressing priority. We welcome the international community's pledges of financial support for our reconstruction package and economic stabilization program. We urge all freedom-loving nations to continue to support us as we build the new Haiti of peace, reconciliation and justice for all.
We make a special appeal to the international business community: Haiti welcomes your investment. You will find an open climate and a work force willing and eager to learn.
We have developed an economic plan that we are confident will restore the World Bank's confidence in Haiti, completely undermined these past three years by the devastation wrought by the coup leaders. In 1991, the bank commended our Government for "providing a window of opportunity for the country to move towards sustained social and economic progress." The U.S. Embassy praised our "surprisingly successful revenue collection, all accomplished in the last six months of the year," when my Presidency began; we reversed a six-year record of Government deficit. Now, with the strong financial support and solidarity of the international community, we will move toward greater political and economic stability and toward insuring Haiti's future as a democracy.
What are our first steps? I will name my new Prime Minister and Cabinet and we will begin to create an efficient, pared-down, decentralized Government that works for and with all citizens. Within the next several days, I will welcome a delegation of representatives of the multilateral financial institutions, to expedite the release of much needed assistance. I will replace the departed coup leaders with reform minded officers and will continue the process of identifying qualified individuals to serve as interim police until the new civilian police force can be created. I will be working with the Parliament to secure passage of legislation to create an independent judiciary.
Haiti's greatest resource is its people. Today, we begin to insure that all Haitians receive an education, access to basic health care and the means to make a living -- whether in our traditional way, through farming, or in a new way, through reconstruction and revitalization programs in the industrial sector.
Already, my Government has launched a nationwide immunization program. Over the next several days, we are distributing textbooks and notebooks and pens to our schoolchildren. Soon we will welcome our expatriate teachers, doctors and nurses to begin training new professionals.
Over the rest of my term, which ends in 1996, my Government will aim to build at least one new school and one new clinic in each of Haiti's 565 communal sections, or townships. To insure Haiti's renewal, we are beginning a nationwide tree- planting program and are starting a seed distribution, irrigation and anti-erosion campaign. Over the next few months, we will be putting Haitians to work rebuilding their country, providing needed jobs and training.
Never before, to my knowledge, has a democratically elected leader returned peacefully to an office usurped by force. We hope that Haiti's triumph will give strength to fledgling democracies worldwide. On behalf of the Haitian people, I thank the countries that played a leadership role in advancing this policy within the United Nations and the Organization of American States -- the U. S., which is now so ably spearheading the multinational force phase of the international missions; Venezuela, which offered a temporary home during those first difficult months in exile; France, our sister nation, which helped to promote European cooperation and support; Canada, whose Government never wavered in its steadfast political and financial support, and Argentina, which has pledged important support of the international mission.
Many people have asked me what it feels like to be going home after three years in exile. The answer is surprisingly simple. Though separated from my country, I have remained a Haitian and a citizen of the community of freedom-loving people. My country's constitutional crisis brought this community together in our common love of democracy. Today, we are all Haitians, celebrating restoration of the civilian Government in Haiti and the shared values we hold dear.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TRENDS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); PRISONS (75%); REFUGEES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); POLITICS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); BUDGETS (66%); LITERACY RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); RELIGION (54%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



403 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Why Hiroshima Still Haunts America's Psyche;
Casualties of Invasion

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Kai Bird (Op-Ed, Oct. 9) and William Craig (letter, Oct. 11) dispute the number of American casualties that would have been sustained in an invasion of Japan. I think Mr. Craig has the right side of that argument, that American losses would have been very heavy.
The historian John Keegan cites a June 18, 1945, meeting between Adm. William Leahy and President Truman where 268,000 Americans killed and wounded were expected in the planned invasion of Kyushu, scheduled for autumn 1945. 
 However, neither Mr. Bird nor Mr. Craig has considered the potential Japanese deaths. At Okinawa, where some 7,000 Americans were killed, 110,000 Japanese soldiers died. Worse, perhaps 150,000 Okinawan civilians perished, caught in between.
Mr. Bird has confused the pacific economic warriors of today's Japan with the fierce fighters who were their grandparents. Japanese civilians were ready to die too; in the invasion of Saipan, men, women and children jumped from high cliffs into the sea to avoid American capture.
In Japan, young girls were training with pointed sticks. Japanese deaths alone, in an invasion of the home islands, would likely have surpassed by hundreds of thousands the fatalities in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
 
MARK KEITH BENENSON
New York, Oct. 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (73%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (70%); 

CITY: HIROSHIMA, JAPAN (85%); SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (73%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (70%); HIROSHIMA, JAPAN (85%); SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (52%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); WORLD WAR II (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HISTORY (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM CRAIG (92%); JOHN KEEGAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



404 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 67 words

HEADLINE: Vaunted Signs of Economic Recovery Aren't Real to a Lot of Us;
What to Think?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
What a world we live in! If the indexes point to a strong economy, the stock and bond markets decline. If a weak economy is predicted, the markets surge. Should millions of stockholders secretly hope for a recession? And what to think if you're part of the work force that's laid off -- that the rest of the country will be tickled pink?
 
EDWARD SILVER
New York, Oct. 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (88%); LABOR FORCE (85%); SHAREHOLDERS (85%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



405 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Their Fellow Americans

BYLINE: By Susan Kenney; Susan Kenney, who teaches creative writing at Colby College, is the author of the novels "In Another Country" and "Sailing" as well as several mysteries.

 BODY:

SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS
By David Guterson.
345 pp. New York:
Harcourt Brace & Company. $21.95. 
 IN March 1942, just before the 800 Japanese residents of San Piedro Island in Puget Sound are herded off to a California internment camp, 18-year-old Hatsue Imada gives what seems a naive response to her mother's description of the deep racial bias that has surfaced in their small, isolated community in the wake of Pearl Harbor: "They don't all hate us," Hatsue says. "You're exaggerating, mother -- you know you are. They're not so different from us, you know. Some hate, others don't. It isn't all of them." Hatsue should know; for four years she has been carrying on a clandestine romance with a boy named Ishmael Chambers, son of the local newspaper editor, the two of them meeting at odd moments in a huge old hollow cedar in the forest between their houses. But neither the romance nor the friendship that they have shared since childhood will survive the bitter division brought about by the war.
Successive waves of "wayward souls and eccentrics" -- Canadian Englishmen, Scots-Irish, Scandinavians, Germans and most recently Japanese, who came originally as migrant labor to pick berries on the extensive strawberry fields and stayed on, aspiring for their American-born children to own their own plots -- have resulted in an ethnically if not economically diverse population on this "island of five thousand damp souls." Their isolation within the spectacularly beautiful but harsh environment has fostered the illusion of community, an illusion abruptly shattered by the advent of World War II.
It's now the first week in December 1954, and snow is falling outside the courtroom in the "rainy, wind-beaten sea village" of Amity Harbor, the island's only town, "downtrodden and mildewed," where Hatsue's husband, Kabuo Miyomoto, is on trial. He is charged with the first-degree murder of Carl Heine, a fellow fisherman, whose body was found early on the morning of Sept. 16, entangled in his own gill net. Now the sole proprietor of his late father's newspaper, Ishmael Chambers, maimed both physically and psychically fighting against the Japanese in the South Pacific, looks out at the storm, hoping it will "snow recklessly and bring to the island the impossible winter purity, so rare and precious, he remembered fondly from his youth."
But the war has taken a terrible toll on the human spirit, and memories of that desperate conflict have exacerbated the racial intolerance subtly present even before the war. This is most clearly evidenced in the testimony of Carl's mother, Etta Heine, whose act in denying the Miyomoto family ownership of their all-but-paid-for seven acres of strawberry fields is revealed as the first link in a decade-long chain of events that has now apparently culminated in Carl's death at the hands of Kabuo.
Though the courtroom setting defines the present in "Snow Falling on Cedars," David Guterson's finely wrought and flawlessly written first novel (he is the author of a book of short stories and a guide to home schooling), this meticulously drawn legal drama forms only the topmost layer of complex time strata, which Mr. Guterson proceeds to mine assiduously through an intricate series of flashbacks. Thus testimony slides ineluctably from merely verbal recollection into remembered incident into fully realized historical narrative -- past events told from the numerous characters' points of view with all the detail and intensity of lives being lived before our very eyes.
THE most immediate of these serial flashbacks recounts not only Sheriff Art Moran's investigation of the events surrounding Carl's death during the months preceding the trial, but also the personal histories of the people Moran has seen fit to interview and who are now being called as witnesses. Even minor characters -- Ole Jurgensen, present owner of the disputed seven acres; Horace Whaley, the coroner; Carl's wife, Susan Marie; Army Sgt. Victor Maples, who testifies to Kabuo's expertise in kendo, the ancient military art of the samurai warrior -- are dramatized well beyond their roles as participants in the trial.
Unlike many recent purveyors of courtroom calisthenics, Mr. Guterson does not stop there. Taking us back nearly a dozen years in both historical and personal time, he depicts the Allied invasion of the South Pacific island of Betio through the eyes of the 19-year-old Ishmael, as, lying gravely wounded on the beach, he sees the rest of his company wiped out, so that like his namesake he alone survives to tell the tale. Almost simultaneously, we accompany Hatsue and her family on their harrowing journey southward to California, and we share their deprivation and humiliation in the notorious internment camp of Manzanar, as well as the irony of Kabuo's turnabout military service fighting Germans in the European theater. Tunneling back even further, we witness Ishamel and Hatsue's secret meetings inside the hollow cedar, the development of their forbidden romance and its subsequent demise, adding emotional depth to their estrangement in the present.
As the exhaustive list of acknowledgments demonstrates, Mr. Guterson has done his homework on everything from autopsies to Zen Buddhism, taking on the enormous risk of crossing boundaries not just of time, but of sex and culture as well. The result is a densely packed, multifaceted work that sometimes hovers on the verge of digressiveness, but in Mr. Guterson's skilled hands never succumbs to the fragmentation that might well have marred such an ambitious undertaking. In fact, so compelling is the narrative that we almost lose sight of the central issue, which is, as the defense attorney Nels Gudmundsson reminds us in his summation, whether Kabuo Miyomoto is on trial for murder -- even worse, will be found guilty -- simply because he is Japanese.
Simply is not the right word. In a parallel to the case against Kabuo, the reader must sift back through the weight of the whole novel to determine not only whether Kabuo's accusation and trial are in fact racially motivated, but where the responsibility lies if this is in fact the case. Along with the clear manifestations of racism, there is enough evidence of people struggling with their own consciences, speaking out against prejudice, among them Ishmael's parents and Carl Heine's father, to support Hatsue's perception that "it isn't all of them" that hate.
The answer, finally, is equivocal at best. Is Kabuo's refusal to reveal his whereabouts on the fateful night a response to the prejudice he feels will condemn him out of hand, or a self-fulfilling prophecy that is in itself a form of racism? The key, Mr. Guterson seems to say, lies in the possibility of individual action. As Nels Gudmundsson instructs the jury: "Your task as you deliberate together on these proceedings is to insure that you do nothing to yield to a universe in which things go awry by happenstance. Let fate, coincidence and accident conspire; human beings must act on reason."
In a heart-stopping demonstration of this, fate, coincidence and accident do conspire to supply a crucial bit of last-minute evidence, requiring one of the actors in this drama to choose whether to act on reason and compassion, or, by giving in to hatred and anger, let accident rule every corner of the universe. Thus the mystery plays itself out, along with the storm, leaving the human heart to shake free, as the hardiest cedars shake free of snow, of the chill of hatred and war -- if it only will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: HARCOURT BRACE & CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WORLD WAR II (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (70%); MURDER (61%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (60%); MIGRANT WORKERS (51%); 

PERSON: KENNEY, SUSAN; GUTERSON, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



406 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 20; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Artists to Be Honored in Stamford Gala

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
AWARDS, awards, awards." Christopher Plummer was musing upon the meaning of them all, as if a revelation would rise up from the mere repetition.
A single Tony in 1974, one win out of four nominations, came as a vindication of sorts. A great classical actor had to tread the musical boards in a flop show in order to be acknowledged for a great Cyrano, previously done straight and more than once. The Tony was not for the seminal Iago that Walter Kerr, for one, termed "quite possibly the best single Shakespearean performance to have originated on this continent in our time." And forget that the best known role in Christopher Plummer's curious film career was not Oedipus or even Sherlock Holmes, but the chilly Baron von Trapp in "The Sound of Music." 
 After the Tony there was an Emmy for a mini-series, "The Moneychangers" in 1975 and before that, in Britain, an Evening Standard award for "Beckett" in 1962.
Not to mention the noncompetitive honors. In Austria, the Golden Badge. In Canada, his native land, an honorary knighthood. In Washington, D.C., the William Shakespeare Prize, presumably for a body of work encompassing Hamlet, Macbeth, Benedick, Henry V, Richard III. Et cetera. Et cetera.
And now in Connecticut: a Lifetime Achievement Award. Lifetime achievement? Is it time? Christopher Plummer at 64 is hardly on the wane. Where is Prospero? Lear? Henry Higgins? Another do re mi with Julie Andrews?
But this is by no means a "last legs" award, insisted the actor Keir Dullea, who headed the committee that thought up the first annual Connecticut Artist Awards as an ongoing opportunity to add to the coffers of Stamford Theater Works, a seven-year-old 150-seat not-for-profit regional theater with a $250,000 annual operating budget.
The award to Mr. Plummer is the centerpiece of an event to be held tomorrow night at the Palace Theater in Stamford at 8:30 P.M. "Connecticut has within its borders more artists per capita than any state," Mr. Dullea said, admitting that's just a hunch, but a most informed one.
As if opening the doors of the Connecticut Hall of Fame, the first notables to receive an inscribed award, designed for the occasion by Steuben Glass, are Theodore Bikel, Claire Bloom, Michael Bolton, Dave Brubeck, Howard Fast, June Havoc, Arthur Kopit, Gerry Mulligan, Lloyd Richards and Gene Wilder. Cory Donnalley, Robert Donnalley and Lucille Lortel will receive special awards. And Mr. Plummer stands assured by the event committee that he can indeed win the headline award more than once in his lifetime.
For Mr. Plummer, who lives in Weston, the newly established accolades have a genuine meaning beyond singular achievement.
"The nicest thing is that they're honoring artists living in a state that I do believe should have its own film industry and TV industry," he said. "It would be helpful by calling attention to that need, to its political and economic advantages -- and then I wouldn't have to go to the ends of the earth to go to work."
For information about remaining tickets, priced from $25 to $250, for tomorrow's gala emceed by Lucie Arnaz at the Palace Theater in Stamford, call 359-3452 or 359-4414. The most expensive tickets include admission to a banquet at 6 P.M. at the Hyatt Hotel in Greenwich; $100 tickets include a 7 P.M. reception at the theater.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The actor Christopher Plummer, who lives in Weston, will receive a Lifetime Achievement Award in Connecticut. (Chris Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (70%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (70%); AUSTRIA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (75%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); THEATER (57%); BUDGETS (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; PLUMMER, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



407 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: First Ski Show Coming to County Center

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
WHEN autumn comes, can winter be far behind? Unofficially, winter will make its debut in Westchester Oct. 28 to 30 at the New York Ski Show sponsored by Princeton Ski Shops at the County Center in White Plains.
"It's a first for Westchester," said Peter Makris, the show's coordinator and owner of the Princeton Ski Shop in Elmsford. "The show is patterned after the Giants Stadium Ski Show in New Jersey that we have been doing for 20 years. We've been wanting to duplicate the show in Westchester for years, but we couldn't find the appropriate space. Finally last year, we were able to book the County Center for the October dates, which kicks off this ski season. We are going all out to make the show an annual happening." 
 Skiers and would-be skiers, Mr. Makris said, will be able to take part in all of the activities at the show, including ski safety demonstrations on an indoor slope and snowboard expositions using snowboard simulators. "Ski experts from all the ski resorts and manufacturers from around the world will be on hand at the show giving out advice and successful ski tips," he said.
In addition to the exhibits by top ski resorts and equipment manufacturers, Mr. Makris said, skiing celebrities will make an appearance.
"Olympic Medalists Tommy Moe, Picabo Street and A. J. Kitt are coming to talk about their experiences at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway, with fans, and they will be signing autographs," Mr. Makris said. "There will also be skiing exhibitions and the showing of Warren Miller's latest ski film, 'Vertical Reality.' There will be something for the whole family: we will have a show within a show, which will be Children's Expo. We will have supervised free arcade games and clowns and prizes."
Last but not least, from Mr. Makris's perspective, is the opportunity to attract customers to look at $15 million worth of ski clothing and equipment from Princeton Ski Shops, which will be offered for sale at or below manufacturer's wholesale prices, with an additional 10 percent off to customers older than 65.
"Yes, we will be the only retail outlet on the floor," Mr. Makris said in answer to a question. "But we will also have invested $250,000 to mount the show, and even though exhibitors are paying for space and ticket sales at $5 each will help defray costs, we will still be happy to break even."
Describing the benefits gained from previous shows put on by Princeton Ski Shops, Mr. Makris said, "The bottom line is that ski shows generate interest and skiing and winter sports and as a result, all retail outfits in the industry, not only ours, gain customers."
He further observed that anything is welcome that can stimulate interest in an industry recovering from several disastrous years when the recession and bad weather flattened profits.
"Last winter the industry finally began to turn around, in large part due to the weather," Mr. Makris said. "We had almost too much snow, but it was cold and that was good. And also we benefited from a phenomenon called the snowboard."
A snowboard resembles a single water ski or a skateboard, Mr. Makris said. It is about 10 inches wide and 4 1/2 feet long, laminated like a ski, with plastic bindings mounted one behind another. Boards generally cost between $100 and $300 with an additional $100 for the bindings and another $100 for boots, which are similar to work boots. Not surprisingly, Mr. Makris added, most aficionados of the sport are younger than 25.
"It's a little hard on the knees," Mr. Makris conceded. "But it's the skateboard resemblance that appeals to that age group." Snowboarders, he added, ride lifts, go down mountains and trails just like skiers. "Great Gorge in New Jersey, for instance, has even built a snowboard park. Snowboards are currently the hottest product in the industry."
At Princeton Ski Shops, the emphasis is on superstores, with space of 25,000 square feet or more. Last year Princeton Ski Shops' three stores generated $25 million in revenues. In addition to the store in Elmsford, there are Princeton Ski Shops in Roslyn, L.I., and Clifton, N.J.
"In developing the superstore concept, we concentrated on two things," Mr. Makris said. "One was making the store a fun place. We have all the bells and whistles. People can actually try out the equipment. Sales people are all skiers who are able to then give sound advice. But the second thing, and maybe the most important factor, is our inventory, which is huge.
"When we designed the superstore, that was our initial priority: to be able to buy in volume in what has been traditionally a nonvolume business, to put out as much merchandise as we can. For instance, we stock 16,000 pairs of skis, demos from every ski manufacturer. And we just built a store within a store we call a boardinghouse, to display over 2,000 snowboards we carry. During the ski season, we have 25 people working on the selling floor."
Although the shops have a tennis court and a skating rink for in-line skates commonly known as Rollerblades, sales of winter sports equipment generate about 80 percent of Princeton Ski Shops' profits.
"Tennis is a faltering industry," Mr. Makris said. "The sport is not going the right way. The top players are lackluster, and fewer people are interested in playing. But in-line skates are something else. They are tremendously popular with young adults, so much so that sales of skates, which range in price from $100 t0 $300, are becoming important business for us."
Furthermore, "sales of Rollerblades have increased sales of ice skates," he added. "My explanation is that in-line skaters are taking to the ice in the winter because the technique is pretty similar."
Mr. Makris, 44, married with young children, lives in Greenburgh close to the Elmsford store. "That's the nature of the retail business," he said. "If you are going to be successful, you have to be on the job. In season, I'm in the store six and a half days a week."
His career, he said, was largely a matter of chance, not choice.
"It wasn't anything so exciting as a passion for skiing," he said. "Actually, it was proximity. That's how I got into the ski business. I was 19 years old, going to the R.C.A. Institute on 34th Street to become an electrical engineer, and I needed a part-time job. Princeton Skate and Ski Shop, as it was called then, was on 35th Street and Fifth Avenue. I passed the store every day, and they needed a part-time stock boy. So 25 years ago I took a part-time job, which was my first, and 14 years ago I was able to buy into the company."
Princeton, Mr. Makris recalled, was founded 75 years ago as a skate shop by Harry Carp. "Mr. Carp named the store Princeton because it had an upscale connotation. Eventually Mr. Carp's two sons, Morton and Jordan, took over the business, and it began to evolve into what it is today: stores that sell quality products with service at a price. But, like farmers, we are still captives of Mother Nature. Last year, for instance, there was almost too much snow. With 22 inches on the ground, skiers couldn't even drive to the slopes, but we sold a larger amount of winter clothing than usual, so it usually evens out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Princeton Ski Shops, which has an outlet in Elmsford, above and below, is sponsoring the New York Ski Show at the County Center. The exhibition will include demonstrations on ski safety and snowboarding, which is akin to skateboarding. (Photographs by Claire Yaffa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SKI SHOW; PRINCETON SKI SHOPS WARREN MILLER ENTERTAINMENT (53%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SKI SHOW; PRINCETON SKI SHOPS NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SKIING; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) SNOWBOARDING (91%); SKIING (91%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (88%); TRADE SHOWS (87%); OLYMPICS (86%); CELEBRITIES (86%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); WINTER OLYMPICS (78%); RESORTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SPORTS (65%); WHOLESALE PRICES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY PETER MAKRIS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



408 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 56; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: ANTIPOLITICS '94;
How Much Is His Fault?

BYLINE: By THOMAS E. CRONIN; Thomas E. Cronin is the author of several books on American politics, including "The State of the Presidency." He is the president of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.

 BODY:
Americans pick a President every four years," said Adlai Stevenson, "and for the next four years we pick him apart." It didn't take long for us to begin picking Bill Clinton apart, and we are showing no signs of letting up. Why are we being so tough on him? And, for that matter, why have we been so tough on most all of our recent Presidents?
Midterm elections are rarely America's finest hour. The guns of the out-of-office party pound away at the President. Then he fires back. This is, of course, part of the tribal ritual in which the "outs" trash the "ins" and the "ins" retaliate by castigating the obstructionist opposition, the mean-spirited media and the selfish special interests who are depicted, of course, as all thwarting "progress" -- progress, at least, as defined by those in the White House. 
 But this President-bashing of ours is, I think, about something more than "ins" and "outs." We beat up our Presidents because they invariably disappoint us. And they disappoint us precisely because we still hold exaggerated expectations of what Presidents might be able to achieve. While it is true that the mistakes and misdeeds of Vietnam, Watergate, Iran-contra and Whitewater have made us more skeptical about Presidents, we nevertheless continue to believe that the vitality of our constitutional democracy depends in large measure on creative Presidential leadership. The unwritten Presidential job description, the one we carry around in our heads, calls for a President to be a visionary problem-solver, a unifying force for the nation, a healer and sage. Thus, every four years we search anew for a fresh superstar who is blessed with the judgment of Washington, the brilliance of Jefferson, the genius of Lincoln, the political savvy of F. D. R. and the youthful grace of J. F. K. Expectations always rise. Yet an exaggerated sense of the possibilities of the perfect -- or what I have called our notion of "the textbook President" -- inevitably blind us to the limits of what a President can accomplish.
The novelist John Steinbeck put it as well as anyone when he wrote in the mid-1960's that "we give the President more work than a man can do, more responsibility than a man should take, more pressure than a man can bear. We abuse him often and rarely praise him. We wear him out, use him up, eat him up. . . . He is ours and we exercise the right to destroy him."
 CLINTON HAS MOST ASSUREDLY CONTRIBUTED TO HIS OWN PROBLEMS. He lacks discipline and focus. He vacillates and procrastinates. He tries to please everyone and he is a relentless spinmaster. His advisers don't inspire much confidence. He shoots himself in the foot. He plainly doesn't cultivate allies; he doesn't delegate enough; he doesn't laugh enough.
Yet Clinton has achieved more, both with regard to legislation and to foreign policy, than might have been expected of a President elected by 43 percent of the voters in a contest in which the electorate was voting Bush out, not embracing a Democratic platform. Clinton had virtually no mandate. Moreover, he came to office with more baggage -- his draft board controversy, Gennifer Flowers and so on -- than almost any President in modern times. He tries, justifiably, to claim credit for reducing the deficit, creating more jobs and overseeing the general recovery. Americans, however, are unwilling to give him much credit because they continue to fear the worst -- inflation, reduced purchasing power, job loss. Then there is the challenge of charting an appealing and coherent foreign policy in the post-cold-war era. Clinton has had successes in the Middle East; he has been steady with regard to Russia; he won passage of Nafta. But to get to the White House, Clinton concluded he had to talk tougher than his opponents about Bosnia, Haiti and China. What served Clinton well in winning the White House, however, is often making it hard for him to exercise effective leadership as the President. This campaign tough talk haunts him -- he has had to commit or waiver, and either way he's been hurt. With the cold war over, Americans are anxious and unsure about where and how they want their country to intervene.
Clinton gets a lot of unfavorable press. The media don't especially like or respect him. Reporters don't feel he levels with them, and members of the national press corps often felt Clinton did end runs around them in the 1992 campaign by going the talk-show route. But it is what Clinton hasn't done about his press relations that has probably hurt him most. He has not, despite his having tried several different press secretaries, chiefs of staff and P.R. handlers (like David Gergen), found anyone who speaks with authority for his Administration. (He gets precious little help from his Cabinet officers.) Moreover, there seems to be no one in the White House creatively capitalizing on good news, as there was in the Reagan and the Bush Administrations. For all the worrying about Clinton's image, there seems little effective effort to associate the President with achievement.
Clinton himself is an effective speaker and he would serve himself better if he had more J. F. K.-style news conferences. He has to counter the negative slant of most media stories by more effective use of the bully pulpit.
 ALTHOUGH CLINTON HAS doubtless created some of his own political problems, the larger ones are not of his making but of ours. In fact, all the heated midterm charges and countercharges mostly serve to distract us from appreciating certain enduring realities and fundamental characteristics of our relationship to political leadership.
Today, as ever, we tend to distrust Presidents because Presidents are a prime agent of the Federal Government. We don't like government much, and nowadays we dislike the Federal Government most of all. In times of popular war or dire economic crises, we can be aggressively led by a President, but generally we want a President to preside over and unify us. Further, we subject Presidents to many paradoxical and contradictory expectations -- making it hard for a President to remain popular for sustained periods.
Let's face it: Americans are lousy followers. We admire power, yet fear it. We like to unload responsibilities on our leaders, yet we dislike being bossed around. We celebrate the individual and the idea that one person can make a difference, yet we inherently suspect those who have made it to the top -- especially those at the top of large institutions.
Every President has to understand the fine line between providing strong, decisive leadership and infringing on the individual rights and liberties of the people. This ambivalence toward executive power is hardly new. The founders of the American Republic knew the new nation needed an office that could exercise leadership, yet they feared the development of a national leader who might incite the people and yield factious or demagogic government. So they wrote a Constitution that makes it possible but difficult for Presidents to exercise decisive leadership.
Alexis de Tocqueville said it well when he wrote that Americans sometimes yearn for leadership but that they also want to be free and left alone. Americans love their country and are highly patriotic. Yet we cherish individualism over collectivism and individual liberty over the rights of the state. We are a difficult people to lead in any predictable manner or direction.
One of the persisting paradoxes of the Presidency is that, on the one hand, it is always too powerful and, on the other, it is always too weak. It is too strong because in many ways it is contrary to our ideals of government by the people and decentralization of power. It is too weak because Presidents seldom are able to keep the promises they make (as on health care). And the Presidency is always too constrained when we believe a President is striving to serve the public interest -- as we define it.
We want dynamic, charismatic leadership. "We need leaders of inspired idealism," Teddy Roosevelt wrote. "Leaders to whom are granted great visions, who dream greatly, and strive to make their dreams come true, who can kindle the people with the fire from their own burning souls." However, we also want Presidents to heed our view.
We expect our Presidents to provide bold innovative, programmatic leadership, but expect them, too, to respond pragmatically to public opinion majorities.
We may want a certain amount of visionary innovation, yet Americans routinely resist being led too far in any one direction. Lead us, we say, but also listen to us.
While we want a President who can unify us, the job of being President requires taking firm stands on issues that frequently divide us.
Every now and then, we want change, yet we also fear it. Charlie Brown in the Peanuts cartoon once said, "I have my strong opinions -- but they don't last long." So American public opinion shifts -- sometimes quickly.
 THE PRESIDENCY WILL surely remain one of our nation's best sources for creative leadership. Indeed, a strong, effective President is a necessity if we are to make our system work. Hamiltonian energy in the Presidency is needed to make our Madisonian system of checks and balances work in such a way as to allow us to achieve those cherished Jeffersonian ends of liberty, freedom and social justice. The paradoxes of the Presidency do not lie in the White House so much as in our own feelings and exalted hopes. There continues to exist some element in the minds of Americans that it is possible to find a savior-hero who will deliver us to some promised land. And then when this pseudo-messiah fails us, we inflict upon him the wrath of our vengeance. It is almost a ritual purifying or savaging -- we venerate the Presidency and the White House though we punish the President. Perhaps this is to be expected when we elevate flawed and very human politicians who lust after fame and glory to an office we fill with our hopes and our fears and about which we remain of so many minds.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (57%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (57%); PURESPECTRUM INC (57%); STATON INSTITUTE INC (57%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); LEADERS AND LEADERSHIP MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CRONIN, THOMAS E BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



409 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Battle Over Leaf Blowers Broadens

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
JOSEPH TINELLI, who usually sees green this time of year -- turf green and money green, that is -- is seeing red instead. A landscape contractor in Yonkers for 33 years, he said he is fighting mad about the growing number of municipalities in the county adopting bans on leaf blowers.
"It's like taking away the saw from the carpenter," said Mr. Tinelli, the vice president of the New York Turf and Landscape Association, a Scarsdale-based trade organization representing 300 members in the county. "We are talking about an essential tool." 
 He asked rhetorically: "What do you do with a circular driveway? Sweep it with a broom?" Then he added, "We're going to have to tell our customers that if they want their properties manicured, it will have to be done by hand and at a price."
Gardeners use gasoline-powered leaf blowers in the fall and spring to clear dead leaves and at other times of the year to blow away grass clippings and debris. Mr. Tinelli predicted that if the blowers continued to be banned during the summer months, and their use sharply curtailed during peak leaf-blowing seasons, landscapers would have to revert to more labor-intensive methods like rakes and other non-powered tools -- and they would have to raise their rates.
Mr. Tinelli, who owns Tinelli Landscape Contractors, said the professional association would try to overturn the leaf-blower bans and had hired several lawyers to study the constitutionality of the ordinances.
But local leaf-blower regulations reflect a national trend, and to date there have been "just threats but no challenges to the law," said Dick Roberts, a lecturer on the subject and founder of Project Quiet Yards in Greenwich.
"What's happening in this part of the country is not unique," Mr. Roberts said.
The movement against leaf blowers began in Beverly Hills, Calif., about five years ago and has since moved across the country. Leaf blowers in that city and some other West Coast communities are banned year round.
In Westchester, landscape contractors are fighting hard to buck the growing tide. Mark Bellantoni, operations manager for Michael Bellantoni Inc., a family-owned landscape business in White Plains, helped organize a march on White Plains City Hall last month to protest a leaf-blower ban there. White Plains, joining other municipalities in the county, this year passed a trial ordinance banning leaf blowers from Aug. 15 through the end of September.
In a Sept. 20 demonstration, about 500 landscapers, gardeners and arborists from Westchester and neighboring counties marched up Main Street in White Plains and demanded an explanation of the law from Mayor Sy J. Schulman. But Mr. Bellantoni said City Hall turned a deaf ear to the landscapers' concerns.
"The Mayor refused to come out and speak to us," Mr. Bellantoni said. "He wouldn't even show respect for our side of the argument."
The Mayor, on the other hand, said he was open to hearing the gardeners' concerns and that he had invited Michael Bellantoni, president of the landscapers' group and the father of Mark Bellantoni, into his office to talk after the march.
Mayor Schulman said that even though his office had been inundated with citizen complaints about noise generated by the leaf blowers, he and the city's Common Council were receptive to both sides' points of view.
"We have never seen such a bipolar outpouring of feelings on an issue," said Mr. Schulman, who described the ongoing debate as "a symptom of modern society."
"This is not an easy issue," he said. "People get excited at both extremes. On the one hand, you have people objecting to the ban on the basis of an imposition of civil liberties. And then you have those who support the ban and think it's the greatest thing ever done by local government for their peace and sanity."
David Kahn, a principal consultant for Acoustic Dimensions -- a noise consulting firm in Mamaroneck -- said municipalities were increasingly addressing "quality-of-life issues like sound and noise."
"We are talking about noise pollution, health concerns, how a body responds to stress," he said. "Going along with the current thinking about what's important in life, citizens are demanding that governments focus on these issues, too."
In Scarsdale, where a ban on leaf blowers during the summer months was adopted earlier this year, the Deputy Village Manager, John N. Crary, said the Village Board was guided by quality-of-life issues.
"The noise is very loud and piercing," Mr. Crary said. "It's very intrusive." The village bans the use of leaf blowers in the summer months and limits hours of operation at other times of the year.
The principal physical injury from a leaf blower is to the operator's hearing, and ear protectors are recommended when using the equipment. Although the noise will not actually damage the hearing of those nearby, it nevertheless can "elicit a physiological response" from those within earshot, Mr. Kahn said. "People sometimes get so upset that they start screaming at their neighbors."
Mr. Roberts of Project Quiet Yards said the noise level of a leaf blower approaches 100 decibels, similar to that of a jet airplane taking off. He observed that sometimes landscapers operate two and three leaf blowers at one time, increasing the level that much more.
While some property owners have supported the landscapers' concerns and contest bans that could result in diminished services or price increases, others who oppose the use of leaf blowers say the time has come to return to a simpler, quieter -- and perhaps more ecologically sound -- life style.
A Larchmont resident, Glynne Woolfenden, who has been lobbying for stronger noise-control measures for several years, recalled that a decade ago "leaves were simply raked."
"Now that has all changed," she said. "People seem to think that every single leaf has to be blown away as though it is some kind of germ. That kind of thinking is so snooty, so manicured."
In Pelham -- where a law was recently passed allowing leaf blowers to be used only during the fall and early spring months -- William D. Tucker Jr., a retired lawyer, said that this summer was the first in more than a decade without the sound of leaf blowers in his neighborhood.
"It was an excellent summer," he said. "I can't tell you what a difference the ordinance has made in our lives. People can talk on their phones, work at home, hear themselves think. One person even said it was the first time in 15 years that he was able to use his porch."
And Mr. Roberts espoused an environmental approach, explaining that grass clippings are blown away primarily for esthetic reasons. Grass clippings add nitrogen to a lawn, he said, questioning why "everybody has to have their property so tidy looking."
In Larchmont, where the use of leaf blowers is limited to certain hours, Mayor Cheryl W. Lewy said that there were more artists, writers, psychologists and business people working at home since the recent recession and that noise-control ordinances should be developed to protect their right to make a living.
Larchmont, which is considering strengthening its ordinances, has also been meeting with members of the landscapers' organization in an attempt to forge a compromise, Mayor Lewy said. Mr. Tinelli, too, said members were eager to find a solution to the standoff. "We have no desire to be unreasonable," he said. "We need to make a living, but we are also willing to cooperate, although as a trade we are dealing with more restrictions than brain surgeons. We have Department of Transportation laws, pesticide regulations, county licensing, local licensing. It gets absurd."
He said the landscapers would consider using only one leaf blower on a property, instead of two or more at a time, and limiting their services to business hours.
Councilwoman Ruth F. Kitchen, a Democrat of New Rochelle, said her city was considering a leaf-blower ordinance, and that it would seek a solution "that was fair to all sides" -- probably a summertime ban and limited use in the fall and early spring.
"We don't have any objection to using the machine for leaves. It's their use on grass and dirt the rest of the year that bothers us," she said.
Mrs. Kitchen also said she would seek a countywide solution to leaf-blower noise because "the piecemeal efforts of the separate municipalities were not enough."
County Legislator George S. Latimer, Democrat of Rye, said, however, that the Board of Legislators did not have the power to implement a countywide ban on leaf blowers. That notwithstanding, the Board recently passed a resolution calling for more Federal noise controls on gardening equipment.
"Congress needs to look at regulating equipment at the point of manufacture," Mr. Latimer said.
Meanwhile in Rye, where city leaders eschewed the legal route, a different approach was being taken to the leaf-blower problem.
"We decided not to adopt a law," City Manager Frank J. Culross said. "We are encouraging voluntary compliance."
The City Council agreed that neighbors should encourage each other to ask their landscapers to cut back on the noise made by leaf blowers.
Or as Councilwoman Rosamond W. Larr, Republican-Conservative, explained it: "We are taking a civilized approach to the problem. The thought is that if I call the police because my neighbors broke the law, do you think I would ever be able to talk to them again? Would we ever be able to live together as neighbors? Working together, we should be able to solve the problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In White Plains, above, and other communities, use of leaf blowers is being restricted. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TINELLI LANDSCAPE CONTRACTORS THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TINELLI LANDSCAPE CONTRACTORS

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEAVES LANDSCAPING SERVICES (91%); ORDINANCES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TRENDS (72%); MANUAL HAND TOOLS (70%); LAWYERS (66%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; TINELLI, JOE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



410 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: The Brief Half-Life Of Celebrity

BYLINE: By NEAL GABLER; Neal Gabler is the author of "Winchell: Gossip, Power and the Culture of Celebrity," being published this month.

 BODY:
WALTER WINCHELL. THERE WAS a time when that name would have hit the ear with the same crisp report as Garbo, Cagney, Bogart or Presley. It was a name that once would have instantly conjured the image of a bantam in a snap-brim gray fedora and summoned a voice, high and staccato, firing words like a tommy-gun. Every American knew Winchell. His syndicated gossip column and weekly radio broadcast reached an estimated 50 million readers and listeners out of an adult population of roughly 75 million. He starred in movies, inspired songs, stirred controversies. He was at the very apex of celebrity.
Today, less than 25 years after his death, Winchell is one of a legion of celebrities who were once household names and then faded into oblivion -- people like the playboy Mdivani brothers, the journalist Arthur Brisbane, the movie stars Tommy Meighan and Tom Mix, even the cracker-barrel wit Will Rogers, who is remembered now more as the protagonist of the Broadway musical "The Will Rogers Follies" than as one of America's top movie box-office attractions and leading political pundits. 
 Celebrities are hardly an endangered species; there are more of them these days than ever before. But the lives of most celebrities, like that of Walter Winchell, are parables of perishability. No matter how deeply one seems to have stuck in the national consciousness, time can always unstick him. Today it is Walter Winchell who is a cultural footnote. Twenty years from now it may be Madonna, Tom Cruise, Rush Limbaugh or, quite possibly, all three of them.
What unsticks them is the question. The most obvious answer is that it is a matter of numbers. For decades, an ever-expanding pool of celebrities has been competing for a finite public attention. So long as American culture remained regionalized and so long as high culture was our only national culture, the pool was relatively small -- mainly politicians, war heroes, the odd baseball player and entertainer. But demographic and social changes gave rise to a new sense of cultural democracy in the 1920's as ethnic, minority and urban Americans began demanding a larger voice in shaping their world. Business happily complied by providing the instruments for a popular culture: movies, national magazines, radio, tabloids.
The rise of mass media immediately generated a class of national celebrity -- names and faces desperately needed to fill the maws of the new media and keep audiences interested. Viewed as the first shared references in our mass culture, celebrities constituted a kind of American repertory company in which a Charles Lindbergh or a Mae West could always be counted upon to attract readers. Viewed in more ruthless economic terms, these movie stars, athletes, artists, journalists and socialites were human commodities, if not quite manufactured for the purpose of tantalizing us with their escapades, at least seized upon and exploited for that purpose.
By the late 20's dozens of these celebrities had appeared on the national screen. But celebrities spawned by the mass media to sell papers, magazines and films were obviously different from those who had achieved fame before the advent of mass media. Some 30 years ago in his book "The Image," the historian Daniel J. Boorstin defined the basic difference as that between well-knownness for its own sake (modern celebrity) and fame as the product of greatness (old-fashioned heroism). "The hero was distinguished by his achievement," wrote Mr. Boorstin, "the celebrity by his image or trademark." Or, in Mr. Boorstin's now oft-quoted statement, "The celebrity is a person who is known for his well-knownness."
A STRIKING CASE IN POINT IS Peggy Hopkins Joyce. In the 30's and 40's, the shapely Joyce was probably as widely known as any entertainer, politician or athlete, though she was none of these. She had enjoyed a brief career as a showgirl and an even briefer one in movies, but her real claim to fame was as a bride. Running away from home with a vaudeville bicyclist at 15, she was married at 16, then again a few years later to a Washington socialite, then to a Chicago lumberman who granted her $1.4 million in jewelry at their divorce, then to a Swedish nobleman, then to an English engineer and finally to an American banker. Marrying was about all she did, but it was enough to make her a fixture in gossip columns, tabloids and magazines.
In Mr. Boorstin's postulation, fame rooted in achievement is enduring; to this day, we remember the great athletes of yesteryear. By the same token, one could have predicted that Joyce would be forgotten, no matter how famous she was in her own time, because her fame wasn't tethered to any recognizable accomplishment. Or rather it was tethered to a very different kind of accomplishment: being famous.
Though Mr. Boorstin and others chalk modern celebrity up to media manipulation that hoodwinks the public, Americans early on came to appreciate that a Joyce or later a Madonna had indeed achieved something in wresting fame from the system. To do so took publicity, wiles, luck, maybe even a certain talent. Perhaps more important, the public also understood that if this wasn't quite comparable to writing a novel or hitting a home run, the end results at least were all pretty much the same. It's not what you've done to make the cover of People; it's just making the cover that counts.
Here is where heroism and celebrity collapse into each other. In a society where fame is the end and where the means are largely irrelevant, fame paradoxically functions as a kind of equalizer. It reduces all celebrities, those who have achieved something and those who have achieved absolutely nothing, to the same valence -- a Will Rogers and a Peggy Hopkins Joyce, a Norman Schwarzkopf and a Kato Kaelin.
This is how I suspect most people regard celebrities now. They see them as people who take the national stage, do their act and leave, invited to return only when they have something new to perform. This permits a lot of individuals to get a shot -- ours is certainly the first generation in which hair stylists and diet gurus can be famous -- but it virtually guarantees a short run. Once you've achieved fame, you've reached the summit. The rest is all downhill.
What that means is that celebrities, like other commodities, have a built-in obsolescence -- an obsolescence that is only hastened by the ways fame is purveyed. Nowadays we almost always think of the famous in terms of images. In fact, we are encouraged to think of them that way because it is the images of them that sell them: scenes from movies, photos in newspapers and magazines, videotape on the evening news. (It is also why celebrity photographers like Annie Leibovitz and Herb Ritts command the salaries they do.) But images are disposable. New images are constantly shunting old ones aside, not only in the media but more important, in our minds. Modern visual media leave few imprints.
Some observers, of course, would say that this is because canny merchandisers are baiting us with the new hot thing. In truth, though, we may want to forget because to do so is central to the function of celebrity in our own lives. One reason we read gossip, scavenge tabloids, watch "Hard Copy" or pore through Vanity Fair, one reason we care about celebrities at all, is so we can feel as if we are in the know, part of the national loop. It is a means of asserting our worth, as if knowing who the newest celebrity is gives us one up on those who don't know.
Naturally this puts a heavy premium on a fresh supply of celebrities to help keep us ahead of the curve. Old ones get stale or become passe. Dead ones usually disappear entirely. (MTV declares itself "the essence of new" in a recent ad campaign, playing to the same impulse.) The bonus is that by seeming to anoint new celebrities and banish many of the old from the media spotlight, the public not only feels knowing, it gets the exhilaration of seeming to exercise power over the culture. The public giveth and the public taketh away. It is the only way we can redress the imbalance between the famous and ourselves.
So a Burt Reynolds fades from view and a Jason Priestley rises, a Debbie Harry fades and a Madonna rises, a Phyllis Diller fades and a Roseanne rises. It is a constant process and a constant challenge for us to keep up with it. It is not, however, a wholly capricious process in which one celebrity is just as good as another. There is a kind of instinct at work -- one that recognizes certain personalities as emblematic. Even evanescent celebrities like Peggy Hopkins Joyce or the 30's debutante Brenda Frazier, whose only talent was her stylishness, get their moment because they refract something about the culture, reify some hope, dream or aspiration.
IN JOYCE'S CASE SHE PROVIDED the country with a vicarious, lascivious thrill by openly tweaking conjugal conventions when most Americans couldn't. In Rogers's case, he projected mythical American values of common sense and decency so important to a nation suffering self-doubt during the Depression. And in Winchell's case, by annoying the establishment with his gossip and by excoriating bureaucrats, he made himself a symbol of two-fisted populism.
When times change, when values change, the most famous figures can be rendered anachronistic and discarded like human zoot suits. Rogers's aw-shucks style, which played so well in the 30's, seemed corny just a few years after his death, just as Winchell's populism, once so puckishly delightful, seemed bitter and mean when it was curdled by postwar Red-baiting. Although Winchell's profound influence on the media remained, his image vaporized.
As the wheel keeps turning, the celebrities who last -- and there are very few of them -- are not necessarily those whose achievements are the greatest. (I suspect Charles Lindbergh will barely be remembered several generations from now.) They are the ones who manage to embody something so timeless and transcendent that they are beyond fashion, beyond the loop, beyond celebrity. They are individuals whose images stubbornly refuse to yield to the new -- people like Fred Astaire and Babe Ruth and Ernest Hemingway. Their images freeze in our consciousness while the parade of lesser celebrity continues on its way to obscurity.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The gossip columnist Walter Winchell in 1968 -- Once, every American knew his name. (Associated Press) (pg. 1); "Just Memories" -- The one-time showgirl Peggy Hopkins Joyce, left, circa 1932 (Pach Brothers); above, the 1930's film star Tommy Meighan in the film "The Alaskan, (Wide World)" and right, Brenda Frazier as a debutante in 1938 (Phyfe) -- Certain personalities refract something about the culture
or embody some hope
or dream. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); MUSIC (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); WRITERS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); MOVIE REVENUES (70%); ETHNICITY (62%); BASEBALL (61%); THEATER (55%); 

PERSON: GABLER, NEAL; WINCHELL, WALTER (1897-1972) MADONNA (79%); TOM CRUISE (55%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



411 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: He Could Not Tell a Lie

BYLINE: By James Carroll; James Carroll, writer in residence at Emerson College in Boston, is the author of nine novels, most recently "The City Below." His op-ed column on politics and culture appears weekly in The Boston Globe.

 BODY:

WHAT I LIVED FOR
By Joyce Carol Oates.
608 pp. New York:
A William Abrahams Book/
Dutton.
$23.95. 
 JOHN GARDNER once said that a novel is a vivid and continuous dream. In "What I Lived For," Joyce Carol Oates has written a vivid and continuous nightmare: a savage dissection of our national myths of manhood and success, a bitter portrait of our futile effort to flee the weight of the past, a cold-eyed look at our loss of community and family, a shriek at the monsters men and women have become to each other and a revelation of our desolate inner lives. "What I Lived For" is an American "Inferno."
The novel is set in Union City, a fictional place on the New York shores of Lake Erie, something like Buffalo. It tells the story of Jerome (Corky) Corcoran, a two-bit politician and businessman. Though the book opens with the murder of Corky's father in 1959, the bulk of the action takes place over one long weekend in 1992. A lost weekend, it begins when Corky learns that his lover, Christina Kavanaugh, has been conducting their affair with the permission of her crippled husband, a discovery that shatters Corky's ego and sets him ricocheting all over the city, from one reversal to another, following a zigzag course through layers of social class, racial division, political machination and economic distress.
Ms. Oates has constructed a complex plot, with the apparent suicide of a young black woman, Marilee Plummer, at its center. Corky was acquainted with Marilee, and she was a friend of his grown stepdaughter, Thalia. But she was also involved somehow with Corky's mentor, the Mayor, Oscar Slattery, and with Corky's best friend, the Mayor's son and the local Congressman, Vic Slattery. The novel derives its thumping energy from Corky's inept, drunken, miserable effort to find out the truth of what happened to Marilee, and he does. But in Ms. Oates's boldly inventive narrative, the structure of this straightforward mystery is transformed into art of another order entirely, an exemplary work of moral investigation.
The novel unfolds through Corky's interior monologue, which gives the story its form, punch, immediacy and meaning. Ms. Oates has created a pithy, original voice for her protagonist, a kind of scat prose that is poignant, often hilarious, always credible. She begins by giving us a man's habits of perception and ends by giving us his soul. The effect of this device is to make even crucial turns of the plot available to the reader only indirectly. To Corky's clouded and increasingly panicked mind, the other characters are as elusive as shadows on the wall of a cave -- and that is how they appear to the reader. "What's it mean, Corky hasn't a clue," Ms. Oates writes early on. "He's not a guy comfortable inside his own head." But before long the reader is. And soon -- here is one of the novel's marvels of subtlety -- we know by implication and suggestion more about "what's it mean" than Corky does.
I confess that because the bound galleys touted "What I Lived For" as a daring portrait of male sexuality, I brought a suspension of disbelief to the novel somewhat unwillingly. Could the ever-versatile Joyce Carol Oates successfully ground a major work in the befuddled inner life of a middle-aged, urban, male Irish Catholic? I wondered. And, sure enough, Corky's lusty frenzy at first seemed created according to an abstract, wholly pejorative idea of American maleness, one rooted in the pages of Playboy (a magazine to which, in fact, Corky makes steady reference).
Was it Corky who had shaped his attitudes and self-image according to the hackneyed, pathetic Hefner ideal -- or was it Ms. Oates, an author taking aim at a straw manhood? The early sex scenes between Christina and Corky, for example, are written with a euphemistic and puerile gusto -- "Corky's body flames up, he turns to ashes" -- and read like clips from a skin magazine's fantasy page. I might have more quickly trusted Ms. Oates's sardonic purpose, her skewering of the Playboy myth, but I was thrown off by the publisher's note that first serial rights of this novel were sold, lo and behold, to Playboy. Who's being had here? Hugh Hefner or me? But that uncertainty was quickly resolved as the consciousness of Corky Corcoran asserted itself, an irresistible accumulation of fragmentary thoughts, feelings and sensations, all rendered with such skill that the world of the novel was soon brought exactly to life.
When he was 11 years old, Corky witnessed the murder of his father. He hadn't actually seen the faces of the killers, but the police knew who they were and told the boy to identify them anyway. His family wanted him to do it, and surely so did the ghost of his father. But young Corky could not, and that inability comes to seem the very definition of failure, haunting him as an adult and putting him, on the cursed weekend of the novel's action, in mortal danger. "And why wasn't he strong enough, why wasn't it in him. To identify his father's murderers with a simple lie." Especially him, for whom deception of self and others has become a way of life.
THE answer to that question is the resolution of the novel, a ringing affirmation of the most basic law of private and public morality and also of fiction: that character is destiny. To follow the drama of Corky Corcoran's tour through the circles of contemporary America's hell is to move from the pity one feels at witnessing the acute suffering of the damned to the fear one feels on realizing that this doom belongs to all of us. The catharsis Ms. Oates achieves in this novel springs from the recognition -- ours, not Corky's -- that this blind, drunken, skittish human pinball game has in fact been an arrow-straight moral odyssey, aimed at the truth. The boy who doomed himself by refusing to lie has become a man whose commitment to that most basic virtue may not have been entirely lost. When it threatens to cost him everything, we are heartbroken and we are thrilled.
In her 24th novel, Joyce Carol Oates has written an engrossing, moving study of desperate, lonely and lost souls, of America itself in the midst of its decline. One may approach "What I Lived For," as I did, with a certain skepticism, but in the reading it grows and grows, accumulating authority, picking up pace and finally leaving the reader awed -- at this writer's achievement, yes, but also, and more forcefully, at the surviving human capacity for doing what is right.
 
 
 
TOO QUIET FOR DEATH
 Sean Corcoran lurched to his feet. He came to squat clumsily in front of Jerome who shrank from him fearful of being struck but his uncle was sobbing, as a man sobs, not in sorrow but in anger, and in the befuddlement of anger, crushing Jerome in his embrace. His breath was like fumes. His arms were hard, tight, desperate. "They killed Tim Corcoran, shot him down like a dog. . . ."
It went on like this for some time, Christmas Day of 1959.
You would not guess a man had died in so quiet a setting. The snow again falling, thicker now, like sleep coming on.
Always Jerome Corcoran would recall how nothing that is has the power to evoke what was.
How Time, not like a clock's hands that circle the hours forever, runs in one direction only. Like a river, or an arrow. The trajectory of a bullet.
Though Tim Corcoran had tried, taking Jerome each Memorial Day to Our Lady of Mercy Cemetery where for an hour or more father and son would move along the rows of markers sticking six-inch American flags into graves of veterans. . . . What strange faltering uncharacteristic language issued from the elder man's mouth, what vague strickenness of manner came over him as at no other time, the child tried not to contemplate. He loved Daddy . . . but the embarrassment and tedium of Memorial Day chafed at him like the scratchiest of woolen shirts.
And now, the snow falling upon the fan-shaped front stoop of 8 Schuyler Place which had been scrubbed clean of Tim Corcoran's blood and which no one would cross, leaving the house by the side door, to be driven to the funeral.
The snow falling, flakes the size of blossoms, into the park across the street.
 From "What I Lived For."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHAT I LIVED FOR (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); LAKE ERIE (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LAKE ERIE (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); STEPPARENTS (50%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: CARROLL, JAMES; OATES, JOYCE CAROL JAMES M OATES (92%); JOHN WILLIAM GARDNER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



412 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: As Farmland Shrinks, Crop Yields Increase

BYLINE: By LEO H. CARNEY 

DATELINE: TABERNACLE

 BODY:
DESPITE a continuing decline in overall farmland acreage, New Jersey's fruit and vegetable growers have remained productive. So much so, in fact, this year's cranberry harvest seems sure to set a record when it is completed in a week or so, growers and agriculture officials say.
Interviews with the growers and agriculture experts showed that the only disagreement was over the size of the record for the cranberry industry, which has been concentrated in the heart of the Pine Barrens since before the Civil War. Estimates range from 480,000 barrels to 540,000 barrels. The record of 478,000 barrels was set in 1992. 
 Dr. Nicholi Vorsa, a plant scientist and director of the Rutgers University Blueberry and Cranberry Research Center, in nearby Chatsworth, said that the crop, at roughly 50 cents a pound, would bring growers $20 million to $25 million in receipts this year, compared with $18.4 million last year.
While cranberries and some other crops are doing well this year, farmland in the state has declined at a rate of 5,000 acres a year since 1990, officials say. But that loss of 20,000 acres is actually an improvement over the 1980's. Back then, housing development and corporate construction were consuming farmland at the rate of 300 to 400 farms and 20,000 acres a year, according to the Crop Reporting Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Robert Battaglia, the chief state statistician for the service in Trenton, said the recession of the late 1980's and the real estate slump since then has led to the lower losses of this decade.
In 1985, the service reported there were 8,700 farms and 940,000 acres of farmland in the state. By 1986, those figures were 8,300 farms and 920,000 acres. In 1990, there were still 8,300 farms, but only 880,000 acres, reflecting an emerging trend of fewer large farms and more "hobby" farms. Hobby farms, Mr. Battaglia said, are holdings of one to nine acres, usually operated by part-time farmers, some of whom, like the full-time farmers, receive tax breaks under state's special farmland assessment.
The number of farms reported in June by the Department of Agriculture was 8,560, but Mr. Battaglia said that figure included 2,099 hobby farms. He said the more meaningful figure was the total farm acreage, 860,000.
Nevertheless, Mr. Battaglia said, high-yield farming techniques have allowed New Jersey to remain productive with fewer acres and to retain national standing in some categories. For example, he said, the peach harvest of 83 million pounds this year was down from 90 million pounds last year but brought farmers a good return and a rank of fourth in the nation, behind California, South Carolina and Georgia.
The failure of two New Jersey competitors meant better prices for New Jersey peach growers despite lowered production, Mr. Battaglia said. Pennsylvania lost almost its entire crop of peaches and Virginia half of its crop, thereby increasing demand, he said.
"Often it is not the acreage alone that spells success but production times price that makes a good year," Mr. Battaglia said. "Sometimes a farmer can have a bad year but get more money for the crop if he is at the market at the right time and when the price is right."
The state's apple industry continues to recover from 1992, when it produced only 55.9 million pounds. This year's anticipated crop of 74 million will be below last year's 75 million pounds, but these figures are only a shadow of what had been a larger industry in the early 1980's.
"There have been fewer and fewer acres of apples because it is so hard for growers to compete with Washington, Michigan and New York," Mr. Battaglia said.
Neva Moore, a farmer in this Burlington County community, said that the bumper cranberry crop was attributable to "an excellent bee pollination last summer, a heavy bloom and a good fruit set." Cool nights have given the tart red berries the rich color that processors want for the best juices, whole sauces and jellied sauces, Mrs. Moore said.
Like other growers, Mrs. Moore and her husband, Sam, have been busy day and night with the hectic work of harvesting their bogs as the fruit becomes ripe. The harvest began at the start of this month; it is now past its peak and will probably be finished by the end of the month.
"The early yields look like it will be about 500,000 barrels," Dr. Vorsa said during a break from the center's own harvesting schedule. The American Growers Association has estimated a nationwide harvest of 540 thousand barrels, which is 54 million pounds and a 13 percent increase over 1992. The association is based here and its members are all New Jersey growers.
"We are expecting a bumper crop this year," said Robert Stambaugh, the plant manager for Ocean Spray in Bordentown. Most growers belong to the Ocean Spray cooperative and sell their harvests to the company.
Ocean Spray maintains a receiving station in Chatsworth where the farmers bring their product. Processing a batch of juices, sauces and jellies in Bordentown takes about three hours, Mr. Stambaugh said, and the company will put out about 15 million cases of juices and 2 million cases of sauces and jellies in the coming year, using this year's harvest.
Seventy percent of Ocean Spray's cranberries come from New Jersey and 30 percent from Massachusetts and Wisconsin, he said. According to the New Jersey Department of Agriculture, the state ranks third in the nation in cranberry growing, behind Massachusetts and Wisconsin, which are first and second.
"Year after year, cranberries have been more steady than any crop we grow," said Arthur R. Brown Jr., the state's Secretary of Agriculture.
One of the few native American fruits grown in New Jersey, the cranberry, Dr. Vorsa said, is dependent upon bees to pollinate it between mid-June and mid-July. This is when the female part of the plant can accept pollen. Growers rent hives of honeybees, usually one hive an acre, to get the job done.
Honey bees become lethargic and hive-bound during cold or rainy weather, so a potentially good crop requires warm, dry weather during this brief period, he said.
Cranberry bushes are cultivated in large, meadowlike depressions called bogs. Flooded with hundreds of thousands of gallons of water drawn from aquifers below, the ripened berries float on the surface of the pools that form, then are megathered by hand and machine. Because the bogs are spongy and underlain by porous, sandy soil, the water that is not evaporated eventually drains into the soil and recharges the aquifers.
The Cutts Brothers Farm takes in the home farm in Tabernacle, as well as 80 acres of cranberry bogs that Bill and Ginger Cutts and their family lease from the state in Bass River Township, a half hour away. During the monthlong harvest season, Mr. Cutts and his relatives camp out in a cinderblock cabin in the woods until the picking is done.
"We are doing a lot better than in 1992," Mrs. Cutts said as she prepared to visit her husband on a recent weekend. The family harvest this year of 18,000 to 20,000 barrels will be enough to support five Cutts families, she said, as well as providing incomes for five laborers hired to help bring in the berries.
The research center in Chatsworth is supported by $1.5 million a year that comes from state and Federal governments, Ocean Spray and the growers association. Mrs. Cutts said that it was difficult to say how much of a successful harvest is due to nature and how much to improved techniques.
"Some of the research is so new," she said, "that you do not always know where the credit belongs."
In 1986 farming produced $600 million in cash receipts, which increased to $650 million in 1990 and $706.2 million last year. Carol Shipp, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Agriculture, said that an expanded nursery industry, which is considered part of the farming community, has contributed significantly to the cash totals since the 1980's.
This year's blueberry crop of 29 million pounds was down from the 34 million produced last year. The decline was mostly attributed to damaging hailstorms in Atlantic and Gloucester Counties last summer. Heavy rains in other blueberry counties also wiped out potential yields. But, Mr. Battaglia said, there was an abundance of stored frozen blueberries from last year that farmers used to make up for some of the fresh blueberry losses.
Estimated at $30 million, the blueberry crop in New Jersey will probably rank second in the nation this year, behind Michigan and ahead of Oregon.
Most planted vegetable acreage was down slightly from last year, but Dale King, a state statistician who works with Mr. Battaglia, said that sweet corn, cucumbers and summer squash did well. Bell peppers could have done better. "It was a pretty good year for peppers." Mr. King said, "but the weather was too wet in some areas of the state in late July when they were picking."
Like many farmers, Skeeter Kielblock, the manager of Hillview Farms in Myersville, has turned to diversity and roadside marketing to insure the longevity of the family-owned enterprise, now in its fifth generation. The Kielblocks own 57 acres and rent 50 more nearby in Morris County. They raise two or three plantings a year of corn, peppers, pumpkins, tomatoes, apples, peaches, blueberries and raspberries. The farm is a pick-your-own that also has a roadside stand, all of which keeps prices down and volume high.
Mr. Kielblock said that the sweet corn yields have been "great," but that it was a rough year for pumpkins. "It was too rainy toward the middle and end of the season," he said, "and the pumpkins developed fungus and had to be sprayed a lot."
Although farm acreage throughout the state generally has been disappearing, Dr. Vorsa, and Dale King of the Crop Reporting Service, said that cranberry acreage had increased from 3,000 acres in 1960 to 3,200 acres in 1984, and to 3,400 acres this year.
The news is not all good, though. Mr. Battaglia said that there was concern among growers that expanding the industry further in the environmentally sensitive and highly regulated Pine Barrens region may prove too slow and arduous to adequately compete with other states in the years ahead. Wisconsin, a state with plentiful land, is expanding its cranberry acreage at a greater rate than New Jersey.
"There will be big competition from Wisconsin," Mr. Battaglia said, "and growers there may really overtake us in the next few years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, farm workers direct cranberries onto a conveyor belt. At left, customers are driven to an orchard where they will pick their own apples. (Pg. 1); At the cranberry farm of Neva and Sam Moore in Tabernacle, workers are busy harvesting the crop; At the Rutgers Blueberry and Cranberry Research Center in Chatsworth, Richard Novy, a post doctoral fellow, uses DNA for varietal identification. (Pg. 19) (Photographs by Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CROP REPORTING SERVICE (65%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FRUIT; VEGETABLES BERRY FARMING (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOTANY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: CARNEY, LEO H ROBERT BATTAGLIA (90%); NEVA MOORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



413 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
GERMAN LEADER HOLDING ON
With 100 percent of the vote counted in German elections, Chancellor Helmut Kohl suffered heavy losses but his coalition held on to a narrow majority. A1 

SERVING SOUTH AFRICAN CHANGE
Since South Africa's democratic system began, there has been little change for domestic servants. There are new laws to protect them, but little enforcement. A1
 
U.N. WARNING TO IRAQ
The United Nations resolution condemning Iraq's troop movements toward Kuwait sent a clear message that other nations would come together to oppose aggression. A10
 
Iraq indicated its willingness to go along with the U.N. A10
 
For two wars, the problem is getting there. A9
 
Iraq appeared to be moving back its forces. A10
 
ATTACK MARS ARISTIDE RETURN
Paramilitary gunmen killed two supporters of the Haitian President, marring his homecoming as he worked on his first full day home to put his Government in order. A3
 
Haitian businesses were trying to gear up for a new era. A3
 
ISRAEL TALKS TO RESUME
Israel said that it will resume its talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization, a sign that it would not let a terrorist kidnapping deflect efforts for peace. A11
 
Palestinians view the kidnapping from a different perspective. A11
 
Egyptian killed and seven held in hunt for novelist's attackers. A11
 
MENDING FENCES WITH CHINA
Defense Secretary William J. Perry visited the Chinese military, against a backdrop of expanding economic relations and American disapproval of Chinese weapons sales. A8
 
A WATCHDOG DELAYED
Nine months after the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect, a side pact intended to protect the environment has shown virtually no results. D1
 
The expected North Korean leader finally appeared in public. A8
 
Concern about Russian airline safety standards. A5
 
Kigali Journal: A war that shook people's faith. A4
 
National A12-15, B8-10
 
NEW JOBS, BETTER PAY
The belief that the economy cannot deliver the higher pay that U.S. workers want may need revising: Most jobs added in the last two and a half years are in occupations that pay more than the average. A1
 
G.E. TO SELL KIDDER, PEABODY
General Electric has reached an agreement in principle to sell the bulk of its Kidder, Peabody subsidiary to the Paine Webber Group in a $670 million deal that would create the nation's fourth-largest brokerage firm, people involved in the negotiations said. A1
 
RUNNING TO REAGAN
Republican candidates around the country are moving to the right and invoking the spirit of former President Ronald Reagan. A1
 
CAMPAIGN AGAINST CYNICISM
An Episcopalian minister and Harvard Divinity School teacher, Bob Massie, has been waging a no-frills campaign as the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor with an unusual tactic -- speaking from the heart. B8
 
CLINTON RESHAPES COURTS
Given an opportunity to choose more Federal judges in his first two years than any President in history, President Clinton has made selections praised for their diversity but not expected to alter the ideological character of the Federal judiciary. A15
 
AUDIT OF FEDERAL AUDITORS
An independent panel of experts said the Government's watchdog agency, the General Accounting Office, is straying from its original fact-finding mission and is becoming an advocate for policy changes. B10
 
PRISON FOR THE WORST
A pastel penitentiary will open its steel doors next month to close them behind the 400 inmates deemed the worst in the Federal prison system. A1
 
BOOM IMPORTED FROM ASIA
A smoggy corner of Los Angeles County, the San Gabriel Valley, has found, quite by chance, a reliable economic engine in large-scale investment from Asia. A12
 
ALLEGATIONS ON DENVER AIRPORT
A former construction inspector at the new Denver airport revealed photographs of potentially dangerous construction that the head of the airport building team acknowledged could show some severe problems. A12
 
HEART DRUG DANGER FOUND
Two studies have uncovered an unacceptably high incidence of paralyzing and fatal strokes from the widely used drug heparin. The studies reached that conclusion in April, but doctors are being told of it only today. A14
 
TOTEMS RETURN HOME
After an effort to buy carvings considered a prize work of art and a 10-year legal battle resisting the sale, the totems have been brought back the home village of the Tlingit clan they belong to. But they now sit unseen in a storage shed. B10
 
Gay sailor claims a victory as court case deadline passes. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
WOOING THE UNDECIDED
As New York's gubernatorial campaign enters its final phase, strategists say a key question is whether Gov. Mario M. Cuomo can discredit State Senator George E. Pataki in the minds of undecided voters. A1
 
Sports C1-10
 
Basketball: Bad back may cost Anthony. C3
 
Carlesimo makes debut. C3
 
Columns: Anderson on Jets. C5
 
Football: Jets hold off Patriots. C1
 
Giants lose to Rams. C1
 
Dolphins beat Raiders in sudden death. C6
 
Chargers go 6-0. C6
 
49ers crush Falcons. C8
 
Penn State now No. 1. C8
 
Cowboys defeat Eagles. C9
 
Hockey: Owners don't understand why players don't understand. C2
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Preserving great art. C11
 
Theater: "Unexpected Tenderness." C14
 
Music: Premiere of Glass's Second Symphony. C11
 
Dance: Australian Ballet. C11
 
Books: "The Western Canon," by Harold Bloom. C15
 
Television: "Party of Five." C16
 
"Wild Child" on "Nova." C16
 
Obituaries B11
 
Business Digest D1
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Will workfare work?
 
Cameras in the Simpson trial.
 
Restart Indonesia rights clock.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Can peace survive?
 
William Safire: What to run against?
 
John Paul II: Why so many religions?
 
Milton Vorst: Put Syria aside for the moment.
 
Bridge C16
 
Chronicle B12
 
Crossword C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



414 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Solid, not sexy, Beneficial is seen as an 'all-weather' investment.

BYLINE: By Kenneth N. Gilpin 

 BODY:
INTEREST rates are still feeling upward pressure and debt levels are moving back into precincts not seen since the late 1980's, but a number of Wall Street analysts say this is still a good time to invest in companies whose primary purpose is lending money to consumers.
Not only are consumer loan companies trading at low multiples relative to their earnings, but changing borrowing trends and superior asset and liability management have made a few of them fairly immune to cyclical turns. Perhaps the best example, they say, is the Beneficial Corporation, a $13 billion financial services company in Wilmington, Del., that is the largest independent consumer loan company in the United States. 
 "I like to think of Beneficial as an all-weather stock," said Richard Goleniewski, a vice president of Goldman, Sachs & Company. "They are positioned well to consistently generate positive earnings through interest rate and economic cycles."
Largely because of the type of business it does -- most loans are made to individuals and families with incomes of $20,000 to $50,000 -- Beneficial has not attracted much attention in either the financial media or on Wall Street.
"The problem with Beneficial is that it doesn't really have a lot of sex appeal," said Michael R. Hughes, a first vice president of Merrill Lynch & Company. "But it is a good, long-term stock we have pretty much consistently recommended. Year in and year out, you expect it to go up 10 percent. And based on our 1995 earnings forecasts, it is a very cheap stock."
On Friday shares of Beneficial fell 25 cents, to $40.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
By most measures, the company has established a solid record: rising earnings in 29 of the last 30 quarters and six consecutive increases in the annual dividend. Perhaps most impressive, since 1946 the company's total receivables outstanding, the best measure of loan growth, have increased 9 to 10 percent at a compound annual rate.
Finn M. W. Caspersen, chairman and chief executive of Beneficial, said a shift in borrowing patterns suggested that that sort of growth would continue well into the next century.
Based on a recent study conducted in conjunction with the Credit Research Center at Purdue University's School of Management, Mr. Caspersen said that contrary to conventional wisdom, the average borrower was getting older and the debt taken on was being paid off more slowly than in the past.
"It appears there has been a sea change," he said. "At age 45 or thereabouts, people stop taking on installment debt and begin home equity borrowing, which continues until age 65." That pattern could carry on for the next couple of decades, Mr. Caspersen said, creating more business for "those who lend to Middle America."
High consumer debt levels are not a concern at Beneficial, he added, noting that the company's delinquency rates were at all-time lows. "Our borrowers are in great shape," he said.
If analysts have concerns about Beneficial's prospects, they seem to center on the company's extensive branch system.
In an age when competitors like the Money Store Inc. and the Household Finance Corporation are increasingly turning to television as a marketing tool, Beneficial's network seems an antiquated and more costly way of doing business.
"I still worry about the branch delivery system," said Gary Gordon, who follows Beneficial for the Paine Webber Group. "Every sign says we are using electronics more and more. And I also worry they could be getting increasing competition from commercial and mortgage banks."
Instead of a drag, Mr. Caspersen says, the rapidly expanding branch network is a big asset to Beneficial's business.
Because of plummeting computer costs, Beneficial can open a branch office for less than $50,000, he said, and have that office on a break-even pace within a year. Low start-up costs also give the company flexibility to expand quickly into fast-growing areas, he said. And greater efficiencies provided by computerization make Beneficial's loan officers more productive.
"The loan offices are our insurance that growth will not go negative," he said. "This is a nuts-and-bolts operation, but the thing is working like nobody's business."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (77%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BENEFICIAL CORP; BENEFICIAL CORP MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BENEFICIAL CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENEFICIAL CORP; BENEFICIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (77%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



415 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: MASSACHUSETTS;
In a Bitter Campaign Season, a Candidate Rejects the Politics of Cynicism

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 16

 BODY:
In a year when many political challengers are resorting to negative, poll-driven campaigning, Bob Massie, a 38-year-old Episcopal minister and Harvard Divinity School teacher, has been waging a no-frills, no-sound bites, no-polling crusade against cynicism.
Though Mr. Massie, a Democrat, is running for the low-visibility job of lieutenant governor in a race that has been all but ceded to the incumbent Republican ticket, he has moved people like Rob MacLean. 
 "When I heard him speak, I was stunned," said Mr. MacLean, 23, who works for the state Turnpike Authority, describing Mr. Massie's speech at the state Democratic Party's convention in June. "He was talking from the heart. It was like a new voice. It gave me hope that things could actually turn out for the good."
It was not the usual political speech. Mr. Massie, a former teacher at the University of Cape Town in South Africa, told of being inspired by the advent of democracy in South Africa. He spoke of standing in a church courtyard in Cape Town on the last day of the elections last spring and hearing on the wind "the sound of thousands of people laughing, shouting and singing." It was, he said, "the sound of freedom breaking forth, of a democracy, against all odds, being born."
Mr. Massie, a political novice who has raised a relatively paltry $115,000 for his effort, started out with no money and no backers, and ran against the advice of all political consultants. Nonetheless, he has come farther than even his closest supporters predicted.
Helped by the endorsement of the editorial page of The Boston Globe ("Massie's candidacy promises an integrity of head and heart that doesn't come along often these days," the editorial said), he won the Democratic primary in September, beating a prominent, two-term state legislator, Marc Draisen, who had the party's backing.
And though Mr. Massie is infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, his condition has not been a factor in the race, other than that some voters say it makes his message all the more compelling.
Mr. Massie has hemophilia, a chronic blood disease, and was infected with the virus 15 years ago through a blood transfusion. He does not have AIDS, and neither his wife, Dana, nor their children, Sam, 7, and John, 5, carry the virus.
One of the people Mr. Massie consulted about his candidacy last year was Jim Spencer, a veteran of some 30 political campaigns and widely regarded as a savvy organizer. "I told him, 'Listen, there's no way you can do this,' " Mr. Spencer recalled. "You're looking at half a million, a million dollars.' I'm into encouraging people to run for office, but this was not the office. I told him, 'This is impossible.' "
Mr. Spencer said he wanted to spare Mr. Massie. "I could see he was a really good, committed guy," Mr. Spencer said. "I felt if he got involved in the process, he'd get so eaten up, spit up and chewed out he probably wouldn't even vote again."
Nonetheless, Mr. Spencer signed on as Mr. Massie's campaign strategist -- for $2,000, payment deferred.
With three weeks until the election, Gov. William F. Weld and his Lieutenant Governor, Paul Cellucci, are outspending Mr. Massie and his running mate, Mark Roosevelt, by 50 to 1, and lead in the polls 3 to 1. (In Massachusetts, although candidates seek their parties' nomination for governor and lieutenant governor individually, the nominees run in the general election as a ticket.)
The race has not generated wide voter interest, lopsided as it is in favor of the well-financed Republican ticket and overshadowed by the tight contest between Senator Edward M. Kennedy and his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney. Nor has there been any of the rancor that has characterized so many other races. For one, Mr. Massie is not that kind of candidate, and the others have kept to issues like crime, the economy, welfare and taxes. Debates are set for later this week.
In a way, Mr. Massie says, his life, defined by adversity and uncertainty, has prepared him for this race.
His childhood struggles with hemophilia were documented by his parents, Robert and Suzanne Massie, in their book "Journey" (Knopf, 1973). Suffering from excruciatingly painful bleeding joints, Mr. Massie had 496 transfusions from the time he was 6 until he was 12, and had to use leg braces and a wheelchair.
Eventually, he proved wrong the doctors who had told him he would never walk, though he has arthritis and must limber up each morning with a hot bath. But his vigor on the campaign trail belies the physical hardships he has known.
"You cannot escape pain," Mr. Massie said in a recent interview at his row house in a working-class neighborhood of Somerville, near Boston, where his sons mark off their father's campaign stops on a map on their bedroom wall. "Life is painful. There is loneliness, anxiety and fear -- fear of rejection, fear of deprivation, fear of death. Learning to cope with those fears -- and living a life of joy in the midst of all that -- is a great challenge."
On leave from his teaching post, Mr. Massie has been campaigning seven days a week, driving around the state in a battered station wagon (the car is featured in the one Roosevelt-Massie television commercial now on the air). He takes with him his five-string banjo, which he plays at campaign stops, and a book of essays by Vaclav Havel, the playwright who became President of the Czech Republic.
Mr. Massie said he had been inspired by Mr. Havel, who was jailed as a dissident by the Communist regime of the former Czechoslovakia, and by Nelson Mandela, who survived decades as a political prisoner to become President of South Africa.
"Tremendous new things can take place," Mr. Massie said in the interview. "A lot of what the world is lacking is hope. Hope is the vehicle through which we transform things. If Nelson Mandela didn't have hope in 27 and a half years in prison, he had nothing. The apartheid regime, with all its weapons and money and all its buildings, didn't have any hope and it collapsed."
Mr. Massie, who has degrees from Princeton University, the Yale Divinity School and the Harvard Business School, helped found a homeless shelter in New York City before moving to Massachusetts. He has also written a book about United States-South Africa relations that he said would be published next year.
In speeches, in which he talks of the struggles of his poor and immigrant Somerville neighbors, he gives this definition of the Massachusetts Commonwealth: "A community in which the strong protect and nurture the weak, in which we can create institutions and spaces open to all, in which the bounty we inherited from our ancestors is held by us in trust until it is time to pass it on."
Michael Goldman, one of the Democratic consultants who tried to discourage Mr. Massie from running, said he wished Mr. Massie's campaign had more money. "There is a sense out there that we're looking for people like him," Mr. Goldman said. "He has a great story to tell. He could be an extraordinarily interesting candidate. But there's no fairness to politics, and politics is run on dough. They don't have the dough to put out the story."
Mr. Massie says he intends to campaign right up to Election Day. "To those who say the unexpected can't happen and the outcome of boldness is sure defeat," he said, quoting from a stump speech, "I say, 'Behold the unexpected.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Massie, the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor of Massachusetts, brings a different style to the campaign trail, playing the banjo at stops and talking frankly -- supporters say inspiringly -- about "living a life of joy" despite his hemophilia and infection with H.I.V. (Steve Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (66%); VIRUSES (66%); BLOOD DISORDERS (64%); HEMOPHILIA (64%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MASSIE, BOB; RIMER, SARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



416 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Signals Acceptance Of U.N. Move

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 16

 BODY:
The Government-controlled news media indicated today that Iraq was willing to comply with the United Nations resolution demanding that it withdraw its troops from the Kuwait border area and warning Baghdad against any "hostile or provocative" actions that would threaten its neighbors.
In an unusual move, all the details of the resolution, which the Security Council approved unanimously Saturday night, were read on radio and television news bulletins. Such frankness here startled diplomats and some Iraqis. 
 The Minister of Culture and Information, Hamed Hamadi, told the official Iraqi news agency today that the "military force whose presence in the south was the subject of the big storm raised by the Americans has moved to rear positions after completing its training operation according to orders that have been issued."
In the last few days, the Government has repeatedly said the troops were on a routine exercise. It said the United States had accused Iraq of planning to attack Kuwait so Washington could delay the lifting of sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.
While reporting on the new United Nations resolution today, Iraq noted that Russia had succeeded in preventing the Security Council from inserting a clause that would have required Iraq to give the Council 15 days' notice of any troop movements in the south.
It said this was another indication that a growing number of countries oppose the attempt by the United States to maintain pressure on Iraq.
The Iraqi press has portrayed the crisis as an effort by President Clinton to shore up his domestic political position.
"The storm was stirred for reasons related to boosting his shaky popularity in American public opinion," an editorial in Al Thawra, a daily that reflects the views of the governing Baath Party, said today, reflecting a view that is widespread among Iraqis.
The press has also complained about what Baghdad sees as the defection of Arab governments that supported it during the Persian Gulf war. Jordan, Yemen, Algeria, Tunisia and the Palestine Liberation Organization openly sided with Iraq then.
King Hussein of Jordan was the major target of this criticism. In a long article headlined "Et Tu, Brute," the daily Al Jumhuriya castigated the King for condemning Iraq's troop movements.
Still, the article included the full text of King Hussein's comments, which contained several segments heavily critical of the Iraqi Government's actions last week and in which the King vowed to stand against what he said called new aggression by Iraq against Kuwait.
An Iraqi newspaperman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the decision to print the King's statement "seems to be part of a new glasnost."
He said a more open approach was essential in view of the economic crisis that is grinding the country down.
"You cannot ignore the hardships produced by the embargo anymore," he said. "People cannot eat or feed their kids anymore. The Government has succeeded in putting much of the blame on the Americans. Most people believe Iraq is complying with sanctions. They think this is unfair."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As American officials said that Iraq appeared to have resumed moving its troops out of the border area with Kuwait, a Kuwaiti official walked past a fortification thrown up by Kuwait to guard the border. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (95%); JORDAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); TUNISIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (95%); JORDAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); TUNISIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



417 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
The Economy
 The belief that the United States economy cannot deliver the higher pay that American workers want must confront a new fact: Most of the 5.5 million jobs the economy has added in the last two and a half years are in occupations that pay more, not less, than the average. This year alone, 72 percent of the 2.5 million new jobs have been for managers and for professionals. [Page A1.] 
 As Southern California struggles to pull out of recession, the San Gabriel Valley, northeast of Los Angeles, has found a reliable economic engine: large-scale Asian investment. [A12.]
 
Companies
 General Electric has reached an agreement in principle to sell the bulk of its Kidder, Peabody subsidiary to the Paine Webber Group in a $670 million deal that would create the nation's fourth-largest brokerage firm, people involved in the negotiations said. [A1.]
 MIPS Technologies, Advanced Micro Devices, Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M. will all offer details this week of new RISC microprocessors. Yet while RISC chips are quicker, Intel's chips, based on X86 technology, still dominates the market. [D1.] I.B.M. will announce today that it has cut its personal computer brands from nine to four and introduce several new models. [D1.]
 Honda Motor will attempt to plug a major hole in its product line this week when it introduces its first mini-van. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
 As virtually every major studio assembles an animation team in hopes of replicating the success of Walt Disney, predictions of a Golden Age of film animation are once again surfacing. [D1.]
 Matsushita Electric Industrial's chairman may meet with top-level executives of MCA to discuss the issue of management control at the Japanese company's Hollywood subsidiary. [D5.]
 As the end of "The Far Side" looms, the considerable licensing and merchandising empire created by Gary Larson's cartoons faces an uncertain future. [D8.]
 Despite a walkout by eight editorial staff members at the hip-hop magazine, The Source, the December issue will be published on time. Deirdre Carmody: Magazines. [D8.]
 Much of the recent financial news for American newspapers is good, but the stock market seems to have missed it. Several analysts said that the languishing share prices reflect long-term concerns about the future of the industry. [D9.]
 Three advertisers are ending relationships with their agencies, ranging from less than two years to almost six decades. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
International
 A side accord to the North American Free Trade Agreement intended to protect the environment has shown virtually no results. Two agencies dealing with the Mexican border lack general managers, and no cleanup projects have started. [D1.]
 The State Department has denied a request to export a computer disk that has samples of software encoding formulas, even though the formulas are available in textbooks shipped overseas. [D4.]
 
Today's Columns
 Regulators are bracing for spirited testimony today from biotechnology companies about delays in their patent applications. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
 Interest rates are still under upward pressure and debt levels are rising, but some analysts say this is still a good time to invest in consumer loan companies, with Beneficial perhaps the best play. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); HMC (NYSE) (67%); 7267 (TSE) (67%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); 6752 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (67%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); MIPS TECHNOLOGIES INC (56%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); PANASONIC CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MICROPROCESSORS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ANIMATION (86%); JOB CREATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); NEW CAR MODELS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); ANIMATED FILMS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (64%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



418 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Jogger Raped In the Park; 11th Victim This Year

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
A woman running laps around the reservoir in Central Park Saturday night was seized from behind and raped by a man wielding a knife, a few blocks from where another jogger was beaten and raped by a gang of youths in 1989, the police said.
Saturday's attack came with sexual assaults in Central Park already sharply on the rise. The police said this was the 11th rape in the park this year, up from 9 in all of 1993 and 4 in 1992. 
 At 9:30 on a cool night, the 39-year-old victim, wearing pants, a sweater and running shoes, passed a man standing on the northwest portion of the jogging track on her second lap around the reservoir, said Police Capt. William K. Roe. "A few seconds later, she felt someone grab her from behind, with a knife," he said. "It was the fellow she had just jogged past."
Holding the knife to her, the man dragged her off the track and across the equestrian trail that parallels it, and forced her into the undergrowth near several tennis courts and the West Drive, even with 94th Street, the captain said. He said that in the bushes, under a stand of pines and sycamores, the attacker raped the jogger, then left.
Police described the assailant as in his late 20's, 6 feet tall and 160 pounds, and wearing blue jeans and a brown and green shirt. Captain Roe said a sketch will be made based on the victim's description.
Shortly after the attack, Captain Roe said, the victim, an unemployed secretary who lives in Greenwich Village, met a man who was walking his dog in the park, who took her to his apartment on Central Park West and called the police. She was taken to St. Luke's Hospital, where she was treated and released. The police did not disclose her name.
"She claims that she jogged at least two, three times a week in the park at night," Captain Roe said.
The police said there have been 13 reported rapes in the park in 1994, but Captain Roe said that investigators believed two reports were unfounded. He said the police were concerned about the increase, and "the patrols have been beefed up."
But he insisted that Central Park is "no less safe than any lonely spot at night" and urged people to exercise caution.
"It's not a good practice to walk in any lonely spot at night," he said. "I would say if you're going to jog, jog with someone."
The captain said that there did not seem to be a pattern to the attacks and that investigators had no reason to believe one man was responsible for multiple attacks.
The latest attack took place eight blocks south of the secluded service transverse road where a 30-year-old investment banker was savagely beaten, raped and left for dead by a group of teen-agers on April 19, 1989, in one of the most notorious crimes in recent New York history.
Four of the youths were convicted of rape and assault, and one was also convicted of attempted murder. Three others were convicted of lesser charges stemming from a night in which the gang attacked several people.
Yesterday, the sort of brilliantly sunny day when the park is most inviting and fills with people jogging, skating and playing with toddlers, people expressed surprise that after all the publicity surrounding the 1989 attack and more recent ones, people still enter the park by themselves after dark.
Josephine Carter, a Village resident who works in fashion design, said, "I would never come to the park at night alone, that's for sure."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Guardian Angels member, Wayne McMitchell, putting up warning flyers yesterday in Central Park after the 11th rape in the park this year. The signs warn women not to run in the park without a partner after dark. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map of Central Park shoiwng the site of the rape.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ST LUKE'S HOSPITAL OF NEW BEDFORD INC (65%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (59%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN ANGELS (59%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; RUNNING SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); DOGS (72%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



419 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: A Futuristic Prison Awaits the Hard-Core 400

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Colo., Oct. 13

 BODY:
A pastel penitentiary of mirror-glass gun towers and hermetic cells opens its steel doors next month as the first Federal prison ever custom-built for the 400 most "predatory" convicts in the nation's booming penal system.
The new $60 million Administrative Maximum Facility glints here at the foot of the Rockies as impressive evidence of society's wrath and penology's adaptability as America's rate of imprisonment continues to rise to five times that of Western Europe's. 
 Inside, the prisoners will find a super-controlled environment that enforces a hard-edged solitude to contain the risk of social mixing and violence. Even the cell windows deny them all views of the outside except the sky above.
The terrain-hugging prison is a study in penal futurism. It is the state-of-the-art diadem in America's growing prison kingdom in which the maximum-security level of heightened confinement has become something of a rage among the states, too, since it was introduced in 1983 by Federal prison officials.
Twenty-five states have followed the Federal lead and adapted prisons to be "maxis," and six more are planning such prisons. All involve techniques that limit the movement of dangerous prisoners beyond their cells to an hour or less a day, and then only with leg-irons, handcuffs and an escort of two or three guards per inmate.
This approach, resorted to after the murders of Federal corrections officers by hard-core inmates sentenced to prison for life, is as much a state of individualized captivity as imprisonment. Less than 1 percent of inmates are subject to its rigors, but it operates as a system-wide, worst-case deterrent in focusing on inmates rated unusually disruptive, predatory or escape-prone.
The new prison here further limits the risks of mobility by providing each inmate his own in-cell shower stall, with flood-proof plumbing controlled by monitoring guards. And each has his own television set, but in strict black-and-white on a 12-inch screen lest law-abiding taxpayers be roused by the notion of a felon free to stare at life in living color.
Critics like Marc Mauer of the Sentencing Project, a nonprofit prison watchdog organization, say the prison opening coincides with the latest round of Federal legislation that will seed billions of dollars more in prison construction, after a 20-year period in which the nation already quadrupled its prison and jail population. The prison population has grown to 1.4 million now from 350,000 in 1973, with more growth certain under the "three strikes you're out" laws being enacted on Federal and state levels.
"I'm constantly amazed that 'getting tough' is treated as a new idea," Mr. Mauer said of the recent debate over the Federal crime bill. "With four times as many people already in prison now, do you know anyone who really feels safer?"
Correction professionals, he added, say crime prevention and prison rehabilitation are being neglected by politicians in favor of eye-catching lock-up mandates exemplified by the trend toward maximum security.
The new prison here is intended as a carrot-and-stick capsule for learned behavior, with room for 416 inmates to progress back to general population life, cafeteria meals and group socializing if they cease misbehaving during three years in maximum security. Cells are larger than industry standards because of the 23-hour days lived within them. But they are designed to resist vandalism, with the felon's bed, desk, stool and bookcase all made of reinforced concrete anchored in place.
The shaving mirror is of polished steel deeply riveted to the wall to prevent the making of prison shivs and other weapons. Matches and cigarette lighters, the proven stuff of explosives in other prisons, have been replaced by a simple hole-in-the-wall apparatus for lighting cigarettes. Meals are dispensed in separate heated trays through cell slots from airline-style carts pulled by small, sleek tractors.
The maxi design, with cordons of cold steel painted in soft green and maroon, staggers the cells so that one inmate cannot make eye contact with his neighbors. Each cell has a double entry door, with the classic barred cage door backed up by a windowed steel door that minimizes voice contact among prisoners. Near the end of a three-year tour, a successful inmate gradually regains social contact, with a recreation yard and cafeteria tantalizingly nearby.
"What puts a man in is his behavior, and what gets a man out is his behavior," said John M. Vanyur, the associate warden, who noted that the new Federal anti-crime law has introduced the death penalty for an inmate's murder of a prison officer.
There was no such penalty when the maxi approach of manacled managment was introduced after the slaying of two guards at the high-security Federal penitentiary in Marion, Ill. Marion, which replaced Alcatraz three decades ago as the containment fortress for designated incorrigibles, will be downgraded as prisoners begin arriving here from Marion.
The new prison is tightly subdivided into nine units by means of 1,400 electronically controlled gates and shuttles and 168 television monitors. Each unit is self-contained down to separate sick-call rooms, law libraries and barber chairs so that an inmate gets a minimum of travel leeway even with his chains and blazer-dressed escorts.
The look of the empty prison in these preparatory days is that of an ingeniously sealed archipelago decorated in tones of high-desert serenity. The sun sparkles on the exterior double fence of razor wire here on the four-prison complex. This is an economy approach that allows emergency plans for massing extra officers from nearby lower-security prisons if trouble occurs.
Florence is a ruggedly handsome old crossroads town from prospector and mountain men days that now has 3,500 residents. The 600 acres for the Federal complex were donated by the elders of Florence. They raised $130,000 in a month, so eager were they for 500 new jobs and more of the lucrative prison economy that for decades has made Canon City, 10 miles to the west, a penal gold mine with eight state prisons in operation.
The maxi trend has set off prisoner rights litigation, notably over California's Pelican Bay prison. But Federal officials say the new prison here satisfies all current court mandates in communication, visitation, habitation and other basic standards. The Marion experience, they add, has been that violent behavior is reduced, with more than 1,000 inmates moving back into lower-security prisons in the last decade.
On a global comparison, the United States recently slipped to second place in the rate of imprisonment as Russia, plagued by a post-Communist wave of street crime and capitalist corruption, rebounded to first. Russia has 558 people in prison per 100,000 citizens, while the United States has 519. Western European nations range from 60 to 100.
There are no projections yet of the inmate increase under the new Federal anti-crime law, but legislative specialists like Laura Lee Murphy of the American Civil Liberties Union note that states will have to curtail parole and lengthen sentences to be eligible for $4 billion in new Federal prison construction aid.
"It will have a massive impact on states -- they have no idea what they're doing to their budgets down the road," she said, noting that state operating costs of prisons far exceed construction costs.
The 92,000 Federal inmate population is growing by about 1,000 a month. With no plans to have more than one Federal maximum security prison, the Florence staff of 372 officers and medical workers will be facing hard-core convicts skimmed from an ever-enlarging base.
"An inmate first has to get over the first hurdle -- violent and predatory behavior," Mr. Vanyur said, stressing basics in looking forward to throwing open Florence's cells to the inaugural incorrigibles and then firmly locking them shut.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A cell in the new Federal maximum security prison in Florence, Colo., has a bed, desk and stool made of reinforced concrete. (Lizzie Himmel for The New York Times)(pg. A1); At left, two mirror-glass watch towers stand guard at the new Administrative Maximum Facility in Florence, Colo. In the center, a double entry door opens to each cell. At right, a hallway view shows the slots in each cell door through which meals are served to the inmates. (Photographs by Lizzie Himmel for The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Map of Colorado showing location of Florence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ADMINISTRATIVE MAXIMUM FACILITY (FLORENCE, COLO) FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE MAXIMUM FACILITY (FLORENCE, COLO)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORENCE (COLO); EUROPE; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; GUARDS; STATES (US); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; VIOLENCE PRISONS (93%); SENTENCING (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); FELONIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



420 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Falls Hard for Animation

BYLINE: By SALLIE HOFMEISTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Hollywood executives, once more, are predicting a Golden Age of film animation in the 1990's, with virtually every major studio putting together an animation team that it hopes can replicate the success of the Walt Disney Company.
One of the most provocative challenges to Disney's dominance could come from Jeffrey Katzenberg, who in the last decade brought Disney's animation operation to its peak, left the company when he was passed over for promotion and is now forming a new Hollywood studio in partnership with Steven Spielberg and David Geffen. 
 "This is not the first time others have said they'd get into the animation business," Roy E. Disney said Friday in a telephone interview from his home in Ireland. Mr. Disney, with Disney's chairman, Michael D. Eisner, assumed responsibility for feature animation after Mr. Katzenberg resigned last month. "It takes more money and time than most have been willing to spend."
Disney has had six consecutive animated hits since 1988, including "The Lion King," this year's second-biggest ticket seller and likely to be the biggest money-maker in Hollywood history, with more than $1 billion in profits after licensing royalties and video sales are counted.
But Hollywood executives say competing studios, after a string of false starts and close studies of Disney's formula, may finally understand that animation is a distinct discipline from live-action films and requires its own staff and culture. Although some executives wonder if the gushing demand will be there when these projects reach theaters, Warner Brothers has gone ahead and hired people for a new feature animation group, including two former Disney producer-directors. So has the 20th Century Fox Film Corporation, which vows to spend $100 million, largely on computers, to move seriously into the field.
MGM has formed a new unit and Universal Pictures has kept a hand in through an eight-year joint venture with Mr. Spielberg called Amblimation, a division of his Amblin Entertainment Company.
"This is a tremendous boost for animation, which has been the poor dog in the corner for so long," said Jane Baer, whose Baer Animation Company here helped Mr. Spielberg with animation for "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" in the late 80's and worked under contract with Disney on "The Lion King." "Katzenberg and Spielberg will be totally inventive. There will be a surprise around every corner. They could break Disney's monopoly on talent."
In some ways, the animation business has become easier lately, as computers have cut the cost of film animation and the proliferation of videocassette recorders fed children's big appetites for home videos. That makes even some box-office flops profitable.
But talent remains a precious commodity, and the race by studios into film animation is already creating shortages of animators, whose salaries have soared by $200 or more a week in the last year to an average of $1,800 to $2,200.
"Everyone who has any experience is working," said Steven Hulett, of the Motion Picture Screen Cartoonists union, which represents 1,700 animation writers and artists, up from 700 in 1989. "Warner Brothers is having trouble finding background artists. They're paying a lot more than Disney to lure talent."
The Geffen-Katzenberg-Spielberg studio may have more recruiting sway. Mr. Katzenberg, an animation fanatic, spent hours in the screening room and personally recruited composers for Disney's animations.
"Katzenberg will pull a lot of talent from Disney," said Mr. Hulett, who spent 10 years at the company as an animation writer. "A lot of people feel tremendous admiration and allegiance to him."
While Mr. Spielberg's last two animated releases were box-office disappointments, his studio is considered by the industry to be the only success besides Disney. And it was Mr. Spielberg's "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" in 1988, followed by Disney's "Little Mermaid" a year later, that changed the standards of animation.
Disney's feature animation division has grown to 1,000 people from 150 in 1984, when Mr. Katzenberg and Mr. Eisner came aboard and carefully molded the operation into the engine behind earnings growth companywide.
Mr. Disney says most of the company's animators are tied to contracts and are too absorbed in projects -- "Pocahontas" for next year and the "Hunchback of Notre Dame" for the year after -- to think about leaving.
But others say many three- and four-year contracts will soon expire and some artists are waiting to see what develops before they renew.
How Disney will survive the loss of Mr. Katzenberg is uncertain. Many Hollywood executives said the studio practically went dormant after Walt Disney died in 1966, coming back to life when Mr. Katzenberg came on board.
A brain drain may not be Disney's only threat. Though the company may be as many as five years ahead of competitors in developing proprietary software that creates special effects and allows for dramatic camera angles that give viewers more film magic, many studios now use computers for time-intensive tasks like coloration, making the process more economical.
And most studios, learning from Disney, seem to realize that animation requires special coddling. While live-action movies can be shot and released in six months or a year, each with a new crew, animated features take two years or longer and need a steady staff, which represents a heavy expense for the studio.
"This requires hundreds of people who must work from one project to the next for a core that can turn out a consistent product," said Matt Mazer, a former Disney employee who is executive vice president of Nest Entertainment Inc. and a producer of its first animated feature, "The Swan Princess," which will be released before Thanksgiving.
But a dedicated staff alone does not guarantee a box-office bonanza. Despite its early successes, the Spielberg animation sequel, "American Tail 2: Fievel Goes West," did only half as well at the box office as the original. And last year's "We're Back: A Dinosaur's Story" did a poor $9 million.
"The stories weren't good, and animation is a story-driven art form," Mr. Hulett said. "Spielberg turned over the final editing of 'Jurassic Park' to George Lucas because he was filming 'Schindler's List.' He's just too busy to give animation the attention it needs."
In contrast, Mr. Katzenberg is legendary at Disney for boldly scrapping almost a third of "Aladdin" and taking the story in a new direction because he did not think it worked.
Yet even box-office bombs can redeem themselves as home videos. Fox's "Ferngully," sold an estimated 2.5 million videos, collecting in the neighborhood of $50 million at retail, nearly half for the studio. It only made $21 million in theaters in 1992.
"The home video has created the financial wherewithal for people to invest in feature animation," said Mr. Mazer of Nest, whose company specializes in animated family videos sold by mail and on television.
Nest, which likes to cast itself as a Disney without theme parks, hopes to release an animated film every year and a half, with its second title to be announced this week. Disney could be seen as bullying the much smaller Nest, which has 312 animators. Some industry executives say Disney plans to re-release "The Lion King" on the same day "The Swan Princess" makes its debut to cut into Nest's box-office returns.
An adversary more in Disney's weight class is 20th Century Fox. It plans one animated release a year starting in 1996, under the direction of Don Bluth, a Disney alumnus who produced "An American Tail" and "The Land Before Time," Mr. Spielberg's two success stories.
Mr. Bluth, whose operation is based in Phoenix, said he had hired 200 people, 60 from his studio in Dublin, which produced "Thumbelina" and "A Troll in Central Park" for Warner Brothers this year.
Though the industry has criticized Warner Brothers for lacking a vision and a creative team for the film animation division it announced in 1993 -- and for past animation disappointments -- the studio is still considered a serious contender because of its deep pockets, its Disney-like apparatus of theme parks, retail stores and a bagful of characters, including Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck. Warner has just hired a respected Disney team, Bill and Sue Kroyer, though it has yet to announce its first project.
By comparison, Turner Pictures' effort is somewhat scattered. Its affiliated Hanna-Barbera Productions has formed a unit to add characters with feature-film potential to a cast that includes the Jetsons and Flintstones. Turner's New Line Cinema is distributing "The Swan Princess." And Turner has a deal with a former Disney animator, David Kirschner, whose film, "The Pagemaster," is due in November.
Universal Pictures has several titles in the works through Amblimation, a partnership that could make for a sturdy distribution contract with the new studio he is helping to create.
 Yet some executives wonder where all these projects will wind up. Building a cohesive team capable of producing films like "The Lion King" will take five years or longer. And by that time the baby boomlet driving the demand for animation may be more in the mood for movies like "American Graffiti" and "Animal House."
"The market for animation won't die, but growth will slow over the next five years," predicted Tom Pollock, chairman of Universal Pictures.
Yet as Mr. Mazer notes: "Even if every major studio puts out one of these a year, and even Disney has trouble doing that, the demand wouldn't be satisfied. Every year, 300 to 400 films are put out there and in 1992, only nine of them were PG-rated. Kids and parents want more variety."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Aladdin," top, "Beauty and the Beast" and "The Lion King" are the most recent signs of Disney's reign. (Walt Disney Company)
 
Chart: "The One and Only" lists the top 10 grossing animated films through Oct. 13. (Source: Exhibitor Relations Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (95%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP (65%); BAER ANIMATION CO INC (63%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ANIMATED FILMS ANIMATION (92%); ANIMATED FILMS (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: HOFMEISTER, SALLIE; KATZENBERG, JEFFREY; SPIELBERG, STEVEN; GEFFEN, DAVID STEVEN SPIELBERG (89%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (89%); DAVID GEFFEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



421 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Asian Investors Create A Pocket of Prosperity

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MONTEREY PARK, Calif., Oct. 16

 BODY:
As California struggles to pull out of its economic slump, one smoggy corner of Los Angeles County has found, quite by chance, a reliable economic engine: large-scale Asian investment.
The area, the San Gabriel Valley just east of Los Angeles, managed to avoid the worst of the economic downturn of the last few years because it relied less than other communities on the now-collapsing defense and aerospace industries. 
 More notably, through no effort of its own, it became the beneficiary of economic boom times in Asia, with affluent immigrants and huge investments pouring in from Taiwan, Hong Kong, Southeast Asia and, most recently, China.
One leading banker, Li-Pei Wu, estimated that more than 20 Asian-owned banks had opened in the area and that $27 billion in Asian investment had come in during the 1980's alone. In the same decade, this city of 60,000 people became the first in the continental United States with an Asian majority.
As Asians, particularly Taiwanese, sought to invest in the United States beginning in the early 1980's, they looked toward well-to-do Monterey Park, which already had a sizable Asian population, as a home for their families and their money. The location of the San Gabriel Valley, among the freeways and relatively close to airports and the Port of Los Angeles, was also an attraction, Asian business executives here said.
Monterey Park and its neighbors are now home to giant, gleaming shopping centers where the man with the Mercedes-Benz might speak only Chinese and the man who is parking it for him might speak only Spanish. But, in the Chinese style, much of the investment has not been showy.
Randall Lee, an Asian economic analyst who is head of Lilly Enterprises here, said that, in contrast to an earlier wave of Japanese purchases of trophy properties like Rockefeller Center, the Chinese strategy tends to be low-key and conservative, focusing on secure investments like warehouses, high-occupancy apartment buildings, supermarkets and shopping centers. Recently, he said, investors have become more sophisticated, developing joint ventures, for instance.
"Those guys are just real quiet about what they are doing," Mr. Lee said. "It's real hard for us to track it."
Chinese entrepreneurs are importing shoes, toys and heavy machinery from mainland China, transferring them through local warehouses and distributing them throughout the United States. A major Taiwanese bakery has opened a branch here, and a local noodle franchise is opening a branch in China.
The influx of Asian wealth has been fueled by a continuing economic boom in Asia, accompanied by concerns about political instability in Taiwan and Hong Kong. During the 1980's Taiwan was swept by fears of domination by mainland China, and Hong Kong today is just three years from reintegration with the Communist mainland.
"America has always been perceived as the most stable political environment, although the economic return is not as high as if they invest in Hong Kong or Bangkok," said Frankie Leung, a lawyer who specializes in investment and trade. "So America has become a sort of haven for safe investment."
The most recent group of Asian investors seeking safe havens for their money is a new generation of millionaires and newly wealthy government officials in China. With the Chinese economy growing at 12 percent or more a year, both government and private enterprises in that country have begun to explore United States markets.
"Many of them are setting up corporations or subsidiaries in the United States to teach themselves how to do business here," said Sam Kiang, a lawyer who served on the Monterey Park City Council. "Often it's just a one- or two-man office, like opening up a window for a firsthand look."
In the heart of Monterey Park, a four-story building housing the China Travel Service, which has ties to the Peking government, now stands opposite the giant Landmark Shopping Center, which was built with money from Taiwan.
Li-Pei Wu, the chairman and president of General Bank, one of the largest banks opened with Asian money, estimated that 135,000 Asians had moved into the area during the 1980's, a 137 percent increase in the Asian population. He estimated that those immigrants brought in an average of $200,000 each.
Many of them have retained personal and financial ties to Asia. It is an immigration in which fax machines, electronic mail, bank transfers and air travel have overcome international boundaries.
"This has become an extension of Asia," said Timothy P. Fong, author of a new book on Monterey Park called "The First Suburban Chinatown" (Temple University Press, 1994). "These immigrants aren't uprooted; they are transplanted. These people are often skilled professionals, sometimes with capital, and they re-create their lives in this country.
"It used to be that only corporations were global," he added. "At least in the case of the Chinese in Monterey Park and the San Gabriel Valley, people are global. It used to be that immigrants had to adjust to America. In this case, the community has to adjust to the Chinese."
The adjustment has not always been easy. As non-Asian residents saw Monterey Park being transformed, they fought back with a law requiring that Chinese-language signs on shops include English, and with a symbolic resolution passed by the City Council declaring English the nation's official language.
They were unable to stop a large Taiwanese donation of Chinese-language books to the local library, but they succeeded in getting a moratorium on construction that blocked some major Chinese developments. At the height of the dispute, in the mid-1980's, some cars displayed bumper stickers that read, "Will the last American to leave Monterey Park please bring the flag?"
Nevertheless, the Asian presence continues to grow. The 1990 Census found that Monterey Park's population was 56 percent Asian, 31 percent Hispanic and 12 percent white.
As the continuing investment has driven up property prices in Monterey Park, the Asian population has begun a rapid spread through the San Gabriel Valley, which has a population of 1.3 million. The cities of Alhambra, Rosemead, South San Gabriel and Walnut are now one-third Asian. In Arcadia, Diamond Bar and Hacienda Heights, a quarter of the population is Asian.
In a curious development, many of the small trading companies that have opened to help investment move to and from China are run by former participants in the democracy movement in that country who received asylum in the United States.
One of them, a young woman who had demonstrated in Tiananmen Square in 1989 and who asked that her name not be used to protect her business prospects, said she continued to be motivated by patriotism.
"I was born in China, and for better or for worse that is my country," she said. "I want my country to grow bigger and stronger no matter what has happened before. Right now I cannot do anything for the political side; what I can do is economic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Asian investment in the San Gabriel Square Mall and elsewhere in the San Gabriel Valley, east of Los Angeles, has helped the area avoid the economic downturn that has befallen neighboring communities. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)
 
Map of California shoiwng location of Montery Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (95%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (85%); MONTEREY PARK CITY COUNCIL (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTEREY PARK CITY COUNCIL (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MONTEREY PARK (CALIF); SAN GABRIEL VALLEY (CALIF); TAIWAN; HONG KONG; CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (95%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



422 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Side Deal Bears Little

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 16

 BODY:
Nine months after the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect, a side accord intended to safeguard the environment has shown virtually no results. Two new agencies dealing with the Mexican border lack general managers and no cleanup projects are even close to starting.
Some environmental groups say the delays confirm their fears that increased commerce under the agreement will further damage the earth, water and air in Mexico and on the United States side of the border. 
 "There has been very little progress," Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, said this month. "During the debate, we kept saying that unless trade is contingent on progress, progress won't occur."
United States officials acknowledge that they are impatient with the squabbling over who will lead the new agencies and how they will work. But they say that international meetings so far assure them that American standards and expertise can be brought to bear in Mexico.
"I think we're doing pretty darn well, everything considered," said Robert M. Sussman, the Environmental Protection Agency's deputy chief, who is responsible for enforcing the side accord. "You can imagine the problems of getting three nations to agree."
Or even two. The United States and Mexico have only recently broken an impasse over the nationalities of the chiefs of two new agencies concerned with the Mexican border. An American will lead the Border Environment Cooperation Commission, which will be based in Juarez, Mexico, and will develop projects within 100 kilometers of the border -- 62 miles. A Mexican will lead the less powerful North American Development Bank, based in San Antonio, which is supposed to arrange financing for these plans, especially for water projects, beginning this month.
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said these agencies would have leaders by the end of the year; other officials say the appointments could come this month.
"Obviously, it takes time to organize the staff, to put together the bank, to obtain the financing, to begin to review the projects and to approve them," Mr. Kantor said at a news conference in Dallas last week. "But it's going to make an enormous difference environmentally along this corridor."
Mexican officials counsel patience. "We should take the long perspective,' said Luis de la Calle, who directs Mexico's North American Free Trade Agreement office in Washington. "Many of the environmental problems we have today you have had in the past, or still have."
In recent years, furniture makers, automobile paint shops and other businesses seeking looser environmental rules and lower costs have shifted from the United States to Mexico. Mr. Pope says the border has become "the world's largest toxic waste dump."
Mexico has some strong environmental laws, but money, staff and timetables for enforcing them are often less than what is needed. "Our legislation, on paper, is impeccable, but there is no schedule," said Sylvia Adriana Pinal Calvillo, the coordinator, based in Monterrey, Mexico, of the Latin American branch of the Business Council for Sustainable Development.
On the border, a Mexican mess often slops over into the United States as readily as pollution from Juarez's smokestacks blows across the Rio Grande to irritate eyes and throats in El Paso.
In July, a 13-year-old boy from near Laredo, Tex., died from an amoebic brain infection after swimming in the Rio Grande. American health officials traced the infection to the 24 million gallons of raw sewage that Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, pumps into the river each day.
A huge Mexican coal-fired power plant being built 18 miles from the border has lost its American investors and drawn protests from environmentalists who fear that emissions will taint the skies of Big Bend National Park, 130 miles away.
United States environmentalists have drawn some encouragement from Mexico's appointment of Victor Lichtinger in July to head the staff, or secretariat, of a new Commission for Environmental Cooperation. Mr. Lichtinger, a Mexican economist who has worked on environmental matters as a consultant and as an official of Mexico's Foreign Ministry, had the backing of groups including the Environmental Defense Fund. Both the United States and Canada agreed to his appointment, but his American and Canadian deputies have yet to be appointed.
The commission, established under the environmental side agreement and governed by the top environmental officials of the Canadian, Mexican and American Governments, works on joint projects and hears complaints about failures to enforce environmental laws. After drawn-out arbitration procedures, two of the three member countries can as a last resort impose fines and trade sanctions on the third for pervasive laxity.
"It frankly is a part of the agreement that I hope is never used," Mr. Sussman of the E.P.A. said in a recent speech at the University of Houston.
The side agreement blunted but by no means eliminated opposition from environmental groups to the trade pact. The Environmental Defense Fund favored the treaty and the side agreement and still contends that both will bring American pressure and expertise to bear on Mexican polluters. The Sierra Club opposed the pact.
Last week, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader, who was a leading opponent of the trade pact during the legislative debate last year, joined with environmentalists to protest some rules of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission. He said that the rules, negotiated by the two Governments, limited public participation and allowed closed-door decisions.
"The credibility of the B.E.C.C.," he said in a letter to Secretary of State Warren Christopher, "is at stake."
As each week passes, environmentalists who backed the trade pact are becoming more chagrined. "The critics are saying, 'We signed the environmental side accord and now it's not working,' said Peter M. Emerson, a senior economist in Texas for the Environmental Defense Fund. "It makes me look pretty bad."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); SIERRA CLUB (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); SIERRA CLUB (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CANADA; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ENVIRONMENT; WATER POLLUTION; AIR POLLUTION TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); WATER POLLUTION (61%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); FURNITURE MFG (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



423 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Camden's Aquarium Risks Ignominy;
Drab Exhibits a Problem as Complex Fails to Lift Waterfront

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Oct. 11

 BODY:
Boston's aquarium has coral reefs. New York's has breeding whales. Baltimore's has dolphin shows. Camden's has brown fish from New Jersey. Sound like a sales problem?
The $53 million aquarium opened here in February 1992 after a wave of advertising featuring Caribbean music and pictures of brilliantly colored tropical fish darting around a coral reef. But the aquarium has relatively few such fish, and no reef. And while other aquariums nationwide are flourishing with a crowd-pleasing blend of education and entertainment, the Camden aquarium is struggling just to stay open. 
 "There are people who say we aren't as entertaining as we should be primarily because we have brown fish," said Dr. Judith L. Wellington, the aquarium president.
While most aquariums in the country are attracting bigger crowds than ever, attendance at the Camden aquarium -- built with taxpayers' money specifically to stimulate development in this poor waterfront city -- keeps sinking, to an estimated 600,000 this year, down from 1.1 million in the first 10 months of operation in 1992. Aquarium membership has also dropped, to 10,500 from 19,000 the first year.
Last month, the aquarium laid off 10 of its 100 employees and reduced its operating schedule, to five days a week from seven, as part of a plan to close a $1 million gap in its $8.5 million annual budget.
How did New Jersey manage to create one of the very few unsuccessful aquariums in America? (In 1993, 34 million people visited aquariums nationally, up 28 percent from the year before, according to the American Zoo and Aquarium Association in Washington.) There are many explanations -- including unrealistic expectations and a recession that limited both the scale of the aquarium and surrounding waterfront development -- but none is quite as colorful as the brown fish dilemma.
When the aquarium was being discussed in the late 1980's, state political leaders argued that if they were going to shell out taxpayer money, they wanted an aquarium with lots of New Jersey fish.
"Part of the representation made to the Legislature and the Governor was that the aquarium would be a good vehicle for educating students and other people in the state to the fish found in New Jersey waters," said Lewis B. Thurston, who was the general manager of the aquarium's construction for the Sports Authority between 1989 and 1992. "It would be unique in that it did not focus on fish found all over the world."
Now, it wasn't supposed to be all New Jersey fish. But high construction costs forced the aquarium to scale down its exhibits and indefinitely postpone plans to create what would have been the world's only living coral reef under glass. And with that decision, the aquarium's other focus, New Jersey fish, became dominant.
About 70 percent of the 4,000 creatures on exhibit at the aquarium were plucked from waters off New Jersey, and many are in a 760,000-gallon tank, the world's second largest, that re-creates the open ocean off the shores of New Jersey. The tank includes specimens like brown sharks, a 100-pound, prehistoric-looking ocean sunfish and a silver dolphin fish that turns blue when it feeds.
Visitors who do come seem to enjoy these exhibits, but on a recent weekday there was audibly more interest on the second floor of the aquarium, where people clustered around small tanks of brilliantly colored -- non-New Jersey -- tropical fish: peacock flounder, spotted scorpionfish, lion fish, orange-spinned unicorn fish, foxface rabbitfish and clown triggerfish.
The aquarium, formally known as the Thomas H. Kean New Jersey State Aquarium at Camden, sits by itself in a wasteland on the east bank of the Delaware River, directly across from downtown Philadelphia. After construction was completed, the state stepped aside, leasing it for $1 a year to a new nonprofit management corporation called the New Jersey Academy for Aquatic Sciences. The 100-acre site, which was supposed to attract additional private development, is largely a scene of weed-filled lots surrounded by factory buildings that look as if they were left over from the Industrial Revolution.
Two-thirds of the visitors who come do their best to avoid Camden's grim streets, taking a $4 ferry ride from Philadelphia across the Delaware.
Modern aquariums have done wonders in many troubled urban areas, but Camden is one of the nation's poorest cities, where the unemployment rate is 22 percent and 57 percent of its 85,000 people live in poverty. The last time the city got national attention was in 1991, when arsonists torched 120 empty buildings in a pre-Halloween spate of vandalism.
A 1985 feasibility study for the aquarium charitably states that Camden "is not at this time a tourist destination." But the study adds, "There is no reason it could not be," given the possibility that an aquarium, going by the experience in other cities, might attract $500 million in commercial and retail development.
The soft economy, however, dashed those hopes. Apart from the aquarium, there is only a new garage, a 10-acre park and a new office building for Martin Marietta Corporation. Another office building, for the Delaware River Port Authority, and a 25,000-seat amphitheater for concerts and plays are under construction. In all, that represents private investment of about $165 million.
But to date, the development has not provided a single shop, restaurant or extra attraction to lure visitors to the waterfront.
"Its projected attendance of 1 million visitors a year was based on a waterfront full of other activities -- retail stores and all kinds of shops and restaurants -- but none of that has happened," said Mr. Thurston. The model for using an aquarium as the linchpin for redeveloping urban waterfronts can be traced to the opening of the New England Aquarium in Boston in 1969. Before that the nation had only 13 major aquariums. Since 1970, 15 more cities have built successful aquariums, eight more aquariums are in various stages of development and as many as 100 cities are considering plans, say consultants.
Despite the differences between Camden and its competitors, Louis E. Garibaldi, a consultant who helped plan the aquarium here, is optimistic about its long-term prospects.
"Have patience, the Camden aquarium will work out eventually," said Mr. Garibaldi, who is also the director of the Aquarium for Wildlife Conservation in Coney Island. "Robert Moses put the aquarium in Coney Island in 1957 and only now, 37 years later, are we beginning to fulfill the promise for anchoring redevelopment."
The aquarium board has taken a first step toward such fulfillment. At a meeting today it approved spending $100,000 to develop a new concept for the aquarium, possibly one that would turn each visit into an adventure, said Dr. Wellington, who is the chief operating officer as well as the president of the aquarium. "One might go on a mystical adventure into the world of jellyfish, or go on a geographical adventure through New Jersey or the Caribbean," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sonny Renner and his sister, Jillian, looking at one of the exhibits at the Camden aquarium during a recent visit. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY STATE AQUARIUM

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY STATE AQUARIUM

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AQUARIUMS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); FISHES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (60%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



424 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Perry Visit Seeks to Rebuild Ties With Chinese Military

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 16

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration began a new effort today to rebuild ties with the Chinese armed forces as William J. Perry became the first American Secretary of Defense to visit China since the military's crackdown against democracy supporters at Tiananmen Square in 1989.
The high-level visit, which has become a matter of contention in Washington, is taking place against the backdrop of expanding economic relations between the United States and China as well as differences over Chinese weapons sales, nuclear testing and human rights abuses. 
 Mr. Perry said that he had come here to deal with issues like trying to dissuade Beijing from selling missiles but that he had no intention of discussing the sale of American weapons or military technology.
Explaining this upgrading of ties between the American and Chinese militaries, a senior Pentagon official said, "The United States Government made a decision that in order to address these problems, we've really got to talk to the People's Liberation Army, which has a significant voice in how these Chinese policies are being formulated.".
In this effort, Mr. Perry is being accompanied by senior officials from the Departments of Defense, State and Commerce as well as from the National Security Council. Over the next three days, Mr. Perry is to meet with senior Chinese leaders, give a speech at the National Defense University, visit Wuhan and Chongqing and inaugurate a American-Chinese commission set up to help China convert from military to civilian industries.
"China is one of the most important countries in the world, both from an economic and military point of view," Mr. Perry said.
But the Pentagon mission to China has drawn fire from critics who accuse Washington of subordinating human rights and national security concerns to economics. They assert that the Chinese military's real agenda is to lay the groundwork to acquire American military technology and note that it was Chinese troops that quashed the pro-democracy movement.
William C. Triplett, a former Republican counsel on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has urged Congress to "squash any coordination between the Pentagon and the unrepentant, anti-democratic Chinese military."
Mr. Perry's involvement with the Chinese dates to the Carter Administration, when as a Pentagon official he come here to help sell American military technology and contain Soviet military power. During his years out of government, Mr. Perry nurtured ties with Chinese military officials, including Gen. Liu Huaqing, a senior military leader, and Gen. Ding Henggao, Minister of the State Commission for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense.
Washington cut military ties with China after the violent crackdown at Tiananmen, but over the last year, the Defense Department had been quietly seeking to establish relations with the Chinese, with a recent visit by Gen. Merrill A. McPeak, the Air Force Chief of Staff.
To try to build political support for the Pentagon effort, Mr. Perry has included two prominent lawmakers in his talks here: Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who is chairman the Armed Services Committee, and Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican and a ranking member of the committee.
He has also sought to articulate the Pentagon's case. With the end of cold war, the objective in forging closer relations with Beijing this time is not to contain but to confront issues posed by China's armed forces, Mr. Perry said.
One goal is to persuade the Chinese to be more open about their military activities, which are a major concern among neighboring Asian countries, now that China has changed much of its military focus from the former Soviet Union to the South China Sea. To improve its ability to project force, China is taking measures to upgrade its air force and navy, including the purchase of 26 Russian SU-27 ground attack planes and military technology.
The Chinese say their annual budget is about $7 billion, but Pentagon officials said that sum did not include major weapons programs and other military activities.
"We want to know what is behind Beijing's defense strategy, modernization and relations with Russia," a senior Defense official said.
Mr. Perry also said he wanted to encourage Beijing to refrain from selling missile technology around the world, an appeal that has been made by Washington before with mixed success. He wants them to stop nuclear testing, something that the Chinese say they are not now prepared to do while trying to develop a new generation of nuclear weapons.
The Pentagon would also like China to use its influence with North Korea as Washington tries to negotiate an agreement to freeze the North Korean nuclear program.
The American-Chinese commission, of which Mr. Perry is co-chairman, is starting small, with talks to focus on cooperation in developing air traffic control system and building electric cars. The aim would be to establish business relationships between American companies and commercial plants owned by China's military industry, thus helping to encourage the Chinese to move away from military production.
Pentagon officials said that as cooperation on military conversion expands, only a minimal amount of profits, if any, would be be used by the Chinese to subsidize military research and development.
But Mr. Triplett asserts that the commission is just the foot in the door for Beijing.
"In China, the profits from civilian output at defense plants are supplying the cash for new weapons technology -- guns and butter," he said.
Mr. Perry said tonight that the security of the world would be enhanced if the American and Chinese militaries better understood each other.
"That's why I am here," he said.
Then Mr. Perry toasted his Chinese counterpart, Chi Haotian, at the Great Hall of the People, just across the street from Tiananmen Square.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary William J. Perry stood with his Chinese counterpart, Chi Haotian, at the anthem salute yesterday during official welcoming ceremonies for him at the Military Museum in Beijing. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); CHONGQING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (54%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (54%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); CHONGQING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



425 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Making Workfare Work: It Doesn't Come Cheap

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
IF the Giuliani administration is serious about putting able-bodied welfare recipients to work, the Mayor might want to take a close look at his neighbor downtown, the Port Authority. It has, in cooperation with the city and the state, employed people on welfare for about two years and by all reports, it has done so successfully.
But it takes time, money and effort. 
 At least 15 staff people at the authority devote some of their time to training and supervising the part-time employees -- 56 men and women at any given time who work on alternate weeks in about 30 clerical jobs. Participants -- 180 so far -- must pass two special screenings, first by the city's Human Resources Administration, then by the authority.
Those selected tend to be highly motivated -- people like Julio Blanco, an unemployed accounting graduate of Lehman College, who sees his clerical job as a route to permanent employment. "I think everybody who is able to work should work," says the 36-year-old Mr. Blanco, sounding like an advertisement for what is popularly called workfare -- working part time while receiving public assistance.
But even when dealing with a carefully chosen work force -- a luxury the city will not have -- the Port Authority has found that the program requires a major commitment. "It's a continual process," said Mario Argote, supervisor of employment programs. "They need constant feedback."
IT takes time and effort to teach computer skills or to convey the importance of reporting for work on time or to figure out how to give a needy worker a warm jacket without wounding the worker's pride.
"People have this simplistic notion: send 100,000 people into jobs, as if you can wake up some morning and do it," said Michael J. Dowling, the State Social Services Commissioner and originator of the New York State program. "The reality of what it takes to do this has to be appreciated. Otherwise it's going to confuse the public even more, and they're already confused."
Indeed, they are. Who would not be, with all the promises and plans heard over the years? The public even seems confused about basics. For instance, nobody is talking about putting the bulk of the welfare population to work -- those who receive Aid to Families With Dependent Children. In New York City, that numbers 846,000 people -- 545,000 children and 301,000 adults.
The Giuliani program would, by the end of next year, employ about 60,000 of the 244,000 men and women who receive Home Relief, a state program for poor people without children. They would work part time at jobs like cleaning parks. The city already employs 12,000 to 15,000 Home Relief recipients in workfare, and the idea is to expand on that.
Why isn't the number larger? One reason is opposition from unions, which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has already overcome in other matters. But difficulties with workfare go deeper; if they didn't, more welfare recipients would already be at work. The state said two years ago that every county should have half of all Home Relief recipients in work programs by now -- few do. Mayor Edward I. Koch had a workfare program. It didn't go very far.
"We floundered mainly because of the high cost of supervision," said Mr. Koch's former first deputy mayor, Stanley Brezenoff, now executive director of the Port Authority and the driving force behind the authority's modest program. "It is expensive."
THE Home Relief population runs the gamut from people who have lost their jobs to people with spotty employment records. Some abuse drugs or alcohol, some have never worked in a permanent job. Putting that population to work takes work, and money.
So far, the Giuliani administration has focused on saving money by reducing the welfare rolls. By assigning 270 people to do more intensive screening of applicants, City Hall hopes to weed out people ineligible for Home Relief because, for instance, they are secretly employed.
Such screening will help. It did in Westchester County, which runs a workfare program that Mayor Giuliani often cites as his model. But Westchester -- with about 8,000 people on Home Relief, or 3 percent of New York City's caseload -- does a lot more than screen. It refers people to drug and alcohol rehabilitation programs and provides training and education, which can lead to permanent jobs, that elusive goal of workfare.
Richard J. Schwartz, a senior adviser to the Mayor, says the city "would like" to provide the programs available in Westchester but has yet to devise them. "We have to see what kind of success we have, what kind of savings we can generate," he said. And the cost of supervision? That will be the responsibility of the city agencies to which the workers are assigned, Mr. Schwartz explained.
In other words, City Hall is not yet prepared to pay the price of the project it proposes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



426 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Despite a Resurgence in Advertising, Newspaper Stocks Are Languishing

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
With advertising returning to newspapers in most parts of the country, much of the financial news for the American newspaper industry is good.
But the stock market does not seem to have noticed. The share prices of most big newspaper companies have remained listless recently. 
 Newspaper securities analysts say they are pleased by improved earnings at many of the companies, based partly on cost reductions and on the healthy volume of advertising that has returned to most large dailies because of the improving economy.
But those better financial results have not lifted stock prices. "You look at these numbers," said Kenneth T. Berents, director of research at Wheat, First, Butcher & Singer, "and you hit yourself in the head and say, 'Why aren't these stocks moving?' "
The answer, several analysts said, is that the languishing stock prices reflect long-term concerns about the future of the newspaper industry that are returning to the spotlight now that the advertising crisis of the last few years is receding.
Newspapers across the country are contending with sharp increases in the cost of newsprint, which represents a large portion of expenses at all newspapers. Those price increases are expected to eat into profits for several years.
Several analysts said the weak performance of newspaper stocks also probably reflected worries about the strength of the economy and the kinds of lasting concerns about the future that have haunted the newspaper industry for years. Those worries include increasing competition for advertising dollars from direct-mail companies and other new competitors, large-scale changes in the retailing business, declining readership and the uncertain place of the newspaper industry in the emerging world of electronic communications.
"The stock market is making a judgment that as an industry it may be very healthy in October of '94, but December '94, December '95 and December '96 are more important," said Lanny Baker, a newspaper securities analyst at Salomon Brothers. "And the belief is that while the companies are currently healthy that health may prove fleeting."
Newspaper stocks in recent years have not performed as well as the stock market over all, Mr. Baker said, and the shares of many big newspaper companies have been trading at prices far below their highs during the last year.
On Friday, for example, the stock of Knight-Ridder Inc. closed at $51.875 on the New York Stock Exchange, well under its 52-week high of $61.75. The Gannett Company closed at $49.75, down from a 52-week high of $59. On the American Stock Exchange, the stock of The New York Times Company closed at $22.25, compared with a 52-week high of $29.50.
Several analysts said the extremely rapid loss of newspaper advertising during the recession served to highlight newspapers' long-term vulnerabilities. In a sense, some of the analysts said, the velocity of the advertising plunge introduced a new sense of uncertainty in a business that has traditionally been known for stability and high profits.
Mr. Baker says the newspaper industry itself is not quite sure what the risks will be when advertising weakens the next time. That uncertainty, he said, is particularly unsettling because the cycles in the newspaper industry are occurring in the context of a mature business facing long-term downward trends.
Last week, Mr. Baker released an analysis of the share price performance of nine of the country's largest publicly owned newspaper companies. He compared their performance, adjusted for stock splits, with the Standard & Poor's Midcap 400 since just before the stock market collapse of 1987, when most newspapers were carrying more advertising than they ever had before.
Mr. Baker's analysis showed that as of last week the stock prices of four of the companies were lower than than they were on Oct. 16, 1987, just before the market collapse: Pulitzer Publishing was down 12 percent from 1987, Dow Jones & Company was 19 percent lower, Times Mirror was down 20 percent and The New York Times Company was 38 percent lower.
Even those newspaper companies that have seen their share prices climb back beyond 1987 levels have not kept pace with gains in other industries, according to Mr. Baker's analysis. The value of the Standard & Poor's 400 has risen 67 percent since 1987. Mr. Baker's figures showed that the average increase for the group of nine newspaper stocks since 1987 was 2 percent.
As of last week, the stock of Knight-Ridder was up 5 percent since 1987, the Washington Post Company up 8 percent, Gannett up 10 percent, the Tribune Company up 27 percent and A. H. Belo up 55 percent.
Some companies, like Tribune and A. H. Belo, that have had the best stock price performance over the last seven years, have decreased their reliance on the newspaper business through heavy investments in television stations and other businesses.
Analysts said some of the companies that have performed less well in the market were struggling with particular problems. The Times Mirror Company, for example, was affected especially strongly for several years by the weakness of the economy in Southern California, the base of its flagship paper, The Los Angeles Times. And analysts say The New York Times Company has been affected because newspaper advertising in New York City has not recovered as quickly as it has in other areas of the country where the Times Company also owns newspapers.
The highly localized nature of the newspaper business, some of the analysts said, makes the prospects different for each company depending on where its publications are situated. But one nationwide problem that is cooling newspaper stocks is the sharp increase in newsprint costs.
When the size of newspapers was smaller during the recession, paper mills took large losses because of the lower demand. Now that many mills are producing less and newspaper demand is rising sharply because newspapers are selling more advertising, the paper companies are making large price increases stick.
The average price of newsprint in February was $420 a metric ton, according to Pulp & Paper Week, atrade journal. That price was up to $510 by Oct. 1 and is expected to rise to $560 by December.
Larry Ross, an analyst of paper company securities at Paine Webber Group Inc., said he expected newsprint prices to continue to rise and remain high well into 1997. "Prices are just getting going," he said.
The paper mills, which took big losses for the last three or four years, have succeeded in imposing three price rises since the spring, said William J. Hee Jr., the director of purchasing for the Gannett Supply Corporation. "It is very hard to absorb three price rises in six months," Mr. Hee said. "You can't pass it on to your ad rates or your circulation that quickly."
Many newspaper companies own stakes in paper mills as a hedge against rising prices. When newsprint prices are low the companies take some losses from those operations, as they have for the last few years, but when newsprint prices rise they take some of the increased profits from the mills to offset the higher prices their newspapers must pay for newsprint.
But even for newspaper companies that have ownership interests in paper mills, the sharply rising newsprint prices are financially damaging. Tod A. Jacobs, the newspaper analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said that was because newsprint typically accounts for about 20 percent of all newspaper costs.
In 1993, for example, 301,000 metric tons of newsprint were required to produce the daily and Sunday New York Times, according to the company's spokeswoman, Nancy Nielsen.
The current poor performance of newspaper stocks, Mr. Jacobs said, is partly explained by the direct effect of high newsprint prices on profits. "This problem is out there," Mr. Jacobs said, "and it has a better chance of getting worse than getting better. Everybody is saying earnings estimates have a better chance of getting worse than getting better."
But perhaps the real significance of the rapidly rising cost of newsprint, Mr. Jacobs said, is that it shifts the focus of attention from a somewhat rosy present for newspapers back to the nagging concerns that have worried some analysts for a long time.
Projections concerning the health of the newspaper industry beyond the current recovery ultimately lead back to all the familiar issues that have hung over the industry for years.
"The farther you look out of the recovery," Mr. Jacobs said, "the closer you are to the real problems."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Lagging Behind" shows percentage change of newspaper stocks since the beginning of 1994. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (84%); NYT (NYSE) (84%); MNI (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); MCCLATCHY CO (84%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STOCKS (CORPORATE); NEWSPAPERS PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); NEWSPRINT (73%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM LANNY BAKER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



427 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Some short- and long-term marriages are ending for companies and their agencies.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THREE advertisers are ending relationships with their agencies that ranged from almost two years to almost six decades on accounts with total billings estimated at $90 million to $110 million.
Trans World Airlines and Bates Worldwide in New York, which had worked together since January 1993, said they had mutually agreed not to renew their global advertising contract that expires at the end of December. Estimates of billings on the account of the beleaguered airline, which will change agencies for the third time in five years, ranged from $45 million to $60 million. 
 Mark Coleman, senior vice president for marketing at T.W.A., said in a statement Friday that the airline's recent relocation to St. Louis from Mount Kisco, N.Y., was the primary reason for parting with Bates.
"We feel strongly that where world-class service is available in our hometown, we should take advantage of it," he said, adding that an agency in St. Louis, which he did not identify, would be hired effective in January.
Last month, reports in trade publications identified that agency as the St. Louis office of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, which has had negotiations with T.W.A. for more than a year.
Michael Draznin, a spokesman at the New York headquarters of D.M.B.& B., said Friday, "We have to go with 'no comment' right now."
Frank Assumma, president and chief executive of Bates USA, the United States agency of Bates Worldwide in New York, said in a memo to employees, "We should all be very proud of the outstanding work we did for the airline under some very difficult circumstances." His allusion was to T.W.A.'s severe financial problems that predated the agency's hiring and have continued. T.W.A. executives have presented creditors a restructuring proposal, warning that it would be replaced with a prepackaged bankruptcy filing if the creditors rejected it.
Bates was awarded T.W.A.'s account 19 months ago after a review that also included the incumbents, Avrett, Free & Ginsberg in New York and Groupe FCA in London. They succeeded Young & Rubicam New York on the account in 1990.
Bates's work for T.W.A. included a theme, "The most comfortable way to fly," and the introduction of Comfort Class service, which offered passengers more legroom after seats were removed from aircraft. Comfort Class helped T.W.A. win a designation as the best airline for flights longer than 500 miles in the J. D. Power & Associates 1994 domestic airline business traveler satisfaction study. But T.W.A. has retrenched on Comfort Class promotion as some seats were restored to planes to increase passenger counts and revenue.
In a second change, Cotter & Company in Chicago has named two agencies to share its True Value hardware stores account, which had been handled by McConnaughy Stein Schmidt Brown in Chicago for the last two years. Billings were estimated at $35 million to $40 million.
Leo Burnett U.S.A. in Chicago will handle True Value's national and international advertising, as well as media planning and buying. And Italia/Gal in Los Angeles will handle regional and local retail advertising, serving the account by opening an office in Chicago headed by Carmen Italia, president and creative director.
Chuck L. Kremers, Cotter's marketing director, said Friday that Burnett and Italia/Gal were awarded the account after a two-month review that was narrowed to them and one other finalist, the New York and Dallas offices of Publicis/Bloom with the Publicis/Bloom promotional shop, Frankel & Company in Chicago. A campaign is expected to begin early next year, he added.
In the ending of the longest relationship, Burnett and the Unocal Corporation said they had reached what they described as a "mutual and amicable" decision to part company after 56 years. As a result, Unocal has placed in review its account, with billings estimated at $8 million to $10 million.
"We've restructured our consumer operations to focus primarily on the West Coast," Cindy Hearn, marketing manager for Unocal in Los Angeles, said in a statement Friday, "and we feel it makes good business sense to shift to an agency that offers a similar geographic and market focus." Unocal operates more than 1,400 service stations in 5 Western states; it was at one time in 45 states.
James M. Jenness, group president for Leo Burnett North America, echoed Ms. Hearn. "Both companies agree Unocal's needs will be better served by a different agency," he said.
The relationship dates to 1938, when the agency was awarded the Pure Oil account and created a long-running campaign carrying the theme "Be sure with Pure." Unocal, which acquired Pure, consolidated the account at Burnett in 1969; four years later, Burnett introduced a popular "Spirit of 76" campaign tied to Unocal's Union 76 brand (renamed Unocal 76 in 1983).
Ms. Hearn said Unocal's review would include "a select group of California advertising agencies," but declined to identify them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC5072 HARDWARE (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (50%); NAICS424950 PAINT, VARNISH & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC5083 FARM & GARDEN MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA); UNOCAL CORP; COTTER & CO; MCCONNAUGHY STEIN SCHMIDT BROWN; BURNETT, LEO, CO; BATES WORLDWIDE PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); COTTER & CO (60%); AVRETT FREE & GINSBERG ADVERTISING INC (52%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (50%); TRUE VALUE CO (50%); NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA); UNOCAL CORP; COTTER & CO; MCCONNAUGHY STEIN SCHMIDT BROWN; BURNETT, LEO, CO; BATES WORLDWIDE NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); HARDWARE STORES (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART CARMEN ITALIA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



428 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: STATISTICS REVEAL BULK OF NEW JOBS PAY OVER AVERAGE

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
The notion that Americans are working more for less pay is firmly embedded in public rhetoric. And it is practically gospel that the growing American economy cannot deliver the higher pay that American workers want.
No doubt many Americans are losing ground economically. But in fact most of the 5.5 million jobs the economy has added in the last two and a half years are in occupations that pay more, not less, than the average, which is now about $15.50 an hour. 
 This year alone, 72 percent of the 2.5 million new jobs have been for managers, from the chief executive to the branch sales manager, and for professionals, from surgeons and nurses to software programmers, accountants and high school teachers. And despite its reputation for low wages, the service sector is adding most of the higher-wage jobs.
As a result, average hourly pay for all employees, adjusted for inflation, is slowly rising, Government data show, not falling as so many politicians and commentators have been saying. Average hourly compensation, which includes health benefits, paid vacations, pensions and other benefits, is also rising, adjusted for inflation.
Indeed, average hourly pay has risen 2.5 percent in the early 1990's, about as much as it did throughout the entire 1980's.
"What's driving the average wage up is not so much an improvement for each individual worker but that the mix of jobs is improving," said David Wyss, an economist at DRI/ McGraw-Hill, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass. That is, the number of higher-paying new jobs is rising faster than the number of lower-paying ones.
Other factors -- bigger bonuses for executives and record amounts of time-and-a-half overtime pay for factory workers -- are also helping to push up pay.
To be sure, progress on the pay front has been extremely modest compared with that of the palmy 1960's or even the troubled 1970's. Another recession could wipe out some of the gains, at least temporarily. And the increase in average pay conceals a decline in the pay of many workers, especially those with little education or experience.
Indeed, even as average hourly pay and average family income have been edging higher lately, there is evidence that hourly pay of at least the bottom half of the work force -- those at the midpoint or below -- continues to slip. That may be one reason that median household income, as reported by the Census Bureau last week, has continued to stagnate after several years of economic recovery.
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, who is 4 feet 10 inches tall, likes to say by way of illustration that averaging his height with the 7 feet 1 inch height of the basketball star Shaquille O'Neal produces an average height of 6 feet. That, he argues, shows the limitations of using an average number at a time when the gap between high- and low-paid workers is widening sharply.
But the rising average shows that the economic pie for workers as a group is growing and that there are more good jobs to go around. And it suggests that millions of men and women -- in particular those with education and specialized skills -- are beginning to see benefits from the efficiency-minded reorganizations that have roiled Corporate America in the last few years.
This painful revamping, which spread from the factory floor to the service sectors in the last recession, continues to disrupt the lives of millions of workers and provoke anxiety for many more. But one result is that the average worker now produces about 6 percent more an hour than at the beginning of the decade. Many economists are optimistic that productivity, which ultimately determines how fast wages can grow in real terms, will grow somewhat faster in the 1990's than in the 80's.
And the group that is reaping the immediate benefits, while hardly a majority of workers, is nonetheless a fairly big one. Managers and professionals now count for one in four workers. Their ranks are double, 34 million against 17 million, that of the factory workers who are often cited as the typical American workers.
The data that show the turnaround in average hourly pay are the ones that the Government uses to construct its National Income and Product Accounts, which measure the economy's output. They come from the Labor Department and are more comprehensive than other, oft-cited measures. At least one of those measures -- the average pay for production and nonsupervisory workers -- suggests that average hourly pay has been falling more or less steadily for 20 years.
The broader national income measure is based on records supplied by companies. It captures all forms of pay, including fringe benefits and employee savings plans, which have become increasingly important, and covers the entire work force, not just part of it.
On the national income measure, average hourly pay for all workers climbed to $15.43 by mid-1994 from $13.44 in 1990. That is 2.5 percent more, after inflation. Over the same period, total hourly compensation, including fringes, edged up to $17.63 an hour from $15.09. That is a post-inflation gain of about 3.5 percent.
That might sound unimpressive. After all, in the golden 1960's hourly compensation rose by nearly 30 percent and in the troubled 1970's by almost 15 percent.
Still, the early 1990's compare favorably with the entire decade of the 1980's, which began with a steep recession and ended in an economic slowdown, when the average hourly wage rose just 3.2 percent after inflation and average hourly compensation rose 2.9 percent.
This trend does not support the impression that average hourly pay is sinking, emphasized in President Clinton's first State of the Union Message, in which he said, "For 20 years the wages of working people have been stagnant or declining."
The source of much of the improvement is the service sector, which is supposed to have been producing only low-wage jobs like hamburger flipping and baby-sitting.
Service companies -- from McDonald's to J. P. Morgan -- have dominated job creation in the economic expansion of the last three years, just as they did during the Reagan Administration years. But in an information-age economy that values skills, experience and education ever more highly, these companies have not been hiring just fast-food cooks, nurse's aides or cleaners.
More than two-thirds of the new jobs in the last several years have been in managerial and professional ranks, according to the Labor Department. Much of this new hiring is coming from health care, education, business services, banking, retailing and telecommunications.
Take Northfield Bank, a new community bank in a Chicago suburb that created 16 jobs -- including that of its chairman and president -- last year. Most of the jobs are for professionals, like lending officers, personal bankers and trainees. "So much of the check-processing and back-office operation is electronic now," said Eugene White, the chairman. "Fifteen years ago we would have needed 45 or 50 employees, many of them back-office people."
But now the 16 workers have a higher average pay than the 50 would have had a decade ago. Blair K. Robinson, the bank's president and chief executive, said, "We'd rather pay fewer people more money."
Outplacement counselors confirm that the demand is for people to fill higher-paying jobs. Lee Hecht Harrison, an outplacement firm in New York, says it is placing many of its clients in insurance, health care, entertainment and a host of professional firms from advertising agencies to accounting firms.
The new management jobs tend to be in high-growth fields, frequently at smaller firms where managers actually run businesses and develop new accounts rather than churning out reports for the next layer of bosses to read. "Nobody is adding layers of bureaucracy anymore," said Stephen Roach, an expert on the service economy at Morgan Stanley. "That's not changing."
It is the growing presence of managers and professionals in service companies, labor economists agree, that appears to be most responsible for pushing up the pay averages. Managers include everybody from the chief executive making seven figures to the former checkout clerk who oversees the local grocery store. They push up the average for all workers because they earn 60 percent more than the median wage for all private workers -- $635 a week against $394 -- and three times what people in low-paid fields like cafeteria work or cleaning earn. Professionals fare almost as well as managers.
The trend toward better jobs is hardly new -- the mix of jobs was improving in the 1980's, too -- but a recent Labor Department study suggests that the shift from lower-paying to higher-paying jobs may have accelerated. While managers and professionals accounted for three-fourths of the job growth in the last four years, they accounted for less than half over the 10 years from 1983 to 1993.
Even some leading economists seem a bit surprised by the recent trend. But they agree that it is happening.
"If you believe average productivity is growing," said Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard University and until recently the Labor Department's chief economist, "you have to believe that average compensation per hour has gone up."
If workers on average are producing more an hour, the extra income can go to only three groups: owners and investors, foreigners or American workers. Contrary to popular perception, stockholders' and other owners' share of national income has not budged in recent years and neither has foreigners'.
"Workers as a group are fully sharing in the economic gains," said Paul R. Krugman, an economist at Stanford University and author of "The Age of Diminished Expectations," a dour appraisal of the American economy since 1973. "That means there's something funny about numbers that suggest that the average real wage is declining."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Wage Picture: Three Facts" shows the average overall rise in average weekly pay from 1980 to 1994. "Where the Jobs Are, and Aren't" shows median weekly pay in 1993, net increase and decrease in pay for the goods and services industries. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (66%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; OVERTIME; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BONUSES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); CENSUS (69%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (54%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



429 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soviet States Need All-Purpose Union;
Justified Fear of Russia

 BODY:
To the Editor:
How noble that Grigory A. Yavlinsky proposes a voluntary integration of Russia's neighbors as a counterweight to Russia's own neo-imperialist extremists like Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky (Op-Ed, Oct. 9). 
 By ignoring or certainly undermining the sovereignty of Ukraine, Moldova and others, Mr. Yavlinsky's "harmonized economic legislation" suggests a reformulation of a tortured past. To allay fears of neo-imperialism, Russia must stop defining itself along purely ethnic lines, falsely championing 25 million Russians in the "near abroad," and start acting like a civilized nation.
While Ukraine-Russia trade is natural, Mr. Yavlinsky's attempt to extract economic subservience for a "small price" hardly dispels the justified fear of neo-imperialism.
Ukraine's new President, for example, may finally be proceeding with much-needed reforms. His true course, and indeed Russia's, would be integration with the West.
Ukraine must proceed with prompt reforms, stabilization of currency, privatization, reasonable tax codes and a social safety net to fulfill the promise to its people, more than 90 percent of whom voted for independence from Moscow in 1991.
Mr. Yavlinsky and Mr. Zhirinovsky, though on opposite sides of the Russian political spectrum, would have Ukraine and others recolonized in one fashion or another. It is time for Russia to dispel its good-guy, bad-guy routine with the rest of the world.
 
JOSEPH MAZURYK
Danville, Calif., Oct. 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TAX LAW (52%); 

PERSON: YAVLINSKY, GRIGORY A GRIGORY A YAVLINSKY (91%); VLADIMIR V ZHIRINOVSKY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



430 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Restart the Rights Clock in Indonesia

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is having a hard time deciding whether to impose modest trade sanctions against Indonesia for denying workers their basic rights. First it demanded changes by February 1994. Then it let that deadline pass and dropped formal scrutiny of Indonesia's performance for six months. Now it seems ready to delay any action until after President Clinton visits Jakarta next month for the Asia-Pacific summit meeting.
Such protracted delay helps no one. The Administration should tell Indonesia now what it still needs to do and set a firm deadline for doing it. 
 As a low-income developing country, Indonesia is eligible for reduced tariffs on certain products through a program called the General System of Preferences, or G.S.P. About $900 million in Indonesian exports entered the U.S. under this program last year. But by U.S. law, countries benefiting from G.S.P. are required to take steps to accord their citizens internationally recognized labor rights.
In Indonesia's case that means getting the army out of labor disputes and letting workers form independent unions. As the February deadline approached, Indonesia promised Washington it would take meaningful steps in both areas. It has had eight months to put those promises into effect.
A U.S. investigative team recently visited Indonesia to assess compliance. Its findings are not yet available. Human rights groups report some progress, but say the military still interferes in labor matters and the Government is still trying to crush the main independent union. Last month, 28 members of Congress urged the Administration to revoke Indonesia's G.S.P. benefits.
But the G.S.P. debate is now taking place in a radically changed context. In May, the Clinton Administration dropped all human rights conditions on trade with China. As repressive as Indonesia's labor policies are, they are less harsh than Beijing's. In recent weeks, Commerce Secretary Ron Brown has called for expanding trade with China and Indonesia, ignoring human rights concerns.
The message is clear: Washington's human rights talk need not be taken seriously. If President Clinton wants to salvage any credibility on rights, he needs to modify that cynical message at once.
Withholding trade benefits is an appropriate tool for punishing labor abuses. Such abuses offend human rights and confer unfair trade advantages to the violator. In the case of G.S.P., upholding labor standards is required by law. But if the Administration sincerely believes that trade and development are the best ways to advance human rights, other forms of pressure are available.
These include outspoken diplomacy, votes in the U.N. human rights commission and restrictions on military training and sales for countries whose armed forces are involved in human rights abuse. The latest foreign aid bill specifically instructs U.S. representatives in multilateral development banks like the World Bank to take worker rights into account when they cast their votes.
Right now, the Clinton Administration seems at a loss over human rights policy. Renewing the pressure on Indonesia over labor rights could help it find its way again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (83%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ARMIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MILITARY TRAINING (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (85%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



431 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Will Workfare Work?

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's plan to put able-bodied, childless New York City welfare recipients to work rings with optimism. The plan, his senior advisers say, will place idle enrollees in useful jobs, like cleaning parks and other public spaces, saving taxpayers $80 million a year.
Maybe so. But the record of "workfare" around the country has been uneven. Most workfare programs have been expensive to run and have rarely cut welfare rolls or eased recipients into private jobs. Mr. Giuliani points to a successful workfare program in Westchester County as the model for his proposal. Westchester's program is certainly worth looking at. Whether it can be replicated in New York City remains to be seen. 
 The notion of workfare is as old as welfare itself. The idea is to require able-bodied recipients to do something useful for taxpayers in return for cash assistance. Workfare programs can be expensive to run because it is always a lot cheaper to mail out checks than to supervise work. Moreover, studies by the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, reviewing experiments across the nation, conclude that workfare has not consistently cut welfare payments or led to employment and earning gains.
Even so, it is possible for taxpayers to come out ahead -- largely because enrollees are performing useful public work.
Westchester County's system suggests the necessary ingredients of a successful effort. Begun in 1989, it involves only the state welfare program known as Home Relief, which primarily caters to childless adults; Federal welfare recipients, who are usually mothers, would be far more difficult to place in jobs. The Westchester program has saved the county money because it emphasizes early detection and ongoing monitoring -- weeding out enrollees who are ineligible.
Further, by requiring enrollees to show up for public jobs, it drives away applicants who had been collecting welfare while holding jobs on the side. Together, careful surveillance and fraud detection have kept Westchester's welfare rolls from rising more than 1 percent in five years -- a remarkable statistic. Finally, the program's administrators have tried hard to identify specific projects for workfare enrollees to tackle, like cleaning out an abandoned school, and have supplied a steady stream of enrollees for supervisors to direct.
Some of New York City's Home Relief recipients are already in workfare. Mr. Giuliani's plan would eventually cover all able-bodied recipients and, like the Westchester program, emphasize early detection. But can it match Westchester's success? Westchester's economy is in better shape than New York City's, meaning a smaller welfare burden. The job skills of the city's Home Relief population are probably not as good. Westchester has had little trouble in quickly terminating enrollees who do not show up for work without an acceptable excuse. It is unlikely that New York City could so easily enforce its work rules.
But overwhelmingly, the biggest hurdle is size. Westchester handles about 2,500 enrollees a year; Mr. Giuliani talks about a universe of 80,000, with only 270 additional administrators. No state or local government in the country has figured out how to run a successful program on that scale.
The Giuliani administration is to be applauded for setting out an ambitious program to put Home Relief recipients to useful work, improving city services and saving money. It is well worth a vigorous effort. But it will not be easy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



432 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Teacher Salaries

 BODY:
Public-school teacher salaries in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have leveled off after rising faster than the rate of inflation earlier in the decade. Salaries rose as efforts to improve education focused attention on the problems of the nation's public schools. Teachers in the region are still among the best paid in the nation but tightening state budgets and contentious collective bargaining have held down pay raises. The region still devotes a greater share of its school budgets to teacher salaries compared with other parts of the country. Nationally, the share of school budgets that went for salaries was 52 percent in 1964; this year it was down to 39 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Teacher Salaries" shows average salaries of public schoolteachers, number of full-time teachers, money spent on salaries in the region and top ten highest average salaries in the nation for the 1993-1994 school year. (Source: State education departments, American Federation of Teachers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES WAGES & SALARIES (96%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (86%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994



433 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL AND JORDAN SIGN DRAFT OF WIDE-RANGING PEACE TREATY

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan , Oct. 17

 BODY:
Israel and Jordan initialed a draft peace treaty today clearing the way for regular diplomatic relations, enhanced commerce and easier travel after 46 years of veering between warfare and uneasy coexistence.
The agreement, reached after torturous overnight negotiations, was the first major addition to the patchwork of Middle East peace since the agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization last year. It was also the first peace agreement between Israel and an Arab nation since the treaty with Egypt in 1979. 
 While for more than 20 years Jordan and Israel had not fought openly and had sometimes seemed secretly cooperating neighbors, the agreement today maintained the momentum of peace efforts and shifted the diplomatic focus to Syria as the next neighboring country that could end its state of war with Israel.
The White House announced tonight that President Clinton had accepted an invitation to attend the formal signing ceremony for the treaty, scheduled for Oct. 26 in the border area between Eilat and Aqaba. King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel formally ended the state of war between Jordan and Israel in a ceremony at the White House in July, and Mr. Clinton praised the treaty today as "an extraordinary achievement."
Neither Israel nor Jordan released details of the treaty, and officials said annexes to a final agreement still had to be worked out.
But the Israeli radio reported that the deal involved an agreement by Israel to divert some 50 million cubic meters of water, or 13.2 billion gallons, a year to arid Jordan, where, as elsewhere in this region, water is almost as valuable a commodity as oil in maintaining economic viability. In addition, the two sides reportedly agreed to build dams on the Yarmuk and Jordan rivers later stage to increase water supplies to both countries.
The Israeli radio said the two sides had also reached a complex deal that would allow Jordan to reassert its sovereignty on a pocket of Israeli-occupied territory of 135 square miles along its southern border, but to lease about 11 square miles of it back to Israel.
The unusual arrangement could become a precedent for Israel's negotiations with Syria over the far more extensive and explosive issue of control over the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, the central point of contention between Israel and President Hafez el-Assad of Syria.
In Amman today, though, both Israeli and Jordanian leaders -- beaming at each other from adjacent podiums -- seemed intent on underscoring the virtues of their agreement and the warmth of a relationship that is widely thought to have grown in secrecy when the two sides were not officially speaking.
"No one lost, no one won, we all won," Mr. Rabin said.
King Hussein said, "Between us, hopefully, it's a fresh beginning, a fresh start." The two leaders spoke at the ceremony in the Royal Guest Palace, where the treaty was initialed by Mr. Rabin and his Jordanian counterpart, Abdul-Salam al-Majali, with much mutual praise by the King and Mr. Rabin.
Israel's Foreign Minister, Shimon Peres, later surprised many Jordanians by embracing the King and kissing him on both cheeks, a traditional form of Arab greeting.
Negotiated efforts to sign a peace treaty have been carried out steadily since Jordan signed its agreement with Israel in July to end a formal state of war that had endured for 46 years.
Until Sunday, however, there had been little indication that the negotiations, which started with the Madrid peace conference in 1991 after the end of the Persian Gulf war, were close to overcoming unresolved differences over water, territory and security issues.
Then, on Sunday night, Israelis learned that Mr. Rabin and Mr. Peres had flown to Amman, the Jordanian capital, after a week dominated in Israel by the abduction and killing of an Israeli soldier by Islamic militants.
The episode seemed to highlight the pressures on Israel's agreement with the P.L.O. from Palestinian militants. The urgency of the visit to Amman left the impression that Mr. Rabin was desperate to maintain the momentum of his overtures to Jordan as his agreement with the P.L.O. seemed to be running into challenges.
The initialing, however, did not represent the end of negotiations.
On Tuesday, officials from the two sides are to begin detailed talks on annexes to the treaty in the Jordanian Red Sea port of Aqaba. After that, the agreement needs approval by both Parliaments, which is regarded as a formality.
Of the outstanding issues, water was the most far-reaching.
According to Jordanian accounts, both Israel and Syria have progressively restricted Jordan's access to the water of the Jordan and Yarmuk Rivers, so that of an annual allotment of 477 million cubic meters a year foreseen in American-sponsored proposals in 1953, Jordan is now receiving none from the Jordan River and only about 100 million from the Yarmuk.
Israel's reported agreement to divert 50 million cubic meters a year to Jordan, presumably from the Sea of Galilee area, is thus a major economic boost for a country whose underground water supples are rapidly becoming exhausted. Jordan already rations water.
For Israel, the agreement involved a concession because it has long argued that there is too little water in the region to be shared, and that the only way to overcome the shortage in the long term is to tap new water sources.
The agreement on territory was less dramatic, though it seemed a novel approach to what has long been the central problem of the Middle East.
"Israel will return all occupied Jordanian territories with minor border ratifications carried out on a reciprocal basis," Prime Minister Majali said. The territorial arrangement does not affect the Israeli-occupied West Bank, once ruled by Jordan, because King Hussein relinquished legislative and administrative links to the territory in favor of the P.L.O. in 1988.
Jordan and Israel said they had agreed that the international boundary between their countries should follow, with small modifications, a British demarcation line between Jordan and British-mandated Palestine drawn up in 1922.
The Israeli radio said that Jordan had won back all the territory it had demanded, but that some would be "leased to Israel due to its importance" to farmers. Israeli officials said the amount was no more than about 11.5 square miles.
The agreement did not, however, please everyone.
Jordan's Islamic fundamentalists, following the example of those in Gaza and the occupied West Bank, vowed to oppose the agreement, saying it was against "everything Muslims and Arabs stand for and believe in." The Islamic opposition controls 16 of the 80 seats in the lower house of the Jordanian Parliament and cannot alone block its ratification.
In Israel, Likud opposition officials questioned the haste with which the agreement had been reached. "Always there are concerns, especially when I see the hurry," said former Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir.
A further source of opposition could be the P.L.O., which has historically vied with King Hussein to represent Palestinians and, in recent years, has competed with Jordan to secure advantage from peace efforts with Israel.
 
Clinton Hails Peace Accord
 WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 (Special to The New York Times) -- President Clinton hailed the peace accord between Israel and Jordan today, and the White House said Mr. Clinton would fly to the Middle East next week to witness a signing ceremony on the two countries' border.
The journey will require Mr. Clinton to cancel or reschedule several appearances intended to shore up his party's prospects for the midterm elections. But aides to the President said he had concluded that his attendance would send a strong message about the importance of the peace effort to the United States, and some of them also suggested that it would call Americans' attention to a foreign policy success.
Before flying from Washington to New Mexico for a daylong trip, , Mr. Clinton offered effusive praise to Prime Minister Rabin and King Hussein. "The United States has stood by them and worked with them, and we will stand by them every step of the way," the President said.
Aboard Air Force One, Mr. Clinton then took a long-distance telephone call from the two leaders, who invited him to attend the signing of the accord. A senior Administration official said the President had decided to accept by the time he climbed back aboard his plane for the trip back to Washington tonight.
The decision, which officials said followed a sharp debate among his advisers, means that Mr. Clinton will interrupt a heavy schedule of campaigning for Democratic candidates to fly to Israel, Jordan and perhaps also to Kuwait, where he would visit American soldiers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel getting a helping hand from King Hussein of Jordan yesterday after the ceremony at which their two countries initialed a draft peace agreement normalizing relations. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map/Diagram: "WATER RESOURCES: Reducing a Tug of War Over a Precious Resource"
 
Sources
 Israel, the occupied territories, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria rely variously on water from rivers and their tributaies and wells that draw on underground aquifers, as well as desalted water from the Mediterranean and other seas.
 
Yesterday's agreement
 Israel and Jordan initialed a peace agreement yesterday that ended years of conflict and provided for changes in water alotment in the region.
 
History
 The Eisenhower Administration negotiated an agreement in 1953 among Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria on allocation of water from the Jordan and Yarmuk Rivers, but it was never ratified. Israel captured the Golan Heights and West Bank in 1967, gaining control of most of the Jordan River basin.
 
Consumption
 Water consumption varies sharply in the region. The agreement yesterday provides for Israel to divert some 50 million cubic meters, or 13.2 billion gallons, of water a year to arid Jordan. (One cubic meter equals 264 gallons.)
 
Annual water consumption in 1993
 
Israel: 1.8 billion cubic meters
Jordan: 500 million
Gaza Strip: 92 million
Wewst Bank: 135 million
 
Per capita annual consumption
 
Israel: 380 cubic meters
Jordan: 140 cubic meters
Gaza Strip: 130 cubic meters
West Bank: 90 cubic meters
U.S.: 232 cubic meters
 
(Sources: Central Intelligence Agency; Munther Haddadin, University of Amman, Jordan; Israeli Consulate; Washington Institute for Near East Policy; American Water Works Association) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JORDAN (97%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION (59%); WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (57%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION (59%); WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (57%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; AMMAN (JORDAN); JORDAN (97%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); PEACE PROCESS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN); PERES, SHIMON (MIN) BILL CLINTON (79%); SHIMON PERES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



434 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:
International A3-17
 
A PACT FOR ISRAEL AND JORDAN
Jordan and Israel initialed a draft peace treaty that will address water and land issues between them and maintain the momentum of Middle East peace efforts. A1
 

OPENING THE WAY TO PEACE
News analysis: The initialing of a peace agreement with Jordan leads many Israelis to feel that the door is now open and that an agreement with Syria will be next. A12
 
U.N. REBUFFS RUSSIA ON IRAQ
The Russian Foreign Minister went to the United Nations Security Council to make a plea for lifting sanctions on Iraq, but his statements drew no sympathy. A1
 
Iraq's Parliament met, moving toward recognizing Kuwait. A16
 
America does not welcome Russian intervention in Iraq. A16
 
From an aircraft carrier, practice raids on Iraq. A17
 
BREAKTHROUGH ON NORTH KOREA
The United States and North Korea reached broad agreement on carrying out measures to freeze North Korea's nuclear program in exchange for concessions. A1
 
ROYAL REBUKE IN BRITAIN
Prince Charles's cooperation with a biography that says he had an unhappy childhood and a loveless marriage drew a strong rebuke from his father. A1
 
CAPTURING HAITIAN GUNMEN
Haitians, at their President's urging, seized hundreds of paramilitary gunmen, and American troops handed them over to the Haitian police who once collaborated with them, so it was unclear what the outcome would be. A8
 
U.S. aid to Haiti will include jobs for military. A8
 
BRAVE FACE ON GERMAN VOTE
Chancellor Helmut Kohl tried to dismiss his election setback, in which his majority was whittled down, but on most issues it is clear he will have to seek a consensus. A3
 
Mexico's rebels threatened violence over election results.A15
 
Vladiceasca Journal: Back to the land in Romania. A4
 
National A18-23, B8-10
 
IT'S NOT THE ECONOMY
In the midst of a booming economy, incumbents should be getting a lift, too, but that's not happening to Democrats this year. A1
 
SERMON FROM CLINTON
President Clinton went to New Mexico to address police chiefs but wound up giving an impassioned plea for a generation of children afflicted by violence. B10
 
JUGGLING ON GAY TROOPS
News analysis: The Clinton Administration is continuing to marshal resources to defend the new policy barring open homosexuals from the military, but at the same time may allow one homosexual to serve in the Navy rather than fight a case that came under the old rule. B8
 
TEST FOR RACKETEERING LAW
The Government's failure to convict a lawyer for using money from drug trafficking to mine gold in Alaska left the Supreme Court considering this question: when does an activity have a sufficient connection with interstate commerce to justify prosecution under the Federal racketeering law? A23
 
DANGER IN PICKUP'S DESIGN
Transportation Secretary Federico Pena set the stage for a possible recall of older General Motors pickup trucks when he said a two-year investigation showed that they posed a fire hazard when struck from the side. A18
 
FORD RECALLS 2 MODELS AGAIN
For the second time in two months, the Ford Motor Company is recalling its new Contour and Mystique models for fuel system flaws that could cause fires. A18
 
COMPLAINTS AT SIMPSON'S TRIAL
As jury selection continued in the double murder trial of O. J. Simpson, a sister of Nicole Brown Simpson complained about people trying to profit from her family's loss by selling Halloween masks. A20
 
A new challenge to credibility of Tailhook whistle-blower. A22
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CASTRO'S CAMPAIGN BATTLE
Bernadette Castro, the embattled Republican nominee for the Senate, said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato had steered contributors away from her campaign and told her he would not help her. A1
 
PLAN TO REORGANIZE POLICE
A task force has recommended a sweeping reorganization of the police force that would raise standards for recruitment and require monthly performance evaluations of officers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-13
 
Japan jumps into the race to probe oceanic depths. C1
 
An oral treatment gives hope for beating autoimmune diseases. C1
 
Plans to combat the filth of the Ganges founder in India. C1
 
Plant inventories show blows of Staten Island urbanization. C4
 
Fashion Pages B12-13
 
Valentino in his element: glamour without camp. B12
 
The message from Chanel: dress to seduce. B13
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
For Channel 13, change brings a chill. C15
 
Theater: Sellars's "Merchant of Venice." C15
 
Music: Dutoit's Montrealers. C15
 
Books: About Walter Winchell and the power of gossip. C19
 
Television: "Frontline: School Colors." C20
 
Sports B15-20
 
Baseball: Former major leaguer dying of AIDS. B15
 
Basketball: Oakley is ailing. B15
 
Football: Reeves ponders quarterback change. B15
 
Obituaries B14
 
David L. Ladd, expert on patents and copyrights.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
Kohl again, underwhelmingly.
 
Cheating on base closings.
 
Stalking Stickley, pursuing Ming.
 
Who's delaying the test ban?
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Time to fear and hate.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The Peace Prize winners.
 
Bruce S. Rosen: The Whitman shuffle.
 
Nicholson Baker: Infohighwaymen.
 
Chess C11
 
Chronicle B26
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ARMED FORCES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); NAVIES (73%); BRITISH ROYALTY (72%); LAWYERS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); CHILDREN (66%); POLICE FORCES (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); PRINCE CHARLES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



435 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
A Sermon on Child Neglect and Crime

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., Oct. 17

 BODY:
President Clinton flew west today to give a speech to police chiefs about crime. But by its end, he had instead spun an angry sermon on the nation's duty to a generation of children whose hearts, he said, were being "turned to stone" by violence and neglect.
Asked if the President had strayed from his prepared text, the White House press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, replied, "He sure did." 
 But hardly anyone seemed displeased by the digression, which showcased Mr. Clinton in the role he plays best: a preacher, speaking with undisguised passion on an issue that engages him.
After concluding a speech devoted largely to recent Federal anti-crime legislation, Mr. Clinton finally said the words, "I'd like to end today." But he did not. Instead, expanding on a theme he had made early in his speech, that "random violence among young people, people under the age of 18, is going up dramatically in sickening ways," the President spoke without notes for perhaps 10 minutes more.
"You now have the tools to deal with this problem," he said to the chiefs, referring to the anti-crime bill, "but you've got a whole country out there full of people who have to help. Parents have to recognize that the real war on crime begins at home. If the first responsibility of government is to provide law and order, the first responsibility of parents is to teach right from wrong."
Recalling recent news accounts of a 5-year-old boy in Chicago who was pushed to his death by two 10-year-olds because he had refused to steal candy for them, the President wondered aloud how young children could become so cold-hearted, and then he answered his own question.
"Kids are going to look up to somebody, and it's up to the adults in this country to decide who they're going to look up to," he said. The 5-year-old looked up to parents who had taught him the difference between right and wrong, Mr. Clinton said, but "who did the other two kids look up to? Who did they come in contact with who could have taught them right from wrong, and didn't?"
"What about that little kid who was set on fire?" he asked, referring to a report that two children, ages 10 and 11, had been convicted of dousing a toddler with gasoline and setting him afire. "Who taught those children right from wrong?"
The President said children learned such horrific behavior from adults.
"These kids are looking up to somebody," he said. "Who are they going to look up to? How are they going to learn this? We can hire five million police officers. And if we keep losing the battle for what these kids think is right and wrong, we're going to be in a lot of trouble."
The nation need not worry, Mr. Clinton said, if it rolls up its sleeves and sets about saving its young people.
"But what we must be worried about is wave upon wave upon wave of these little children, who don't have somebody both good and strong to look up to, who are so vulnerable that their hearts can be turned to stone by the time they're 10 or 11 years old. And when there is a good one -- a 5- or 10-year-old kid in difficult circumstances, blooming like a flower in the desert, knowing that it's wrong to steal candy -- he actually has his life at risk."
The White House says that the issue of adults' responsibility to children is a favorite of the President, and he has touched on it from time to time, most recently in speeches to black ministers in New Orleans last month and at a black church outside Washington this summer.
But Mr. Clinton has been looking for a chance to emphasize that the issue is not confined to one slice of the population, and today he found it.
Although crime is the top domestic issue in this campaign season, the White House officially called Mr. Clinton's appearance at the annual meeting of the International Association of Chiefs of Police nonpolitical. In his prepared remarks, the President talked about the $30 billion anticrime legislation's provisions to help finance the hiring of 100,000 new officers and the construction of 100,000 prison cells in the next six years; about its "three strikes" provision that imprisons some violent offenders for life after a third conviction, and about its bevy of new death-penalty offenses and prevention programs for young people at risk of becoming criminals.
He also mentioned that "in this election season there are many who are campaigning on a 'Contract with America,' " and they, he said, could "indirectly" derail his efforts against crime by rendering the Government too broke to pay for it. The many are about 300 Republican candidates for Congress whose self-described contract effectively pledges to return the nation to the economic policies of the Reagan Administration, like tax cuts, increased military spending and the balancing of the Federal budget.
Mr. Clinton also restated several points he had made in campaign speeches this fall, reminding the police chiefs that he had cut the Federal work force, streamlined Federal purchasing rules, helped bring peace to Haiti, Northern Ireland, the Middle East and Eastern Europe and had persuaded the Russians to point their nuclear missiles somewhere other than the United States.
Mr. Clinton's extemporaneous remarks were met with applause from the police chiefs, who, as he has noted, support many of the programs in the crime legislation that intended to keep youngsters out of trouble.
Mr. Clinton also brought the chiefs a present, a new $226 million program that would help large departments start recruiting and hiring new officers before the bulk of the Federal grants under the crime bill begin flowing to them.
A related initiative announced today would allow small police departments to seek grants for new officers by way of a short form that asks only the most basic information about the department, like its size and the starting salary of an officer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The first responsibility of government is to provide law and order," President Clinton said in extemporaneous remarks yesterday, but "the first responsibility of parents is to teach right from wrong." Mr. Clinton spoke in Albuquerque, N.M., at a meeting of the International Association of Chiefs of Police. (Eliza Wells Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHIEFS OF POLICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHIEFS OF POLICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); FIRES (63%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



436 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE ECONOMY;
Democrats Getting No Lift From a Rising Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The politics in Tennessee epitomizes one of the paradoxes of this unusual election year: The economy is thriving, but President Clinton and the Democrats who support his economic program are getting no credit for it.
The economy here is the strongest in the state's history. The unemployment rate, 4.7 percent in August, is well below the national rate. More than 80,000 new jobs were created last year alone, and the economic research center at the University of Tennessee is forecasting 130,000 more by the end of next year. 
 An analysis last month in The Memphis Business Journal began this way: "As the state enters the middle 1990's, it finds itself riding a wave of economic success that is the envy of much of the nation."
But although Mr. Clinton and his Tennessee running mate, Al Gore, carried the state in 1992, in large measure because of hopes that Mr. Clinton could invigorate the economy, nearly two-thirds of Tennesseans questioned in a recent poll said they disapproved of his performance in office.
Of more immediate significance, Senator Jim Sasser, who as chairman of the Budget Committee was instrumental in getting the Clinton program enacted last year, is running about even with a Republican challenger who has never before run for public office.
The Republican, William Frist, is a wealthy 42-year-old heart and lung surgeon whose family started the Hospital Corporation of America and who first registered to vote six years ago.
Mr. Sasser, who is trying for his fourth term and stands a good chance of becoming the Senate Democratic leader if he is re-elected, does not even mention the economy in his television advertisements or campaign speeches. He concentrates instead on his advocacy of tough measures against crime and illegal immigration, his support for prayer in public schools and his potential to use his seniority to bring Federal projects into the state.
The situation in Tennessee -- and in the rest of the country -- runs counter to one of the conventional tenets of American politics: that a healthy economy is good for incumbents.
"If two years ago, you had said the '94 election would take place in a time of widespread recovery and declining unemployment, I would have predicted great times for Clinton and the Democrats," said Geoffrey Garin, a veteran pollster who is working for the Sasser campaign. "And that is especially true in Tennessee, because the economy is so very strong."
But for the President, Senator Sasser and their allies, these are anything but great times. "The President's held in very low regard around here," Mr. Sasser said. Asked why he does not talk more about the economy, the Senator replied, "We don't feel that resonates."
There are many explanations for why Tennessee's prosperity is not helping the Democrats, but one seems overriding. When voters feel secure in their jobs, they are free to fret about other matters -- like Mr. Clinton's character and Mr. Sasser's longevity in Washington.
No one seriously argues that the Clinton policies are largely responsible for the strength of the Tennessee economy. Many other factors, including the state's central geographic position, its low taxes and its low labor costs, have been much more important.
But the prevailing view of economists and other authorities here is that the Clinton Administration's policies have worked very much to the state's economic advantage, particularly the President's deficit-reduction program, his willingness to waive Federal regulations so the state can adopt a new health insurance system that promises to lower the cost to businesses, and his advocacy of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
In part because of the promise of Nafta, for example, exports to Mexico from Tennessee increased almost 150 percent from 1991 to 1993.
"Everybody should be proud of Clinton's economic program," said Gov. Ned McWherter, a popular Democrat who is retiring this year after two terms in which he concentrated on improving the state's business climate. "There is no question it's helping our economy."
But across the state, Tennesseans who themselves are doing very well hardly express such pride.
Mike Kitzmiller, a Cadillac dealer in Nashville who said his own business was the best it had ever been, expressed what seemed to be the public consensus. "The Federal Government," he said, "doesn't have a damn thing to do with the economy of Tennessee."
Dr. Frist, a tireless campaigner who seems prepared to spend a sizable amount of his own money on the race, is basing his campaign on his belief that most Tennesseans agree.
Speaking of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Sasser, Dr. Frist said, "The economy has gotten better on their watch; I'll grant them that." But much more important, he said, was this: "People are mad at the present direction of the country. People are mad at welfare. They see help-wanted signs up all over Tennessee. And they are mad that people can make more money on public assistance."
Senator Sasser's problem, Dr. Frist said in an interview, is that he has been in Washington so long that he has lost touch with Tennessee.
A poll taken over the Columbus Day weekend by Mason-Dixon Opinion Research for several of the state's newspapers and television stations showed Mr. Sasser leading Dr. Frist 43 percent to 40 percent, with 6 percent favoring an independent candidate and 11 percent undecided. The difference was within the poll's four-point margin of sampling error.
In the race for the other Senate seat, the one vacated by Mr. Gore when he became Vice President, the poll showed that the Republican candidate, Fred Dalton Thompson, had opened a slight lead. Mr. Thompson, a lawyer, lobbyist and part-time actor, regularly criticizes his Democratic opponent, Representative Jim Cooper, for having voted last year for the Clinton deficit-reduction bill.
Mr. Cooper is doing everything he can to distance himself from the President. He emphasizes that he was one of only six Democrats to vote for a Republican alternative to the Clinton budget that supposedly would have reduced the deficit somewhat less but without raising taxes. Mr. Cooper voted for the Clinton plan, he said, only as a last resort after the Republican measure failed.
"The public has a good reason to be upset with the direction our country is headed in over all," Mr. Cooper said in an interview. "The prosperity may not last."
That is not the view of economists who follow what is happening in Tennessee. "The way I see it, we are settling in for a period of moderate, sustainable growth," said Andrew Krikelas, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, who pays close attention to Tennessee.
But voters in this state, as in most of the rest of the country, seem inclined this year to focus on what is wrong rather than what is right.
"When the economy is bad, then people worry about their jobs," said Jeff Clark, a professor at Middle Tennessee State University who keeps track of public opinion polls in the state. "But when everybody has a job, then the economy is not their main concern."
National polls underscore that view. In January 1993, the month Mr. Clinton took office, the national unemployment rate was 7.1 percent. A New York Times/CBS News Poll found that 44 percent of those questioned said the economy was the country's most serious problem.
By last month, with the national unemployment rate standing at 5.9 percent, a four-year low, only 15 percent said the economy was the most serious problem, well behind crime.
Nowhere is this phenomenon more apparent than in Nashville, one of the nation's boom cities. The unemployment rate here is only 3.2 percent, and those out of work are mostly unemployed briefly between jobs. "Anyone who wants a job here can have one," said Marguerite Sallee, chairwoman of the Nashville Chamber of Commerce.
But when people in business here talk about politics, they do not think of the economy but about "their disappointment in Clinton's leadership," Ms. Sallee said.
Howard H. Baker Jr., the former Senate Republican leader who now practices law in Knoxville, put the situation more in terms of the politics of a midterm election. "The Clinton drag is substantial," he said. Expressing a view held by politicians here from both parties, Mr. Baker added: "The drag is based on character, not issues. People decided they didn't trust him, and that seems to override the economy, world peace, everything."
As for Senator Sasser, he had a set of charts emphasizing the strength of the economy that he used in speeches around the state early this year. But he abandoned the charts and the speeches about the economy several months ago. "There just wasn't much energy in that approach," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tennessee is riding a wave of economic success, but Senator Jim Sasser, a Democrat running for re-election, does not emphasize the economy in his campaign speeches anymore. "We don't feel that resonates," he said, explaining why he abandoned that approach several months ago. In a hangar at the Knoxville airport, Sasser supporters awaited the Senator's arrival at a campaign rally last week. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. B10)
 
Chart: "CONTRAST AND COMPARE: Tennessee's Economy" shows rise in Tennessee's personal income, increase in nonagriculture jobs and unemployment rate as of August '94. (Sources: Univ. of Tenn. Center for Business and Economy Research, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. B10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (54%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (99%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HCA HOLDINGS INC (54%); HOSPITAL CORP OF AMERICA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (99%); TENNESSEE, USA (99%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HISTORY (77%); BUDGETS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); HOSPITALS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); CHURCH & STATE (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; SASSER, JIM (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRIST, WILLIAM H (DR); THOMPSON, FRED DALTON ; COOPER, JIM (REPR); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JIM COOPER (79%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



437 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Payments to Haiti Will Help Ex-Military Find New Jobs

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
The United States will give Haiti $216 million during the coming year, some of which will be used to provide jobs for members of the widely hated armed forces, a Clinton Administration official said today.
The Clinton Administration has agreed to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's request to pay the salaries of soldiers not chosen for a new, 1,500-member Haitian military, and ultimately to provide them with other jobs, said Brian Atwood, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. 
 Under Father Aristide's economic reconstruction program, jobs will be guaranteed to members of the armed forces, many of whom are reviled by the population.
Mr. Atwood called the support for individual soldiers "a very delicate program" that was controversial but preferable to letting them go without compensation. "We don't want them to go back and pick up arms and go into the hills," he said. "We have to pull the teeth from this dragon."
The $216 million in United States assistance also includes $32 million for development of local police forces to replace the combined 7,000-member military police force that is to be dismantled.
The American program is the largest share of the $550 million that the World Bank estimated Haiti would need this year. The rest will come from international lending institutions and other donor nations.
The United States is providing $42.2 million to feed 1.3 million people and to provide health care. Other American aid will go to: helping prepare for elections, $11.3 million; reforming the justice system, $7.5 million; local governance and other social and democratic assistance, $15.7 million; helping protect the currency against instability caused by a trade deficit, $45 million; contributing to Haiti's international debt payment, $25 million, and providing emergency economic recovery aid, $17.3 million.
Mr. Atwood said the American funds would also provide 900,000 textbooks and other school supplies, pay for a large-scale child immunization program and go toward reversing soil erosion and deforestation that has left much of Haiti's land in too poor a condition to farm.
The financial infusion is designed to make the biggest impact in the next four months. American aid to Haiti is expected to drop off to $90 million in the second year, Mr. Atwood said.
Under the military program, for which $5 million has been allocated, the records of the current Haitian armed forces will be reviewed to see which members are acceptable for the new military, Mr. Atwood said. During the time the review takes, the United States will pay the salaries of the current force. Members who are not accepted into the new military will be helped by United States-funded jobs programs, which are expected to employ 50,000 Haitians overall, Mr. Atwood said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (95%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); DEFORESTATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%); EROSION (51%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (50%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: ATWOOD, BRIAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



438 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: IN MOSCOW;
Russians Make Their Voice Heard

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Inevitably, there were handshakes and smiles all around today in New York as the Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, met his American counterpart, Warren M. Christopher.
But after a week of not-so-private squabbling over Mr. Kozyrev's trip to Baghdad and his possible deal with the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein, the Americans are being polite through clenched teeth. They are trying to insure that Russia's intervention, and its efforts to get the United Nations oil embargo on Iraq lifted after a six-month "trial period," do not get in the way of Washington's policy. 
 But Mr. Kozyrev has already achieved a goal as important to Moscow as any Iraqi deal. He has got the world's attention, insuring once more, as in Bosnia, that Russia's voice and views get the hearing Moscow thinks it deserves as a nuclear superpower with global interests.
Part of the American difficulty is the desire not to offend Russia and President Boris N. Yeltsin, whose authority can seem shaky from time to time and whose main challenge comes from ultranationalists eager to see slights to Russia. American officials understand that displays of independence by the Russians do Mr. Yeltsin good, but the Americans rarely pretend to like it.
In a similar way, the Bush Administration tried to be polite as Mikhail S. Gorbachev, already teetering, made last-minute efforts to avoid the 1991 Persian Gulf War, the last time Moscow tried high-profile Mideast diplomacy.
The difficulty for Washington today is that in Iraq, as in Bosnia, the Russians do not really stand alone. Their position is not very far from that of other Security Council members, in this case, France, China, and to some degree, Britain, all of which want to restore economic, energy and trade ties to Iraq and avoid an American attack.
The United States has come to a grudging appreciation for Russian efforts in the former Yugoslavia, but Russian officials say privately that Washington regards the Iraq-Kuwait problem as an "American show," despite efforts at preserving a "United Nations umbrella."
Saturday night provided a good example of the tensions. The Americans forced a Security Council vote on a resolution demanding that Iraq pull its troops back from the Kuwaiti border and not threaten its neighbors again. The Russians vainly asked for a delay, so Mr. Kozyrev could report in person on his Middle East trip, but then voted for the resolution anyway.
Russia has been calling for a relaxation of the United Nations embargo on Iraq for some time, in part because it is short of cash and is owed some $10 billion by Baghdad for equipment, arms and old loans. Moscow is also eager to to sell new oil-drilling equipment to Iraq, to help rebuild the country and to resupply Baghdad's mostly Soviet-equipped military.
But Moscow's commercial ambitions are shared by other countries, including France, Britain, China, Turkey, Japan and Germany, which was Iraq's largest source of imports before sanctions were imposed in 1990.
In fact, as Mr. Hussein was sending troops to the Kuwaiti border, the Iraqi Oil Minister was in Moscow to discuss a potential $2.5 billion in contracts with Russia's two largest oil companies, Lukoil and Rosneft. The pro-Yeltsin newspaper Izvestia cautioned Russian officials not to be hasty, given that Mr. Hussein's fate is unclear and that his successors might not appreciate Moscow's zeal, and then Russia would not get its money back anyway.
But the newspaper Kuranty saw clear gains for Russia and its interests in trying to gingerly take Baghdad's point of view. "We have room for maneuver," the paper wrote. "Given the right approach, Russia, a 'regional power,' may make its way through an opening too narrow for the broad-shouldered diplomats of a superpower."
Last week in Baghdad, Mr. Kozyrev declared a breakthrough, saying Iraq had agreed to recognize Kuwait and its borders. Mr. Kozyrev said there were no conditions, but promised renewed efforts by Moscow to convince the United Nations to lift sanctions after a six-month test. Mr. Kozyrev has said that to prolong the embargoes when Iraq is in compliance is not justice but a form of "revenge."
Kuwaiti officials were cool, bluntly demanding concrete assurances that their sovereignty and borders would be recognized and protected. And Washington rejected the idea, wanting to separate Iraqi troop withdrawals entirely from the issue of sanctions.
But there has been growing pressure, not only from Russia, to ease the embargoes on Iraq. Russian officials admit that differences between Washington and its other Western allies give Moscow more room for diplomacy.
Similarly, in the former Yugoslavia, Russia's efforts to drag its putative allies and Slavic brothers, the Serbs, into some kind of peace agreement found support from France and Britain, whose troops are on the ground with the United Nations and could be the first to suffer in a renewed, full-scale conflict.
After much annoyance in Washington, including a series of Russian complaints about not being fully consulted or informed, the Clinton Administration decided that on balance Moscow's intervention in the former Yugoslavia was beneficial, even crucial. The two countries have tried, with mixed success, to talk tough to the two sides but in tandem.
Whenever President Clinton has come close to a unilateral lifting of the arms embargo against the Bosnian Muslims, as Congress wants but the rest of the Security Council does not, Russia has helped to dissuade him, or at least to provide him a justification for not lifting it. And for that Moscow has already earned the gratitude of London and Paris.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia talked to reporters here after meeting with Secretary of State Warren Christopher about Iraq. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



439 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Accept Case Testing the Reach of a Racketeering Law

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
The Government's effort to convict a former Federal prosecutor for using drug trafficking proceeds to mine gold in Alaska presented the Supreme Court today with an important legal question: when does an activity have a sufficient connection with interstate commerce to justify prosecution under the Federal racketeering law?
A Federal appeals court earlier this year threw out the former Government lawyer's conviction under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act on the ground that the gold produced by the mine was not sold outside Alaska and that the Government had not proved that the operation had more than a minimal or incidental effect on interstate commerce. 
 The Justices agreed today to hear the prosecution's appeal, in which the Government argued that the appeals court had set so stringent a definition of interstate commerce as to cast doubt on the usefulness of other Federal laws ranging from consumer protection to civil rights, as well as other criminal laws. Like the racketeering law, usually known as RICO, numerous other laws limit Federal jurisdiction to activities that affect interstate commerce.
Most courts have interpreted this requirement in a way that is easy for the Government to satisfy; a company whose executives travel, or that orders supplies and equipment from another state, easily meets the test.
For instance, in a RICO case five years ago, involving the theft of police department examinations, Justice Stephen G. Breyer, then a judge on the Federal appeals court in Boston, ruled that jurisdiction could be based on factors like the use of out-of-state consultants and the replacement of locks on doors with new locks shipped to Massachusetts from Pennsylvania.
But in the gold-mining case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, refused to accept as a basis for jurisdiction the fact that the defendant hired employees and bought supplies from other states and flew in and out of Alaska in a plane he bought for that purpose. "Given that Alaska is fairly isolated," the appeals court said, businesses there obtain many supplies from elsewhere but should not for that reason alone be seen as operating in interstate commerce.
In its appeal, U.S. v. Robertson, No. 94-251, the Government told the Supreme Court that the Ninth Circuit was alone among the Federal appeals courts in refusing to accept the movement of people or supplies across state lines as adequate for jurisdiction in a RICO prosecution.
The defendant in this case, Juan Paul Robertson, became a criminal defense lawyer after serving as an Assistant United States Attorney in Los Angeles. He became a drug dealer, and his conviction for cocaine dealing was upheld in an aspect of the case that did not involve the racketeering law. He stole a client's car after the client told him that there were two kilograms of cocaine and $980,000 in cash in the trunk. Mr. Robertson used this and other drug money to finance his gold-mining operation.
Since the days of the New Deal, courts have generally defined interstate commerce broadly enough to validate the Federal Government's regulatory or prosecutorial efforts, and it is unusual for the Government to lose a case on this basis. This is the second interstate commerce case the Court has accepted for review this term.
The other case is a Government appeal from a ruling that struck down a 1990 law that prohibits the possession of a gun within 1,000 feet of a school. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, found that the law was beyond the power of Congress to enact because there was no requirement that the gun had traveled in interstate commerce. That case, U.S. v. Lopez, will be argued next month.
There were also these developments at the Court today.
 
Randall Terry's Appeal
 Without comment, the Court turned down an appeal by Randall Terry, the leader of the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue, from a conviction for criminal contempt of court. During the 1992 Democratic National Convention in New York, Mr. Terry defied a Federal court injunction and arranged for a follower to confront Bill Clinton, then the Governor of Arkansas, and thrust at him a plastic container holding a human fetus.
Mr. Terry, who took credit for the incident and received a five-month jail term, challenged his conviction on the ground that Robert Abrams, then the New York State Attorney General, should not have been permitted to prosecute the case in Federal court. Mr. Abrams was appointed to handle the case after the Federal prosecutor in New York, Otto G. Obermaier, asked to be excused on the basis of the Bush Administration's view that Federal courts lacked authority to issue injunctions against anti-abortion protests. The case was Terry v. U.S., No.94-141.
 
Airport Limits
 The Court also turned down an appeal by Kansas that challenged the Wright Amendment, a Federal law limiting airline service at Love Field, an airport in Dallas. The law, enacted in 1979 to steer passengers to the more distant Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, prohibits direct service into Love Field from any place beyond Texas and its four immediate neighbors -- Louisiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma and New Mexico.
Passengers from beyond those four states who want to fly into Love Field must change planes at an airport in one of the contiguous states, buy separate tickets for each leg of the trip, and may not check their baggage through to their final destination. In addition, airlines and travel agents may not advertise connections through Love Field.
The law was challenged by a group of Kansas passengers and by the State, which argued that the law amounted to an "air blockade" of Kansas that shut the state out of "an airport of tremendous economic importance" to the region. The State's arguments, based on the constitutional right to travel, the First Amendment and other grounds, failed in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The case was Kansas v. U.S., No. 93-2018.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); OPERATION RESCUE

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); OPERATION RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; ; NEW YORK CITY; KANSAS; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; GOLD; ABORTION ; CONTEMPT ACTIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LOVE FIELD (DALLAS); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DALLAS-FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; MINES AND MINING INTERSTATE COMMERCE (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); JURISDICTION (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); COCAINE (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); POLICE FORCES (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); AIRLINES (61%); AIRPORTS (61%); 

PERSON: ROBERTSON, JUAN PAUL; TERRY, RANDALL ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) STEPHEN BREYER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



440 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Markets Opened By Mexico

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Taking a final step to open Mexico's financial markets to the world, the Government announced tonight that it would allow 46 foreign banks, securities firms and insurance companies to begin operations here.
The Minister of Finance, Pedro Aspe Armella, said the foreign companies that gained places in the growing Mexican financial-services market were expected to start doing business here by next June. 
 Though the Government did not act on 50 pending applications to set up mutual funds and other kinds of financial enterprises, it sanctioned nearly all the banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies that applied. It also approved the creation of five financial groups and a leasing company.
The welcoming to banks like J. P. Morgan, Citibank and Chemical Banking represents a milestone in the economic restructuring begun in 1985 and expanded under the six-year Administration of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who is to leave office on Dec. 1.
Only a dozen years ago, having defaulted on its foreign debt, the Government nationalized 18 of the country's 20 banks, helping to plunge the economy into six years of inflationary chaos. The opening of Mexico's financial industry was considered a big victory for the United States in negotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement.
What would have been unthinkable not so long ago, however, is unlikely to have striking effects now. Because foreign bankers and brokers are expected to focus their business somewhat narrowly and will be limited in the market share they can gain, many analysts believe competition will increase only gradually.
"This is certainly going to have an impact," the deputy Finance Secretary in charge of banking, Guillermo Ortiz Martinez, said tonight. "I don't think it is going to have a dramatic impact or one that happens overnight. But it will certainly contribute to greater competition and lower margins."
Mr. Aspe said the foreign financial companies would bring Mexico $1.2 billion in direct foreign investment. Despite the trade agreement's implementation in January, new foreign investment in Mexico this year had totaled a somewhat disappointing $8.9 billion as of the end of August, compared with $15.6 billion for all of 1993.
"It's a vote of confidence for the Government that all these companies are willing to put up the money to come and start an office," said Stefano Natella, the director of Latin American research at CS First Boston in New York.
"But from a business point of view, I'm not so sure," he added. "Is there a lot of business that these companies are going to be able to do now that they were not able to do before? In some sectors, competition is already extremely brisk."
Under the terms of the trade accord, American and Canadian banks and brokerages are to receive the same treatment from the Government as their local competitors. To attract more investors, the Salinas Administration extended that protection to other foreign applicants.
The significant catch is that each foreign bank will be restricted in the amount of risk assets that they may bring to Mexico; none can gain more than a 1.5 percent share of the market. As a whole, foreign brokerages are limited to a 10 percent market share. Foreign banks may have only 8 percent of the market this year, with the figure rising to 15 percent by 2000. Thereafter, the Government can restrain their business if the figure rises above 25 percent.
The 18 commercial banks that were approved from an initial list of 20 foreign applicants are expected to concentrate on sophisticated, high-return products like corporate lending, advisory services, securitizations and derivatives contracts.
Their prospective clients are Mexico's biggest industrial and service companies, some of which are already borrowing money in the United States. And they are hardly catching the strongest Mexican banks off-guard: For instance, Grupo Financiero Banamex-Accival, the owner of the country's largest bank, Banco Nacional de Mexico, has already entered into one strategic alliance with Swiss Bank for derivatives products, and another with Bank One of Columbus, Ohio, for credit cards.
Government officials argue that the advent of so many new participants will help to lower Mexico's high interest rates. But some analysts said they were not so sure.
"These banks are mainly going to be competing with the handful of Mexican banks that do investment banking and have an international presence," said Laura Z. Berdeja, senior banking analyst at the Mexico City branch of Baring Securities. "There is not much more that rates can come down on the corporate side. There, we are already very close to international standards."
Similarly, business is unlikely to undergo radical change at the 16 approved securities firms, which include American companies like Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers and Goldman, Sachs, as well as Europeans like James Capel and Baring.
"For the U.S. houses that already have significant trading activity in Mexican stocks in New York, most of what there will be is a moving of that activity to Mexico," said Justin Manson, who will open a brokerage for Morgan Stanley. "You will have a physical presence. You're much closer to what's going on." Other United States financial companies that received permission to operate in Mexico include American Express, Chase Manhattan, Bankers Trust, Bank of America, Bear Stearns, Reliance National Insurance, American Bankers Insurance and Windsor Insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (62%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (62%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); LEASING INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BONDS (70%); 

PERSON: ASPE ARMELLA, PEDRO (MIN); GOLDEN, TIM CARLOS SALINAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



441 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
TRAVELERS INC. (TRV,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Travelers Inc. said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings rose 28 percent as increased revenue from its consumer-lending and insurance businesses offset declines at Smith Barney, its brokerage firm.
Net income rose to $331.3 million, or 97 cents a share, compared with $258.7 million, or $1.03 a share, in 1993, which was a third-quarter record. However, earnings per share fell because the number of shares increased 31 percent. 
 The results were below analysts' expectations of $1.01 a share, according to Zacks Investment Research. "It's not that bad," a Salomon Brothers analyst, Thomas Facciola, said.
The results at Travelers, one of the largest financial-services companies, reflect the national economy to a degree. As the economy improves, Americans are borrowing and spending more often. That increased activity has hurt securities firms by prompting the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates to slow inflation or to ward off perceptions of future inflation.
The 1993 results include only the former Primerica Corporation, which merged with the Travelers Corporation at the end of last year and renamed itself Travelers Inc.
Travelers' consumer-finance division made $59.4 million, up 10 percent. Life insurance operations almost tripled to $148.3 million. And the property- and casualty-insurance division's earnings rose 62 percent, to $381.2 million.
But earnings at Smith Barney fell 39 percent, to $72.9 million, Travelers said, reflecting the difficult securities markets and increased expenses related to the addition of Shearson on July 31, 1993.
In recent months, Smith Barney has cut expenses by paring about 75 members of its capital-market group, which includes traders and investment bankers.

GRAPHIC: Table: "TRAVELERS INC. (TRV,N)"

Qtr. to Sept. 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	4,714,200,000	2,015,700,000	+134	Net inc.	331,300,000	b258,700,000	+28.1	Sh. earn	.97	1.03	 	Sh. out.	321,000,000	244,300,000	 	9m rev.	14,084,100,000	4,601,600,000	+206	Net inc.	991,600,000	c617,700,000	+60.5	Sh. earn	2.88	2.54	 	Sh. out.	323,200,000	235,400,000	 	
 
b-Included investment portfolio gains of $85.2 million and a $65 million one-time charge related to the Shearson acquisition. Net income also included a gain of $4.4 million on sales of stock of subsidiaries and affiliates.
c-Included gains of $8.1 million on sales of stock of subsidiaries and affiliates. Net income is also after charges of $17.7 million and $16.7 million for the cumulative effects of accounting changes for retirement benefits amounting to 15 cents a share.
The nine months' results included realized gains of 1 cent a share, compared with 46 cents a share in the similar period of 1993.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$32.50
Down 37.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: C (NYSE) (93%); C (BMV) (93%); 8710 (TSE) (93%); TRV (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS INC CITIGROUP INC (93%); TRAVELERS INC (93%); TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (90%); TRAVELERS CORP (69%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVELERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



442 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
 
Mexico will allow 46 foreign finanicial companies to begin operations. The opening of the financial-services market represents a milestone in the redesign of the Mexican economy. [Page D1.] 

German bond prices and the mark surged as investors were relieved by the narrow election victory of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and his coalition. The mark battered an already weak dollar, which fell to a two-year low against the mark. [D1.]
The involvement of gangsters may compound the troubles of Japan's banking industry. A bailout of a small credit association found a bank with heavy ties to organized crime. [D1.]
 
Companies
 
Paine Webber will try to absorb Kidder, Peabody by focusing on workmanlike issues -- in particular, back-office operations. But some analysts say the acquisition could still be costly. [D1.]
General Electric's sale of Kidder was quicker and cheaper than had been expected. In all, G.E. expects a $500 million write-off, probably in the fourth quarter, to cover the transaction. [D6.]
Never a follower of fashion, Talbots still impresses, posting higher sales amid a slump in women's apparel. The recent success of traditionalist stores like Talbots and Ann Taylor -- as well as Sears and J. C. Penney -- suggests that fashion trends are no longer in the driver's seat in the women's apparel business. [D1.]
Matsushita may be more interested in selling control of MCA than its announcements suggest, people close to both companies said. Executives from the two companies will meet this week. [D2.]
Intel said earnings rose 13 percent in the third quarter. But gross profit margins declined during the quarter. [D4.]
The Federal pension agency moved to take over the pension plan of Western Union, an action that threatens to derail the plan of New Valley, the parent, to emerge from bankruptcy. [D4.]
Shares of Procyte and Gensia plunged after the companies said their most important drugs had flunked human tests.[D4.]
Micron Technology will acquire Zeos International, a telephone-order supplier of personal computers. [D4.]
AT&T will acquire Alascom of Alaska in a $365 million deal. [D4.]
Apple Computer reported strong earnings that surpassed Wall Street estimates. But its stock fell in heavy trading. [D9.]
A Federal inquiry has found that older G.M. pickup trucks posed a fire hazard because of their side-saddle fuel tanks. [A18.]
Ford is recalling its Contour and Mystique compact sedans. [A18.]
New York State officials are trying to sell a takeover of Lilco, but company officials and others are skeptical of the plan. [B6]
The Economy Business inventories rose 1 percent in August despite rising sales. The report provided fresh evidence of economic strength. [D2.]
 
Markets
 
Blue-chip stocks advanced, while the broader market was down. [D10.]
Treasury prices ended flat after recouping earlier losses prompted by a sharp decline in value of the dollar. [D20.]
Coffee prices jumped on concerns about drought in Brazil. [D21.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Indexes from Standard & Poor's and Russell have battled for supremacy in the eyes of institutional investors. Now S.& P. plans a 1,500 index to take on the Russell 2,000, and attract managers of small stock index funds. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
Marketers have seen the future of media, and it makes them uneasy. Their anxieties about interactivity and other new data technology are being addressed at a conference of the Association of National Advertisers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); WU (NYSE) (53%); MU (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); INTEL CORP (54%); WESTERN UNION CO (53%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); PRODUCT RECALLS (60%); 

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (58%); HELMUT KOHL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



443 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 13.46 in a Blue-Chip-Only Rally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks continued their gains yesterday, the sixth advance out of seven sessions, but most of the leading stock indexes dropped slightly. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 13.46 points, to 3,923.93, putting it about 1 percent away from its peak for the year.
The wider market was almost equally balanced between winners and losers. On the New York Stock Exchange, 11 stocks declined for every 10 that advanced. 
 The Dow's rise was concentrated in just four stocks, International Paper, Bethlehem Steel, Philip Morris and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing. Eighteen of 30 Dow component stocks rose yesterday.
"Except for the Dow, it was basically a boring, flat day," said Dirk van Dijk, equity strategist for C. H. Dean & Associates in Dayton, Ohio. One possible reason for the wider stock slide was a sharp decline in the value of the dollar, which discourages foreigners from buying American stocks because assets bought in dollars decline in value when converted to their native currency. Stock traders will thus have a new focus for worry when the August trade deficit figures are released tomorrow.
The trade figures matter because the dollars paid by Americans for Japanese, German and other foreign goods are often converted to yen, marks and other currencies. The resulting glut of unwanted dollars has led to record lows against major currencies.
The dollar fell against most major currencies yesterday, but especially so against the German mark. In the German elections Sunday, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Government coalition barely held onto a parliamentary majority.
The narrowness of the Kohl victory ought to have pulled down the value of the mark, but instead put downward pressure on the dollar, which fell to a two-year low against the mark. Currency traders have apparently come to the conclusion that Germany, at least for now, will continue to offer higher interest rates than the United States, making Germany a more attractive place to invest. Since Feb. 8, when the dollar hit its peak for the year against the mark, the dollar has lost almost 15 percent of its value. Still, the Dow was almost back to its recent peak of 3,953.88, set on Sept. 15, and only 1.36 percent away from the peak for the year of 3,978.36 on Jan. 31. Hitting or even exceeding the peak of Jan. 31 is possible this week, but it is likely to be a short-lived stay at the top unless the wider market follows.
The other leading stock indexes fell yesterday. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 dropped 0.14 point, to 468.96. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 1.3 point, to 765.78. The S.& P. 500's high is 482, on Feb. 2, and the Nasdaq's peak is 803.93, on March 18.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was below normal with 238.5 million shares changing hands, about 17 percent below this year's average of 287 million shares. For unknown reasons, Mondays tend to be low-volume days on which stock prices sometimes, but not always, fall.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.03 point, to 257.96, with advancing stocks lagging declining stocks by 1057 to 1129. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 0.26 point to 458.76.
Of the 500 component stocks that make up the S.& P. 500, 259 stocks fell, led by Wal-Mart, which dropped 3/8, to 23 3/4.
The most-active stock, at 7.1 million shares, was Intel, which fell 5/16 , in advance of its announcement of higher third-quarter earnings.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (57%); MMM (NYSE) (57%); MMM (FRA) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 3M CO (57%); C H DEAN & ASSOCIATES INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE CURRENCIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



444 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Hits a 2-Year Low vs. the Mark

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Buoyed by Sunday's parliamentary election results, the mark rallied today, sending the dollar to a two-year low against the German currency. German bond prices also soared in response to the narrow election victory of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and his coalition Government.
The dollar fell below 1.50 marks, considered a key psychological barrier, to close at 1.495 in late afternoon trading here. In New York it ended at 1.4987, down 1.4 percent from Friday. 
 Stock prices also fell because of profit taking and concern that an overvalued mark would make German industries, which rely heavily on exports, less competitive. Last week, the market had risen in anticipation of a Kohl victory
"The bond market was euphoric today," said Ulrich Ramm, chief economist for the Commerzbank. "Investors welcomed the Kohl victory."
Mr. Kohl's Christian Democratic-led coalition won only a 10-seat majority in the 672-seat Parliament, the narrowest victory in almost four decades of German parliamentary politics.
When early election results indicated his margin was barely two or three seats, bond prices fell sharply because of fear that Mr. Kohl would be unable to implement his policies. Once it became clear that his Government was assured at least a 10-seat majority, investors decided that Mr. Kohl would be able to continue with his economic and fiscal policies, and bond prices soared.
"Clearly, the German election says that the German people want political continuity, steady progress on reducing the budget, experienced hands at the helm," said Richard Reid, chief economist at the Frankfurt office of the Union Bank of Switzerland.
By the end of the day, more than 350,000 bond futures contracts for the 10-year Government bond had changed hands on the Frankfurt and London exchanges. Prices on the futures contract rose sharply and interest rates fell.
Currency traders reported that many investors had bought Swiss francs and Dutch guilders in the weeks before the election and that there was a rush back into German marks today. That, plus a surprisingly steep drop in the dollar, sent the American currency to its lowest level in more than two years.
Analysts said many investors had deep reservations about the dollar and the commitment by the Federal Reserve Board, as well as the political establishment in Washington, to adhere to a strict anti-inflation policy. By contrast, the Bundesbank has not wavered in its policy.
"You have a central bank that is absolutely against inflation, realistic plans by the Government to bring down its budget deficit and more years of Kohl," said an economist for a major European bank who insisted on anonymity.
Among the worries about the dollar, analysts said, is that Republicans could win in Congressional elections in the United States next month. "That would generate wide tax cuts, higher budget deficits and more inflation, all weakening the dollar," said another analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity.
"In a sense the dollar has been on a long-term decline against the mark," he said. "Inflation is lower in Germany; real interest rates in Germany are very attractive. Why buy dollars?"
Indeed, fears before the election were that Mr. Kohl's opposition, the Social Democratic Party, would win and usher into Germany the kinds of problems that investors have with ballooning budget deficits and higher inflation in the United States.
However, once polls last week predicted a narrow Kohl victory, investors began buying stocks, pushing up prices as much as 8 percent.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Dollar Slips Widely
 (By Bloomberg Business News) -- The dollar was weaker against most leading currencies in trading in New York yesterday.
"The dollar isn't going north any time soon," said Karl Halligan, vice president for strategic trading at CF-CIC Bank New York. "No one wants to buy it. Everyone wants to sell."
The dollar, which fell to a two-year low against the German mark, also fell to a two-year low of 1.2437 Swiss francs and a two-year low of 5.127 French francs. The British pound jumped as high as $1.6140 today, its highest level since Oct. 26, 1992. It was last quoted at $1.6100, up from $1.5943 on Friday.
Japan's central bank bought dollars to try to stem the dollar's slide against the yen, traders in Tokyo said. The Bank of Japan has spent trillions of yen trying to support the dollar this year. A weak dollar hobbles the Japanese economy by making the country's exports more expensive.
The dollar fell to 97.25 yen in Tokyo trading. In New York yesterday, it was last quoted at 97.65 yen, down from 98.10 on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (82%); UBS (NYSE) (82%); CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (82%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FUTURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (93%); HELMUT KOHL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



445 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Rally To Recoup Early Losses

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury bonds pared early losses that were prompted by a fall in the dollar and ended little changed yesterday.
Bonds began their slide in Asian and European trading yesterday, as the dollar tumbled against the German mark after the narrow victory of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Government coalition in a national election. A weaker dollar makes dollar-denominated assets like Treasury securities less attractive. 
 Bond prices, however, firmed in afternoon trading in New York, as the dollar steadied somewhat against the mark. The afternoon buying reflected moves by some traders to cover short sales, which occur when traders sell borrowed securities in the hope of buying them back at a lower price and profiting on the difference.
"Guys got short at the low end of the range," said Ed Harvey, a trader for First Chicago Capital Markets. "Then the dollar got a little bit of strength and people started covering."
The price of the 30-year Treasury ended up 2/32 , to 9610/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 7.82 percent, from 7.83 percent on Friday.
At yesterday's regular weekly Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills, the rates were unchanged. The Treasury sold $13.143 billion of three-month bills at an average rate of 4.92 percent, the same as in the previous two weeks. The Government also sold $13.067 billion of six-month bills at an average rate of 5.43 percent, the same as in the last week.
The mixed performance yesterday came after two sessions of gains. After reports on producer and consumer prices last week, traders have been increasingly confident that the Federal Reserve will not move again on interest rates until its policy-making committee meets on Nov. 15. The Fed has raised short-term interest rates fives times this year in an effort to slow the pace of inflation.
Bonds could rally by Nov. 15 if economic reports prove to be "surprisingly on the weak side," said Joseph Bench, who manages $400 million for New Castle Advisers in White Plains. The yields on two-year notes could fall as low as 6.25 percent, and the yields on 30-year bonds could fall as low as 7.50 percent, he said.
The optimism that inflation will not accelerate has been "somewhat negated by the weakness in the dollar," said Bernard Jensen, the head United States Government bond trader for Fuji Securities.
The weakness of the dollar, however, could be "a 24-hour wonder," said Charles Quigley, a trader at Chemical Securities in London. United States bonds "will quickly revert to a domestic focus, which probably means a trading range," he said.
The bond market will turn its attention tomorrow to the Government's report on the nation's merchandise trade deficit, which is also an important component of the gross domestic product.
The following are the results of yesterday's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.756	97.300	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.57%	High Price	98.759	97.310	Discounted Rate	4.91%	5.32%	Coupon Yield	5.04%	5.54%	Low Price	98.756	97.300	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.57%	Accepted at low price	36%	50%	Total applied for	$52,402,450	$48,118,314	Accepted	$13,142,546	$13,066,784	Noncompetitive	$1,450,201	$1,189,277	
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 20, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 19, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on April 20, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from July to Oct. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); 

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (58%); HELMUT KOHL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



446 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Inventories in August Increased 1%, U.S. Says

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17

 BODY:
Businesses built up their inventories at a rapid pace in August despite the fastest sales in seven and a half years, the Commerce Department reported today.
Inventories rose 1 percent, the fifth consecutive advance and the biggest since 1.2 percent in May, while sales rose 3 percent, as auto dealers restocked after a July shutdown to retool for 1995 models. 
 The inventory-to-sales ratio was 1.39, equaling an all-time low. That means it would take 1.39 months to exhaust stockpiles at the August sales rate. The ratio was 1.42 in July.
Analysts said the figures were fresh evidence of economic strength, increasing the chances that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates next month. It has already raised rates five times this year.
The Government's first estimate of gross domestic product for the third quarter is due on Oct. 28, and today's report suggests there could be a 3 percent expansion, analysts and others said. The inventory accumulation "is stronger than expected," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York. "The economy continues to push along."
Analysts had generally predicted that inventories would increase four-tenths of 1 percent in August, less than half the actual rise.
The Commerce Department said inventories totaled a seasonally adjusted $903.6 billion in August, up from $894.7 billion. They had risen six-tenths of 1 percent in July and four-tenths of 1 percent in June. Stockpiles have risen throughout 1994, except in March, when they slipped by two-tenths of 1 percent.
The 3 percent increase in sales was the largest since a gain of 4 percent in February 1987. They rose to a seasonally adjusted $649.6 billion from $630.6 billion.
Inventories have been accumulating at a rapid pace for much of the year, but analysts disagree over how much of the buildup is intended. If stockpiles increase too quickly, it could mean slower growth ahead if consumer buying slows.
"There are 67 shopping days till Christmas," remarked Ron Schreibman of the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors. "As long as consumers and businesses keep spending, inventory accumulation will take care of itself."
Retail inventories in August were up to $288 billion, a gain of 2.4 percent and the biggest jump since October 1986, when they rose at the same rate. Stockpiles at the wholesale level rose to $228.5 billion from $226.6 billion, or eight-tenths of 1 percent. Manufacturers' inventories increased to $387.1 billion from $386.6 billion -- a little more than one-tenth of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Inventories-Sales Ratio" shows total month-end business inventories divided by the total monthly business sales from March 1993 to Aug. 1994. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES INVENTORIES (92%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); WHOLESALERS (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



447 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 6; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: For 13, Change Brings A Chill

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
The announcement last week that the "MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour" intended to abandon WNET, the station where the program began 20 years ago, has set off the latest round of doomsaying at Channel 13, New York's long-suffering public television station.
The management of Channel 13 has been through the cycle before: bad financial news, followed by sinking morale among employees, concerns among producers about forthcoming projects and serious questions about the station's long-term future. 
 The response from WNET's management is that the station is a mature institution trying to deal with changes imposed by declining revenues and rising costs. But critics of the station, who include current and former employees and independent program producers, say the current crisis is different because it arises not just from Channel 13's near-chronic lack of funds but also from a lack of vision.
Specifically, they say Channel 13 has ceded its position as the leading provider of the signature programs of public television -- like Ken Burns's "Baseball" and the documentary series "Frontline" -- to other stations, like WETA in Washington and especially WGBH in Boston.
William F. Baker, the president of WNET, has presided over two waves of layoffs at the station in three years, reducing the staff from about 550 to just over 400. The station was forced to cancel locally produced programs and to shut down for 12 hours on the weekends.
The "MacNeil/Lehrer" decision was precipitated by a plan floated by the station in July to shut down its production studio. The same plan compelled another of WNET's signature programs, "Charlie Rose," to seek a new location. Mr. Rose found it, along with what he called more technically advanced yet cheaper facilities, across town in the studios of Bloomberg Financial News.
Mr. Baker acknowledged that the "MacNeil" news was bound to send tremors under his staff's feet again. "When jobs are at risk," he said, "people understandably worry and get angry."
But he added: "We're not falling off the edge of the earth. When you try and turn a mature institution hard aport, it just doesn't turn too easily."
The economic picture for the station is actually reasonably bright, Mr. Baker asserted. The reason for all the recent cost-cutting, he said, has been management's refusal to allow Channel 13 to fall into the red, a problem that afflicts many public television stations.
George Miles, who was the executive vice president of WNET until he took over the leadership of WQED in Pittsburgh this year, said: "If you look at WNET's financial statements, they're sound. I'm in debt over my head. You can only spend what you have."
Mr. Miles said Mr. Baker, who came to WNET in 1987 after a career in commercial broadcasting with Group W, was taking a "businesslike approach" to running Channel 13, characterized by his refusal to allow the station to run deficits. "WNET has not had a deficit in a decade," Mr. Baker said.
But the station has also had no margin for discretionary spending. After raising $104 million last year, Mr. Baker said that all he had as a working margin after expenses was $100,000. He has set out to counter that problem by starting a campaign to build an endowment for WNET, which will provide a yearly financial buffer, based on the interest on the endowment. The station has raised $14 million toward its goal of $40 million.
Mr. Baker also pointed out that Channel 13 was caught up in many problems endemic to public television. Several have to do with money: corporate financing, for example, is down for a second year in a row; Federal financing is flat and probably will not grow significantly, and individual contributions are growing only slightly.
Other problems are institutional, beginning with the almost ludicrous amount of duplication in the system. As Mr. Baker observed, each of the major broadcast networks has about 200 affiliated stations. But there are more than 350 PBS member stations.
In the New York area, Mr. Baker added, "there are six overlapping public television stations." They are WNET, which is actually licensed in Newark; WNYC and WNYE in New York City; the New Jersey Network; the Connecticut Network, and WLIW on Long Island.
Robert Ottendorf, the executive vice president of PBS, said that while some public stations were beginning to share facilities, there was still far too much duplication. "In 1994 we shouldn't be operating like it's still 1970," Mr. Ottendorf said.
The duplication is terribly costly, one former WNET executive said. "There are probably 10,000 employees working in public television," he said. "Compare that to one of our competitors, like the A&E channel." That channel, Arts & Entertainment, has fewer than 350 employees.
"Even when you try to fix the problem, you run into impossible political situations," this executive said. Indeed, Channel 13 previously tried to forge a cost-saving alliance with the New Jersey Network, only to see it fall apart. The executive said station managers had little incentive to cooperate because they saw their own jobs threatened.
Mr. Baker said most of Channel 13's financial problems would be solved if it did not have to compete with so many other public television stations. Although the station continues to pursue alliances with other public television outlets, Mr. Baker is looking more toward the endowment as a long-term solution.
The endowment is an excellent idea, one producer associated with the station said, but it does not make up for what the station is missing. "There's just not a lot of energy there," said the producer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I don't see much of a vision."
Mr. Baker conceded that the station needed to "focus on programs, not on the physical plant," which is one reason he played down the news that WNET might close its production studio. He pointed out that A&E and the Discovery Channel, often perceived as the chief competitors of PBS, did not have studios. "Neither does Channel 4 in England," Mr. Baker said, "which is known as the best public broadcaster in the world."
Partly to address what might be called Channel 13's "vision thing," Mr. Baker has brought in Ward Chamberlin, the former president of WETA in Washington, to direct Channel 13's local and national programming. Mr. Chamberlin said yesterday that the loss of "MacNeil/ Lehrer" was bound to feed the perception of a station in trouble, one that is no longer the chief provider of significant new programs to public television.
"We have to attract talent to the station," he said. "That's exactly what I came here to do."
Mr. Chamberlin said WNET was developing two series, one on human sexuality and the other on space and design in America. They would not be broadcast until two years from now.
"We have to restore this place to status as the station that gives PBS the hit series," Mr. Chamberlin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHARLIE ROSE (TV PROGRAM); MCNEIL/LEHRER NEWSHOUR (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC) FINANCIAL NEWS & DAILY RECORD (53%); FINANCIAL NEWS SYNDICATE (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION; TELEVISION; PUBLIC TELEVISION; FINANCES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); WORKPLACE MORALE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CITIES (62%); LAYOFFS (56%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL CHARLIE ROSE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



448 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Of Winchell and the Power of Gossip

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
WINCHELL
Gossip, Power and the Culture of Celebrity
By Neal Gabler
681 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
At the height of Walter Winchell's power in the late 1930's, some 50 million Americans -- roughly two-thirds of the adult population -- either listened to his weekly radio broadcast or read his daily newspaper column. Songs and movies were written about him. Presidents courted him. And politicians, actors and socialites alike all feared him. Although he would die a defeated and largely reviled man, Winchell presided over American mass culture for several decades, a self-appointed arbiter of power and taste, and an eerie harbinger of the culture of celebrity and gossip that would take hold in the country in the years to come. 
 In Neal Gabler's enthralling new biography, Winchell emerges as a strangely emblematic figure -- an avatar of "a cultural revolution in which control of the American agenda shifted from the mandarins of high culture to the new masters of mass culture." In the 20's, Mr. Gabler observes, Winchell's gossip column -- with its irreverent debunking of the rich and famous -- spoke to a society seething with new egalitarian impulses and discontents. During the Depression, his hectic descriptions of Broadway openings and Hollywood shenanigans provided a glamorous escape from the cruel realities of the Depression, while his New Deal populism buttressed his pose as a champion of the people. And in the years before and during World War II, his impassioned denunciations of Hitler and his calls to arms galvanized and echoed the nation's commitment to war.
In the course of his career, Mr. Gabler argues, Winchell helped redefine the media's role in American society, introducing concepts all too familiar today: journalism as entertainment, celebrity gossip as news, opinion-making as reportage. As a leader in "the tabloid revolution," Mr. Gabler adds, Winchell not only provided his readers with sensationalistic stories, but also "purveyed a cosmology, an attitude toward the world which was every bit as rich as the cosmology of the traditional press. In place of cool reason, heated passion. In place of the primacy of world and national events that presumably determined the readers' own destinies, trivial and salacious events, a 'drama of life,' as one called it, that reflected a world gone mad. In place of faith in the objective and verifiable, the subjective and provisional that ceded no higher truth."
Writing that Winchell was "arguably one of the principal architects" of modern American culture, Mr. Gabler turns the columnist's life into the springboard for a fascinating social history. At the same time, he uses a novelistic approach to give the reader a vivid, psychologically acute portrait of Winchell himself. This is the same narrative technique Mr. Gabler employed in his last book, "An Empire of Their Own: How the Jews Invented Hollywood," and he makes the reader aware of the many parallels between Winchell and the Hollywood moguls depicted in that earlier volume -- namely, a "patrimony of failure," a desperate, driving need for attention and security, and a willingness to sacrifice familial happiness to a career.
Winchell's sensibility, Mr. Gabler tells us, was indelibly shaped by his impoverished childhood in Harlem and by his early, scrambling years as a performer in vaudeville. The latter would endow him with a compulsive desire to entertain and a nihilistic sense of the precariousness of attachments. The former would leave him with a lasting sense of insecurity and a free-floating need for revenge. "I'm not a fighter," Winchell wrote in his autobiography, "I'm a 'waiter.' I wait until I can catch an ingrate with his fly open, and then I take a picture of it."
From vaudeville, Winchell slipped into writing theatrical newsletters, and from there into the fledgling world of tabloid journalism, where his ear for the slangy patois of cafe society and his mastery of gossip quickly earned him an avid following. Fame on a national level followed in the early 30's with the success of Winchell's radio broadcasts, broadcasts that brought distracting news of celebrity marriages and divorces to a country reeling from unemployment and unpaid bills.
It was only a matter of time before Winchell tried to translate his oracular authority in the world of celebrity gossip to the broader stage of politics. And for a time, he was remarkably successful. Roosevelt paid him tribute, and Winchell repaid the compliment with fervor, rallying support for the President's policies both at home and abroad. After the war and Roosevelt's death, Winchell's liberalism began to sour. Truman disappointed him and so did Dewey and Henry Wallace. By the early 50's, he had become an ardent supporter of Joseph McCarthy, not solely out of anti-Communist fervor, Mr. Gabler suggests, but also out of a willingness to employ similar tactics of finger-pointing and innuendo.
By then, Mr. Gabler observes, Winchell's columns and broadcasts had grown increasingly vituperative and vindictive. All pretense of populist sentiment had vanished, as he used his power to settle purely personal scores and reward a dwindling number of friends.
In fact, Winchell's private life had grown empty and acrimonious as well. He rarely saw his wife, June. His son, Walt, committed suicide. And Winchell broke up his daughter Walda's romance with a producer named Billy Cahn by questioning her sanity and defaming Cahn's reputation, acts that would help sully Winchell's own reputation, when they were incorporated into the portrait of a vindictive gossip columnist in the 1957 movie "The Sweet Smell of Success."
By the early 60's, Mr. Gabler reports, Winchell had already become an anachronism, forced out of radio by the advent of television and diminished as a columnist by his own self-destructive rants. Having celebrated the cult of the ephemeral celebrity, he would die in 1972 by the very unforgiving rules of fame he had helped to invent, alone and forgotten.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Winchell (Bill Mark/From "Winchell")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: WINCHELL: GOSSIP, POWER AND THE CULTURE OF CELEBRITY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; GOSSIP; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HISTORY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); 

PERSON: WINCHELL, WALTER (1897-1972); KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; GABLER, NEAL WALTER WINCHELL (97%); NEAL GABLER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



449 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THREATS IN THE GULF: IN BAGHDAD;
Iraq Fails to Act on Security Council Proposal to Recognize Kuwait's Borders

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 17

 BODY:
The Iraqi Parliament held a closed session today that had been expected to yield formal recognition of Kuwait's sovereignty, but the meeting broke up without any acknowledgement that the lawmakers had even discussed the issue.
A vague statement issued later by the official Iraqi news agency said the 250-member assembly had discussed "situations in the Arab and international arena" and "the attitude toward the Security Council and recent Russian-Iraq talks." It was not clear when the Parliament would meet again. 
 Supporting a proposal by Russia, President Saddam Hussein indicated last week that Iraq was ready to accept Kuwait's sovereignty and borders as demanded by the United Nations Security Council in exchange for the eventual lifting of economic sanctions.
Despite the blandness of the news agency's announcement, some lawmakers and several Government officials said that Iraq was ready to recognize Kuwait's borders and end the state of war between the two countries. But the extent to which Baghdad would meet the United Nations criteria for granting such recognition was unclear.
"We are in a difficult situation and our aim is to get the sanctions lifted," said Mohammad Mozafar al-Hamadi, a university professor who is a member of Parliament. "We have said before that we are ready to accept the United Nations resolutions. We should have peace and we should have dialogue."
Other members of Parliament said they believed they had been summoned to ratify a decision already made by the ruling Revolutionary Command Council, headed by President Hussein, to recognize Kuwait.
The economic sanctions were imposed by the Security Council in the months after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 and declared it to be an Iraqi province. The Council requires that Iraq's recognition of Kuwait come through official channels, including a formal measure of the Parliament, which is considered a rubber-stamp assembly.
Iraq had called the parliamentary session on a day's notice, describing it as an emergency meeting on its latest confrontation with the United States. Reporters were ushered into the opening session but then abruptly asked to leave when it was declared a closed session.
A member of the Parliament who declined to be identified said he was convinced that recognition of Kuwait would come soon. "I think the matter is over," he said. "We will have to coexist as two independent states."
The parliamentary session was preceded by numerous Government statements and gestures paving the way for such recognition. They made it clear that after four years, this country of 18 million is no longer able to withstand the most severe regime of economic sanctions ever imposed on an international level.
Tonight the country's Trade Minister said during a news conference that Iraq was reeling under an annual inflation rate of 2,500 percent as its currency continued to decline and its reserves of foreign currency dwindle. Oil exports, its main source of foreign exchange, were shut down by the United Nations in 1990.
In another sign of Iraq's eagerness to get the sanctions lifted, the officially controlled news organizations have reported international criticism of Iraq's military moves toward the Kuwaiti border. The reports have repeatedly emphasized the insistence of several countries that Iraq must drop its claim to Kuwaiti territory if it wants relief from the sanctions.
On Sunday, Iraqi newspapers reported criticism from a previously close ally, King Hussein of Jordan, who said he would side against Baghdad if it ever moved militarily against Kuwait.
Tonight, Iraqi television, a prime instrument of the Government's propaganda, showed parts of the speeches by members of the United Nations Security Council, including accusations by the United States and Britain that Iraq provoked the crisis and should refrain from military threats to its neighbors in the future.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraq gave no indication yesterday of whether recognition of Kuwait was discussed at a session of Parliament in Baghdad. Legislators milled at the Parliament entrance, where a portrait of Saddam Hussein hangs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (99%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; KUWAIT (99%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); CURRENCIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



450 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: Japan Plans to Conquer Sea's Depths

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
NO part of Japan is more than 75 miles from the sea. With its fish catch three times that of the United States, its shipyards some of the world's most innovative and its Emperor a marine biologist, the land of nearly 7,000 isles in the past few years has quietly honed its technological skills to become a global leader in probing the depths of the world's seas and working hard to unlock their secrets.
It is an effort of no small moment, as the deep encompasses more than half the earth. 
 The deepest diving manned submersible in the world is now one from Japan. The craft recently set a depth record in the Atlantic, carrying three people down nearly four miles to scrutinize the sea floor. Earlier this year in the Pacific, a Japanese robot set a depth record for exploration by advanced machines.
Japan is making discoveries, setting up international deep-sea collaborations and launching waves of new equipment meant to illuminate the sea's dark frontiers. Smaller than California and bereft of many natural resources, the archipelago nation sees the deep as a repository of biological and mineral riches and is making preparations to mine them both.
It is also probing the abyss to fathom its own geophysical fate, which is tied to nearby oceanic plates that grind past one another to produce swarms of earthquakes, volcanoes and tsunamis. The hope is to learn how to warn of danger.
"Increased knowledge of the ocean is indispensable to making our way into the future," said Mitsugu Ishizuka, president of the Japan Marine Science and Technology Center, located on Tokyo Bay, the nation's top group for the development of deep gear, speaking recently to an American audience.
Japan over the years has sunk large sums into industrial sectors it deems important, at times with mixed results. It won big on memory chips but stumbled on futuristic computers and some types of advanced television. Its space program is ambitious but seemingly confused over whether it wants a leading world role.
American experts say Japan's inner-space program is as serious as any they have analyzed, even if small compared with some of that country's giant projects. Its steady growth is reportedly based on annual investments that have now risen to around $100 million.
The effort seems more ambitious than that of the United States, where Federal development of deep-sea vehicles has slowed in favor of operating some the Government already owns.
"They're making a big push, putting a lot of money into it, and exceeding us in some ways," said Dr. Richard Von Herzen, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod who recently dived in the Japanese deep submersible. "It's not competitive. They're complementing our work in the oceans, and doing it rather quickly and well."
J. Bradford Mooney Jr., a retired Navy Rear Admiral who studies global trends in deep-sea research, said America's style was piecemeal while Japan's was comprehensive. "Clearly, the whole nation is marching to the same drum," he said in an interview. "They have a national strategy."
Much of Japan's undersea push arises from its wrestling with harsh geographic facts of life. The island nation is mountainous, short on farmland and resources and highly dependent on the ocean. Its annual per capita consumption of fish is the highest in the world.
The sea, often celebrated in national festivals, is also feared. The type of earthquake that shook Japan on Oct. 4 is common in the Western Pacific, where the intermittent shifting of deep oceanic plates begets earthquakes, volcanoes and the big waves known as tsunamis. The quake's epicenter was in the maze of deep fissures in the ocean floor that runs parallel to Japan and regularly erupts in tectonic upheavals.
Justin L. Bloom, the United States science attache in Tokyo from 1975 to 1981 and now a consultant on international science, said Japan's drive to fathom the deep was as much spiritual and intellectual as practical and economic.
"Historically, as a nation, as a people, the Japanese have had a huge involvement with the ocean," he said in an interview. "Their culture is largely based on their relationship to the sea. I don't think the program was ever justified on the basis of some great economic plan. It was something they wanted to do well simply because the ocean is such a big part of their lives."
In the early 1970's, the Japanese founded the Japan Marine Science and Technology Center and immediately turned to the West for aid in learning how to probe the deep. In particular, they turned to Woods Hole on Cape Cod, which in concert with the Navy had invented deep maneuvering submersibles. Its pride was Alvin, which could carry three people to a depth of 2.5 miles.
Japanese engineers visited Woods Hole in 1973 and inspected Alvin closely. In 1975, Emperor Hirohito paid a visit as well. After much experimentation, in 1981 the Japanese launched the Shinkai ("deep sea") 2000, which could carry people down 2,000 meters, or 1.25 miles.
Alvin and its support ship visited Tokyo in 1987, fresh from making headlines by investigating the sunken hulk of the Titanic. The American submersible was toured by Crown Prince Akihito, who is now Japan's Emperor. He is a marine biologist, as was his father, and specializes in gobies, a type of small carnivorous fish.
In 1990 the Japanese completed the Shinkai 6500, which cost about $60 million to build and can carry three people down 6,500 meters, or more than 4 miles. It can dive deeper than any other manned vehicle in the world and is quite well equipped. For instance, it has more electrical power for lights, cameras and science experiments than Alvin.
The 31-foot-long submersible and its 345-foot-long support ship stopped at Woods Hole in late July as part of a Japanese-American effort to probe the Atlantic. The sub had just set an Atlantic depth record by diving down 3.74 miles to hunt for insights into how the Earth's crust is formed. Both vehicles appeared to be engineering jewels, the ship made by Kawasaki and the submersible by Mitsubishi.
Masahiko Ida, formerly Japan's top submersible pilot and now head of the Shinkai 6500 team, gave a reporter a tour of the tiny submarine. Asked the secret of its powers, he said there was no secret. All the "cutting and welding," he said, all the innumerable parts and the personnel sphere, which is made of titanium, a super-strong metal, had simply been done with great care and precision.
He led the way up a flight of stairs near the gleaming white machine and then down a ladder into its heart. The interior was cramped but not claustrophobic. Three small windows looked forward. Banks of switches were arrayed in neat rows, many underlaid by Japanese script. Most of the gear, including tape recorders for deep-sea cameras, was made in Japan. An exception was the underwater telephone system, made by Ametek, a California company recently acquired by one in Utah.
American scientists say the Japanese are learning rapidly and loosing a tendency to be overly cautious in their deep explorations. For instance, the Shinkai 6500 now dives almost every day. At the program's start, it went down every other day, with the off days devoted to painstaking rounds of maintenance.
"The big surprise was how far they've come," said one American oceanographer, who recently dove on the Shinkai 6500 and who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid the possibility of offending his hosts. "This sub clearly has substantial abilities and very good imaging systems."
Another American scientist echoed that view. "We were all impressed," he said, fresh from a Shinkai 6500 dive. "They babied the system. They didn't work it the way we would. But we got all the samples we wanted. After all was said and done, it seems to be a very good system."
The Japanese rush into the deep has occasionally led to stumbles that Tokyo apparently views as unavoidable missteps on the road to leadership.
A particularly painful episode centered on the device known as Kaiko, or "trench" in Japanese. Built by Mitsui, the $50 million machine is the world's deepest-diving robot, designed to plunge on a tether to depths of 11,000 meters, or nearly seven miles. It has television cameras, still cameras, sonars, sensors and crab-like claws. One of Japan's goals is to use it to map cracks in the ocean floor as an aid to finding and monitoring active geological faults.
On a test dive early this year, Kaiko was nearing the ocean floor nearly seven miles into the Mariana Trench -- the deepest spot in the ocean -- when video screens watched by Japanese engineers suddenly went blank. The dive was aborted and the 10-foot-long robot hauled back to the surface for lengthy repairs. The setback came just feet short of breaking the depth record set in 1960 by the American bathyscaph Trieste, which carried two people. Still, Kaiko's dive was the deepest to date by a robot and succeeded in gathering valuable data with a suite of modern sensors.
Despite such stumbles, the Japanese are pressing ahead to perfect Kaiko and develop other gear, including prototype machines for deep mining. Sumitomo has built an experimental device that can be towed to depths of 5,000 meters, or 3.1 miles, to gather manganese nodules. Scattered like cobblestones on parts of the sea floor, the nodules are rich in copper, cobalt and nickel, which is important for making stainless steel.
Experts say ocean mining, though perhaps decades off in general, might be done sooner by the Japanese as a way to achieving greater resource independence.
So too, Japanese biologists have begun a major effort to retrieve microbes from the deep, and perhaps to make new drugs and tools for genetic engineering. The $43 million Deepstar project, as it is known, involves building a plant that can reproduce on land the extreme pressures and temperatures found in the sea's depths. The aim is to have a repository for breeding unique bacteria and organisms brought back to land by Kaiko, Shinkai 6500 and other deep-diving vehicles.
A tentative project on the horizon for Tokyo is a large new ship that would be used to drill deep into the ocean's rocky crust to study global geology. That job is now done by the Joides Resolution, a 470-foot-long ship based in the United States that sails the world for an international consortium of geologists.
As Japan develops a wealth of deep-sea gear, Western experts wonder to what extent the rush will advance the hardest aspects of science and discovery, noting that creative flexibility can be as important to such work as solid financing.
Another question is whether the Japanese drive into the deep is just a temporary plunge created by the fiscal surpluses of 1980's or is the beginning of a long-term expansion. Experts are divided on the topic. Among the riddles is a proposed new Japanese submersible, informally known as Shinkai 11,000, that would carry scientists into the deepest parts of the abyss.
"They don't like to talk about things before they happen," said Don Walsh, a former Navy captain who was on Trieste's pioneering dive and has advised the Japanese. He said he expects the new submersible to materialize "by the end of the century."
Other experts say the Japanese are changing focus now that key tools are in hand or nearly finished, spending money as much on exploration as new vehicles. Japan, they add, is pouring new funds into coastal development, marine construction and oceanic power generation, even as the nation becomes more serious about seabed mining.
"They're starting to explore a lot of things," said Dr. Joseph R. Vadus, an expert on Japanese sea endeavors at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Silver Spring, Md. "Over all, what Japan is doing with the ocean is mind-boggling."


GRAPHIC: Japan is pioneering deep-sea exploration to learn how to warn of devastating earthquakes and tsunamis, to mine the sea's biological and mineral riches and generally to gain a better understanding of the waters that so dominate Japanese life. New fleets of manned submersibles and unmanned robots focus particularly on the tectonic intersections near Japan whose shakes and rumbles have caused recurring tragedies over the centuries. (Source: Japan Marine Science and Technology Center) (pg. C1)
 
"A Japanese Eye Under the Ocean"'
Diagrams: "Illuminating the Abyss"
 The Shinkai 6500 vessel permits human and instrument observation down to depths just over four miles. (Source: Japan Marine Science andTechnology Center) (pg. C12)
 
Map of Japan's coastline showing locations of diving points of Shinkai 2000 and Shinkai 6500. (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: OCEANS; SHINKAI (SUBMERSIBLE); KAIKO (DIVING ROBOT); EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; ROBOTS; SUBMARINES OCEANS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); FISHES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



451 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
After 40 Days and 40 Nights, Players and Owners Will Meet in Capital

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Five years to the day after the World Series earthquake, there were slight rumblings yesterday in the long dormant negotiations in baseball's labor dispute. Forty days after they last held a bargaining session, representatives of the players and the owners will meet in Washington tomorrow with Bill Usery Jr., the mediator who will try to help them resolve their differences.
Neither side would comment publicly on the meeting, but one person involved in the talks called the gathering a "ground rules meeting." 
 Last Friday, the day he was brought into the dispute, Usery met separately with Donald Fehr, the union chief, and two of his aides, and then with Bud Selig, the acting commissioner. Selig isn't expected to attend tomorrow's session, but it will be the first time since Sept. 9 that the two negotiating teams get together.
Besides union staff members, a large contingent of players will accompany Fehr. Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, was not in Washington last Friday but is expected to be there tomorrow. Some owners and other club executives also will be at the meeting. The group most likely will include John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, Jerry McMorris of the Colorado Rockies and Wendy Selig-Prieb of Milwaukee.
The last time the negotiating teams met, Selig joined the talks for the first time, and the owners rejected the players' new proposal. The next day, union lawyers met with Harrington and Stan Kasten of the Atlanta Braves, but the informal session produced nothing to bring the negotiating teams back to the table.
Four days later, the clubs voted to cancel the rest of the season, the playoffs and the World Series, and negotiators embarked on a long hiatus.
As they agreed to return to the table, the two sides continued to have their differences. Seventeen more players filed for free agency yesterday, but just as it did last Saturday, the first day of the 15-day filing period, the owners' Player Relations Committee rejected four names.
The P.R.C. said that Gregg Olson of Atlanta, Tom Gordon of Kansas City, Greg Harris of Colorado and Chris Gwynn of Los Angeles do not have the required six years of major league service to be eligible for free agency.
Those players would have enough service if the days of the strike were counted, but the clubs' lawyers say those days don't count. The Players Association says they do and eventually will file a grievance to resolve the dispute within a dispute.
Even without the strike days, Gwynn, Tony's brother, who is a reserve outfielder for the Dodgers, is only one day short of six years.
Last Saturday, the P.R.C. rejected filings for Jim Abbott of the Yankees, Jack McDowell of the Chicago White Sox, Kenny Rogers of Texas and Erik Hanson of Cincinnati. Four other players, including Randy Velarde of the Yankees, are in the same category.
Players who filed successfully were Terry Mulholland and Scott Bankhead of the Yankees, Dave Winfield of Cleveland, Orel Hershiser of Los Angeles, Bob Tewksbury of St. Louis, Danny Jackson and Ricky Jordan of Philadelphia, Mike Macfarlane of Kansas City, Mike Jackson of San Francisco, Dave Gallagher of Atlanta, Jeff Brantley of Cincinnati, Tom Foley of Pittsburgh and Luis Aquino of Florida.
They raised the number of undisputed free agents to 22.
Another eligible player, Mark Parent, reached agreement with the Pirates on a one-year contract for $300,000. The Pirates claimed the catcher on waiver from the Chicago Cubs.
In another economic development, the Players Association sent out checks for $5,000 from its $200 million strike fund. That brings to $25,000 the amount of money players who qualify for the maximum have received from the fund. No more checks will be disbursed until the union's executive board votes to release more funds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN KENNY ROGERS ROASTERS (50%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); COLORADO ROCKIES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); COLORADO ROCKIES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; SALARY CAPS; LABOR; STRIKES BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ATHLETES (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; USERY, BILL JR BUD SELIG (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



452 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: City's Advice on Central Park: Take a Friend

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
As he moved into the pale wash of a lantern alongside the Central Park Reservoir at 8:30 last night, Sammy Busby had the long straightaway on the western side of the reservoir jogging track to himself.
Despite the eerie solitude, despite the much-publicized rape on Saturday of a woman who was jogging on the same track, Mr. Busby, an actor, said he did not feel threatened. "I'm a pretty big fellow," he said, adding: "The women seem to be the victims." 
 Central Park last night was a place for the die-hard runners, cyclists and skaters, or for those who simply do not believe they are vulnerable. Those who did their laps in the park after dark said there were perhaps one-fifth as many people as usual there, out for their exercise.
At 9 P.M., perhaps a dozen people could be seen circling the reservoir, only one a woman and she was with a man. A few more people ran, skated or rode the East and West Drives. Though most knew about the recent spate of rapes in the park, and conceded that they were in the minority in not being scared off by the events, they insisted that they felt safe.
"It's too nice a night to be worried about that," said Paul Heffner, a banker, who said he ran around the reservoir two or three times a week.
"I have to run," said Susan Feitelberg, a banker, who ran the West Drive with her friend, Michael Wootton. "I go every night. I try to go with someone, but not always."
While the police continued to search for the man who committed the most recent rape, city officials and Central Park boosters yesterday struggled to explain the increase in the number of rapes. They insisted that the park was a relatively safe place, but counseled caution at night.
Central Park, which is one of the city's 75 police precincts, has far less crime than the average precinct. But other precincts have about 100,000 residents each, as against just a few in Central Park, making a comparison difficult.
"Central Park is a relatively safe place to be if it's used appropriately," said Henry J. Stern, the city Parks and Recreation Commissioner. "It's much safer by day than by night, and it's safer with a buddy."
Recent attacks in the park would not have drawn as much attention if they had happened elsewhere, Mr. Stern said. "Central Park is like a metaphor for New York," he said. "It's like Macy's window. Whatever happens there is magnified."
The most recent victim, a 39-year-old unemployed secretary, was attacked by a knife-wielding man while jogging around the reservoir at 9:30, the police said. The police offered no new information about the investigation yesterday.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the park is not unique when it comes to danger, and he urged people who run there after dark not to go alone. "That's good advice for almost all parts of the city," he said. "That would be good advice given by the mayor of almost any American city."
The police say there have been 11 rapes in the park this year, up from 9 last year and 4 in 1992. Yet crime in the park has dropped in the same period.
"I think the rapes are an anomaly," said Elizabeth Barlow Rogers, administrator of the Central Park Conservancy, a nonprofit environmental organization that helps care for the park. "Over all, the park is becoming, I think, a more benign place."
In the last few years, the police have begun patrolling the park on scooters and bicycles, giving them access to more of its hidden and potentially dangerous places.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); RUNNING (77%); CYCLING (72%); CITIES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



453 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Police Move Street Vendors In Harlem

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Hundreds of police officers descended on 125th Street in Harlem yesterday to carry out the Giuliani administration's order to clear the busy thoroughfare of street vendors, and 22 people were arrested as scuffles broke out between the illegal merchants and officers.
Although the sweep went relatively smoothly -- the police had been anticipating trouble -- many store owners, fearful of reprisals from vendors, kept their doors shut for much of the day. 
 Among those arrested was Morris Powell, the president of an association of vendors on 125th Street. He was charged with disorderly conduct for using a bull horn without a permit during a march by about 150 people demonstrating against the sweep.
Under the administration's plan, the vendors are to move to an open-air market site about eight blocks away, at Lenox Avenue and 116th Street. But by late afternoon, only two vendors had opened for business at the new site.
There were several minor scuffles in the morning between officers and vendors trying to set up shop. But with each wave of arrests, the ranks of protesters along 125th Street grew thinner.
By late afternoon, the street had largely returned to normal, and a few store owners who had kept their businesses closed decided to reopen for the rest of the day.
The major difference from most days was the complete absence of the once-ubiquitous vendors, whose presence on 125th Street had become a major attraction for shoppers from other parts of New York City and beyond.
While the vendors drew shoppers to the area, they also drew the ire of merchants and civic groups, who contended that the thousand or more illegal merchants were clogging sidewalks and leaving debris strewn about while often peddling counterfeit goods at bargain-basement prices.
In place of the vendors yesterday were police officers standing along the street in clusters of three, with metal barricades on the sidewalks, giving 125th Street an air of an area under siege.
On the western edge of 125th Street, police officials set up a command post where they oversaw a battery of officers, some in patrol cars, vans, tow trucks and buses and even some mounted on horses. They were joined by officials from 14 other city agencies, ranging from Sanitation to the Department of Transportation. Police officials declined to say how many officers were assigned to the area yesterday, but some officers estimated their numbers at more than 500.
And while many Harlem residents found the scene disquieting, some praised how the Giuliani administration was dealing with what many had considered a perennial severe problem whose solution had eluded previous mayors.
"For the first time, I could walk down 125th Street unencumbered," said Keith L. T. Wright, a State Assemblyman from Harlem who has supported the Mayor's initiative and whose office is in the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building on 125th Street. "The experience of seeing the scene is not completely pleasing, but the end result -- moving the vendors off of 125th Street -- is pleasing."
Barbara Askins, executive director of the 125th Street Business Improvement District, which has supported the sweep, said that while she was pleased with the action, it was still too early to assess its long-term effectiveness.
"I don't get the sense that it's over yet," Ms. Askins said. "I don't know how long the police will be there or what the enforcement will be. It's too early to say what will happen beyond the next few days."
Many displaced vendors and some residents angrily questioned why the Giuliani administration had used so many police officers to relocate people merely trying to make a living.
"You never see this kind of police force used to raid a crack house," said Gregory Lucas, a book vendor standing along 125th Street. "You would think that Saddam Hussein was invading Harlem. All we want to do is make a living. Does Giuliani want us to go on welfare?"
The first to set up shop at the newly established open-air market was a vendor selling video tapes, Lance Shabaaz. Mr. Shabaaz said that he understood that a mosque would be built on the site of the open-air market.
"So this is just a temporary arrangement," he said. "When the new mosque is built, what's going to happen to the vendors then? I don't think the city has considered any of this."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, speaking at a press conference in City Hall, said the sweep would ultimately benefit the economy of Harlem.
"Virtually all the vendors we're talking about here are illegal vendors," he said. Citing the failures of his predecessor, Mayor David N. Dinkins, to deal with the illegal vendors, Mr. Giuliani said "This time we have to make it work."
Legal vendors, he said, pay taxes. "There has been a feeling for some time that if you're concerned about the economic vitality of Harlem, this has to be dealt with," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Giuliani administration wants to move the illegal vendors who have been crowding 125th Street in Harlem for years to two lots on Lenox Avenue. But at one point yesterday afternoon, Lance Shabazz's book stand was the only one open for business in the lot on 116th Street. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B3); Police officers escort one of the 22 people arrested when scuffles broke out on 125th Street in Harlem between officers and street vendors protesting the Giuliani administration's order to move them to a nearby open-air market. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of Harlem shoiwng the location of where the arrests were made. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RIOTS (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); RELOCATIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDOLPH W GIULIANI (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



454 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE GOVERNOR;
Cuomo, for One, Seeks to Hitch His Star To Clinton's

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FREEPORT, L.I., Oct. 17

 BODY:
In a year in which Democratic politicians are fleeing from the outstretched arms of President Clinton, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, ever the loyalist Democrat, made it clear today that he longs for the Administration's embrace and does not mind returning it. Indeed, he made a repeated point of describing the President as great but misunderstood, a heroic figure whose struggle for popularity sounded very much like his own.
"He has the most extraordinary record for achieving things that has not been appreciated," the Governor said of President Clinton while campaigning on Long Island today, calling Mr. Clinton not just a good President but a great President. "I think I know why: when you get something done, you don't let it sink in and exploit it. Let the people know what you've done." 
 Asked if he identified with the President, Mr. Cuomo suddenly turned coy, saying he would never make such a comparison.
But as if following his own prescription, the Governor throughout the day was lavish in his praise of President Clinton's accomplishments, and the Administration returned the favor by sending its second-highest emissary to demonstrate its solidarity with one of the few Democrats who seem to want it. Vice President Al Gore, joining the Governor at a converted defense plant here, called him one of the greatest governors in American history, and closed the circle of identification by saying that Mr. Cuomo is being challenged by the same conservative forces that daily besiege the White House.
"Let us be clear about the fact that America and New York face a choice," Mr. Gore said. "We've made a good start. We're moving in the right direction. Are we going to continue moving forward, or call a halt to the progress and take a radical right-wing U-turn back to the trickle-down Reaganomics approach that almost bankrupted this country and caused those two deep recessions, the worst since the Great Depression?"
Mr. Gore didn't say whether he was referring to right-wing Republicans in general, or to Mr. Cuomo's Republican opponent, State Senator George E. Pataki, who is generally considered more moderate than the party's most conservative wing. His point, in fact, seemed to be that there is no difference between them, a message that Mr. Cuomo has recently taken pains to assert in his speeches and advertisements.
Linking himself to the Administration holds a number of strategic advantages for Mr. Cuomo, the most important of which is that the President is more popular in New York State than the Governor is. The most recent New York Times-WCBS-TV poll, in fact, found that 55 percent of New Yorkers approve of the President's performance, while only 45 percent approve of the job Mr. Cuomo has done.
The Governor acknowledged such a calculation yesterday, saying that New York State "probably appreciates the President better than others."
"The truth, the God's honest truth is, if he weren't a plus I'd want him here," Mr. Cuomo told reporters. "He is my President, and I'm with him. But he is a plus, there's no question in my mind."
Standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Mr. Gore and, at a fund-raiser Wednesday night, with Mr. Clinton himself, also appeals directly to the traditional Democratic base that Mr. Cuomo is so desperately trying to energize and send to the polls next month.
His stops yesterday seemed to reinforce that point, reading like something out of a yellowing Democratic playbook from 30 years ago: a vigorously pro-union speech before the Communications Workers of America; a groundbreaking at a city-subsidized laboratory in the South Bronx; the appearance with Mr. Gore at a defense plant converting to civilian use, and finally a fund-raising dinner sponsored by the Democrats of Suffolk County.
The defense plant, Frisby Airborne Hydraulics Inc., is a small manufacturer of aircraft hydraulic systems that its chief executive, Greg Frisby, said was on the verge of closing as a result of the defense downturn that has ravaged Long Island's aerospace industry. Through a Federal and state loan guarantee plan for defense conversion, the company is joining forces with a Queens defense contractor, the Edo Corporation, to make similar systems for civilian aircraft.
Inside the stifling plant, filled with cheering Frisby employees and their families, the two perspiring Democrats took turns admiring each other's vision and exchanging credit for promoting such conversion plans.
Throughout the day, Mr. Cuomo had only one critical word about the Clinton Administration, noting that he had differed with the President's support of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But he included it as part of Mr. Clinton's "stunning" record of legislative accomplishment, one that he said is not fully appreciated by the public or media.
Ask 15 people in the street whether they know the President had increased the earned-income tax credit, he said, and not one will have heard about the important program for lower-income working families.
"That's not your fault and it's not mine," he told reporters. "They just didn't tell the story." Later, in the same vein, he said he is running the most substantive campaign ever, but that it has not received enough coverage.
 
IN THEIR OWN WORDS
 
GOV. MARIO M. CUOMO
As Governor Cuomo campaigns, he often laments what he describes as a mood of negativism he says he sees, adding that one of the reasons he wants a fourth term is to combat that mood. He repeated the message yesterday at a ground-breaking ceremony in the Bronx.
"This is one of the most negative periods in our history that I can recall. Over the last 10 or 12 years, this whole country seems to have turned sour, especially in recent years after the second recession. I'm trying to figure out why. Now we older people, you know, have a better span of vision; you younger people were born in the middle of negativism, and you had nothing else but negativism for 10, 12, 15 years. I don't know exactly where it came from."
 
STATE SENATOR GEORGE E. PATAKI
Speaking of the negativism, Senator Pataki was asked by reporters yesterday for his reaction to negative campaign ads being broadcast by the Cuomo campaign. Here is how Mr. Pataki, whose campaign is running its share of negative commercials, responded.
"I think it's just sad and unfortunate that instead of painting a picture of what the Governor wants to do in the future, he has lowered himself to trying to distort my record. . . . It's simply a sad attempt to frighten people about me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Vice President Al Gore at a campaign appearance yesterday at Frisby Airborne Hydraulics in Freeport, L.I. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



455 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CONNECTICUT;
Groark Stays the Course As Campaign Sinks

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 17

 BODY:
An early surprise in Connecticut's race for governor is the fall in the polls of Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s chosen successor, who is favored by fewer than 10 percent of those surveyed, dangerously near the race's fringe candidates.
Analysts say the collapse from 1990, when Mr. Weicker won as an independent with 40 percent of the vote, is very much a result of traditional politics: voters don't like Mrs. Groark's defense of the Weicker record and her pledge to carry on his policies. 
 As more people have heard her call to stay the course set by Mr. Weicker, including making the state more competitive by continuing to use the personal income tax to cut business taxes, her unfavorable ratings have doubled and her standing in some polls has fallen by nearly half.
Some experts say that to voters unnerved by continuing upheaval among major employers like insurers, hospitals and military contractors, Mrs. Groark's assurances that she and Mr. Weicker have put Connecticut on the road to recovery contradict personal experience.
"Even the people who think Lowell has done a decent job don't believe the state is headed in the right direction," said Jonathan Pelto, a former political director of the State Democratic Party. "So, when Eunice Groark based her campaign on staying the course, she doomed it to failure."
But Mrs. Groark, a 56-year-old lawyer who also served two terms on the Hartford City Council, is proving as stubborn as Mr. Weicker as she promotes the administration's record along with the virtues of not being beholden to a political party.
Descended from Hartford's founder, Thomas Hooker, she campaigns with the erect posture and good-humored smile of a Yankee aunt. Her opponents, she says, are bad boys, "tough guys" making "macho" promises of tax cuts that they can't keep. She and Mr. Weicker have done what's best for Connecticut, she says, and she will continue the strict fiscal regimen that started the state to recovery.
"My job here," Mrs. Groark said in an interview in her Capitol office, "is to say: 'You may not have liked this, but we're way down the line here. Do you want to go backward or do you want to go forward?' "
While John G. Rowland, the Republican, who is leading in the polls, is promising to repeal the income tax, and William E. Curry Jr., the Democrat, is saying he will slash local property taxes, Mrs. Groark has hardened her no-nonsense theme.
In a television ad that was first broadcast today, she says: "You probably don't know much about me because I'm not really great at tooting my own horn. But I am good at governing, and I talk straight."
She then holds up papers representing the tax-cut plans of Mr. Rowland, Mr. Curry and another independent candidate, Tom Scott, and says, "These are the promises of the party politicians, and here's what they're worth." And she drops them into a trash can.
She also issued a biting attack on the Rowland and Curry tax-cut plans, saying both would force the state to raise taxes on business. "These guys think they can sell the public a bill of goods that is based only on their political ambition, not reality," she said.
Mrs. Groark, a former Republican, says she will cut taxes if money is available, but she will not touch the income tax. Instead, she wants to cut business taxes further, and perhaps lower the state's 6 percent sales tax.
She also pledges to recruit new companies to move to Connecticut, and says that to do so she will offer corporate tax credits like those that helped persuade Swiss Bank to move to Stamford from Manhattan.
In her appearances, Mrs. Groark makes honesty the foundation of her campaign. At a forum on the arts in Hartford, she told a questioner, yes, she supported more state aid for the arts, but she didn't know if the state could afford more.
Moving on to a radio talk show, she said, "I'm telling the truth," when asked what set her apart from the other candidates.
"Eunice has adopted a policy of being very honest, but I'm not sure it's winning her any votes," said Betsey P. Todt, director of the Quinnipiac College Poll, who added that she was surprised when Mrs. Groark lost ground after the Democratic and Republican primaries in September. "She is basing her campaign on the fact that she can't guarantee to do what she wants to do, that spending caps have to be observed. She's not telling voters what they want to hear."
Mrs. Groark said many voters haven't made up their minds, but her low standing in early polls is damaging because her party, A Connecticut Party, barely exists as a political organization. To appeal to contributors, she must appear to be a candidate with a chance to win. And if they desert her, the polls could become self-fulfilling.
Mr. Pelto said he was surprised that Mrs. Groark hadn't made more of her largest natural constituency, women. Connecticut, he said, was the first state to elect a female Governor, Ella T. Grasso, and now it has the opportunity to elect the nation's first all-female ticket: Mrs. Groark's running mate for lieutenant governor is Audrey Rowe, Mr. Weicker's former commissioner of social services.
But Mrs. Groark said her main base of support is a coalition of women's groups. "There are a lot of women in this state who are very concerned about the promotion of women in government, who believe more women should take risks, that more women should run for office," she said.
To her, Mr. Rowland and Mr. Curry are increasingly "the guys." And guys are nothing but trouble. In a radio ad, she accuses them of "making all kinds of promises that they could never keep. But you know, the men in this race will say anything to get what they want."
With the election three weeks away, the question is whether any candidates can overcome a perception that they are out of the running. Mrs. Groark throws up her hands.
"What should I do," she said, "change the message now to say, 'Oh, I never had anything to do with Lowell Weicker and this whole thing has been a flop for four years'?"
"I am very proud of this campaign," she continued. "We have not compromised. We have told it as we believe it to be. We've not lied. And we have made no promises that we can't keep."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark of Connecticut, running to succeed Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., during an interview Friday at the State Capitol. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD CITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD CITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); LAWYERS (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAX LAW (69%); INSURANCE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GROARK, EUNICE S (LT GOV); WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



456 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: State Outlines a Far Different Lilco

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Trying to sell the Cuomo administration's plan for a $9 billion government takeover of the Long Island Lighting Company, state officials have been telling Long Islanders that what the state wants is not just government ownership, but an overhaul of the company.
S. David Freeman, the president of the New York Power Authority, who would manage the transformation, outlined plans yesterday for the Suffolk County Legislature: solar cells, which make electricity directly from sunlight; fuel cells, which make electricity from gas or oil without combustion; help for homeowners in making energy improvements, and thousands of trees, planted on the south sides of buildings to cut the need for air-conditioning. And there would be a new role for the power system -- fostering economic development. 
 Lilco officials and some outside experts are skeptical that any of this is economically viable. Perhaps more important, it is not clear how State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor, would react if he were elected; he has said only that he would have to look at the details of a state takeover.
Mr. Freeman, whom Mr. Cuomo appointed six months ago, is leading the effort to promote the takeover. He spoke at a news conference in Mineola, L.I., on Friday and was back on Long Island yesterday, describing not only the promised 10 percent cut in electricity rates, but also his vision for an electric system with a different feeling. It would be, he said, a system with "the people being in charge of their power system, the consumers being the owners."
The idea would be to create an innovative utility oriented toward limiting demand and making electricity in environmentally benign ways.
But Mr. Freeman is fighting a difficult battle. Even David Roe, an electricity expert at the Environmental Defense Fund, a national environmental group, said that the value of conservation investments was less clear at a time when electricity is abundant.
"The big savings used to be that you don't have to build the next plant, but we're not in that era now," he said. "This is a tough one for environmentalists," he said, though conservation programs like those Mr. Freeman favors still pay in terms of reduced emissions from power plants.
Mr. Freeman, however, insists that his plans make sense, and that he accomplished the goals he has laid out for Lilco in his last job, as general manager of the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, in California.
Lilco could have been described as innovative and risk-taking in the 1960's; it ordered three nuclear reactors and invested in a uranium mine, with results that are now infamous. Even the uranium mine went sour.
The utility concentrated on conservation in the early 90's when it appeared that junking Shoreham would lead to electricity shortages, but it recently asked the Public Service Commission for permission to reduce its expenditures in that area. The commission replied that if the company could achieve the same power reductions with less expenditure, it was welcome to do so.
In his talk to the Suffolk Legislature yesterday, Mr. Freeman said he would take a far more aggressive approach to conservation than Lilco has in the past.
In Sacramento, he paid bounties for old refrigerators to encourage customers to retire inefficient models and replace them with new ones. He also installed photovoltaic cells, which make power directly from sunlight, on the grounds of the company's defunct nuclear reactor, and had utility crews plant millions of trees on the south sides of houses, to put them in shade during the summer.
On Long Island, Mr. Freeman said, he would like to install fuel cells, which combine oxygen from air with hydrogen from oil or natural gas, to make water and electricity, as well as photovoltaic cells.
Lilco has taken a different approach.
"Our view is that conservation should be pursued insofar as it makes economic sense and helps us avoid building new power plants," said Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman. The company has spent more than $110 million on conservation since the late 1980's, she said. But she argued that too much conservation now, when energy demand is down and the region is coming out of a recession, could lead to a decline in revenue and force Lilco to seek higher rates.
"Mr. Freeman has a different view," Ms. Halpin said, "that energy conservation is good in and of itself."
Others, too, doubt that efficiency investments by the utilities really work.
People who accept subsidies to buy better light bulbs, refrigerators, windows or other energy-saving devices "are basically in it for the free lunch," said John P. Hughes, the technical director of the Electricity Consumers Resource Council, a Washington-based group that represents big industrial users of power. Since the cost of the subsidies flows into everyone's electric bills, those users pay the cost of raising the efficiency of others.
"People will take the rebate on the light bulb or whatever, and then they'll buy a new appliance," Mr. Hughes said. "You're stimulating an acquisition mentality of the upper income class. Where real conservation comes from is poor people's response to higher electric bills."
Lilco is an unusual candidate for conversion to public ownership. For one thing, the average public power system in this country has fewer than 2,000 customers; Lilco has about a million. For another, the era of conversion to public power ended about 50 years ago.
But Mr. Freeman has said repeatedly that there is no point in public ownership unless the public sector is going to perform differently than private companies.
In his view, Lilco would be a national model for clean energy sources. He would also like to turn the electric system into a force for economic development on the Island -- offering incentive rates to new industries -- rather than a drag, as it has been for years because of rates that are the highest of any major company in the nation.

GRAPHIC: Table: "ON THE TABLE: Where Lilco Would Stand" shows where Lilco would rank among publically owned electric utilities in the State of New York takes over. (Source: American Public Power Association; Edison Electric Institute; Lilco 1992 annual report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT (51%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (59%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (59%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (76%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); COUNTIES (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (71%); UTILITY RATES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) PHIL ROE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



457 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Logging Thrives on Economic Scare Tactics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Oregon, Foiling Forecasters, Thrives as It Protects Owls" (front page, Oct. 11) shows that timber industry warnings that protecting the spotted owl would lead to economic collapse of timber communities were false. Oregon timber communities have experienced a boom, yet timber officials are still claiming that economic chaos will come. They'll be proved wrong again. 
 Timber companies rely on scare tactics and intimidation to obtain their goals. In the future we can expect them to use the same scare tactics when the destructive practice of clear-cutting is taken to task.
Clear-cutting, the common practice of removing all trees from a plot of land, followed by replanting of a single species, destroys true forests, turning them into raw lumber factories. The removal of all trees speeds erosion, leading to massive sedimentation of the rivers, which is part of the reason that salmon and other native fish are nearing extinction in the Pacific Northwest.
Clear-cutting causes rapid runoff, leading to flooding, like the massive floods that devastated the Puget Sound region near Seattle in November and December 1990. It destroys the interaction of the complex forest ecosystem, both underground and above the ground. And clear-cutting even destroys timber jobs, because a young logger working on a plot of land will never return to that land in his productive lifetime. A clear-cut plot of land requires about 50 years before it can be cut again.
On the other hand, selective cutting of trees, followed by planting (or even natural seeding) of a variety of trees, reduces erosion to minimum, preventing sedimentation of rivers. This would help save native fish and prevent massive episodes of flooding. The variation of tree species and variation in their ages is a boon to wildlife as well.
Selective cutting can retain the basic intricacy of the ecosystem if done properly. A selectively cut forest is surely far more pleasing to the eye than a clear-cut plot area of bare earth littered with nothing but stumps, broken limbs and piles of unwanted wood debris.
And selective cutting allows loggers to work on the same plot of land repeatedly during their productive years. But the timber companies will fight selective cutting with even greater vehemence than they fought spotted owl protection.
They will thereby prove that their only interest is the immediate bottom line, not the long-term benefits for the forest or the total environment, not the benefits to their own workers and certainly not their own long-term bottom line.
Good forestry practices can be achieved, but they will have to be achieved over the objections of the timber industry itself, which will do everything possible to create panic among its own workers about changes to make logging better for everybody.
 
BRUCE BARNBAUM
Granite Falls, Wash., Oct. 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); EROSION (88%); FISHES (88%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); EROSION CONTROL (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



458 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Logging Thrives on Economic Scare Tactics;
Mining's False Prophets

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Further on your Oct. 11 front-page article on "timber-dependent" Oregon: Western Montana, despite mill closings and projections of the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, is also in the midst of an economic boom, with unemployment rates at 25-year lows. 
 In Oregon, the threat of massive job losses was used to force public natural resource managers to allow the lumber companies to clear-cut the last of this country's ancient forests. It is important to reflect on this phony economic blackmail.
In the early 1970's, when reclamation laws were proposed for Federal strippable coal, the mining industry predicted those laws would mean economic catastrophe for the coal mining industry. Hysterical claims and a Presidential veto preceded passage of the 1977 Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act.
As has been true in the Pacific Northwest with timber, the economic threats used to block strip mine reclamation proved false. Not only did surface mining of coal not halt because of environmental regulations, but it even continued to expand, and coal companies continued to make handsome profits.
Consider the current debate over the 1872 Mining Law. The mining industry claims that any significant change in how the public allows access to publicly owned mineral deposits will lead to the collapse of metal mining in the United States, the loss of 50,000 jobs and the "shaking of the very foundation of America's industrial base."
As research by the Congressional Budget Office and "Not All That Glitters," my 1994 study for the Mineral Policy Center, have pointed out, these are absurd claims, which have the same reliability as those made about timber harvests in Oregon and stripmining of coal.
Only 4 out of every 10,000 jobs in the United States are found in metal mining (0.04 percent), and only a small fraction of those are associated with mineral deposits on Federal lands. All of the jobs that might be lost as a result of ending the unbusinesslike Federal mineral giveaways can be expected to be made up by a single day of normal job growth in the Western states.
More important, since the economic revival of the West is driven by the pursuit of high-quality living environments, protecting the West's landscape from some of the ravages of chemical strip mining improves its economic base, rather than harming it. It is time for our politicians to stop submitting to the outrageous economic blackmail of the extractive industries.
 
THOMAS M. POWER
Prof. of Economics, U. of Montana
Missoula, Mont., Oct. 12, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MINES & MINING (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAND RECLAMATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); COAL MINING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); METAL ORE MINING (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BUDGETS (72%); VETO (69%); TRENDS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1994



459 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Sellars's Merchant Of Venice Beach

BYLINE: By DAVID RICHARDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 14

 BODY:
At 37, Peter Sellars, the enfant terrible of the American theater, is no longer an enfant, but terrible is still an operative adjective.
If you exclude Robert Wilson, no American director so polarizes spectators, rankling some and enthralling others. With his staging of "The Merchant of Venice" for the Goodman Theater here, Mr. Sellars is running true to form. 
 Delivered at a glacial pace, with only tables and chairs for a set, the production lasts four daunting hours. At one recent performance, two-thirds of the audience bolted at intermission and those who held out to the end had the glazed look of hit-and-run victims. At the curtain call, there were bravos nonetheless.
Even as I count myself among the dazed, I can't entirely dismiss the production's unconventional fascinations. This cool, splintered view of "The Merchant of Venice" may have no more to do with traditional Shakespeare than a hand-lettered scroll has to do with E-mail, but it does say something disturbing about American malaise in the 1990's.
Mr. Sellars's Venice is the raffish Southern California beach town -- meeting ground, if not melting pot, for blacks, whites, Hispanic- and Asian-Americans. Racial divisions are deep, and the Rodney King riots lurk in the back of everyone's consciousness. By the end of the play, when Shakespeare's characters are usually celebrating blissful unions, the director has them stumbling through the viscous darkness before dawn.
Although the words remain Shakespeare's, Mr. Sellars puts such an idiosyncratic spin on scenes that he might as well be rewriting the script. Shylock, the Jewish moneylender, is portrayed by Paul Butler, a black actor. Portia (Elaine Tse) and her entourage are Asian-Americans. From the Spanish-speaking sector come Antonio (Geno Silva), the titular merchant, and Bassanio, who were lovers once, apparently, even if Bassanio (John Ortiz) is now intent on winning Portia's hand.
Portia, arguably one of Shakespeare's smartest and liveliest heroines, has become in Mr. Sellars's interpretation of things a perpetually distraught woman of abiding neuroses. As for the clowns, Old Gobbo and his son, Launcelot, they are white. Launcelot (Philip Seymour Hoffman), what's more, is all shouted rancor and not funny in the least, while Old Gobbo wears a sandwich board covered with biblical graffiti.
Mr. Sellars argues in a director's note that such innovations extend "the metaphor and the reality of anti-Semitism" to include "parallel struggles and their related issues." Does the approach make sense? No, not always. But then, the director -- who once plopped King Lear down in a Lincoln Continental, made room in Chekhov's "Seagull" for a laser show and is forever standing Mozart's operas on their heads -- has never been one for literalism. He is purposefully breaking up accepted notions of "The Merchant of Venice," dismantling characters' psyches and spreading out all the pieces for us to examine.
Much of the production is relayed over nine television monitors, positioned onstage and in the auditorium. Just as Shylock prepares to deliver his celebrated speech "Hath not a Jew eyes?" he deliberately turns his back on the audience. Only because a supernumerary is focusing a hand-held video camera on the actor's face, do we see it -- larger than life, but also stripped of any visceral immediacy -- on the monitors. Similarly, rather than address each other, the characters often talk into the microphones that stand at either side of the stage and sit on the various tables.
What Mr. Sellars sees happening to society at large -- a pulling apart of the races and a general breakdown of humanity -- happens to his performers as well, who become less than the sum of their parts. Frequently, a conscious effort is required to match voice and body, face and feeling. You get the impression, after a while -- as actors hunch over microphones and their profiles are splashed across the monitors -- that you're watching a Congressional investigation into "The Merchant of Venice."
It's a daring approach, but one that carries severe consequences. Emotions, thus fragmented, lose their power to move us. The great Shakespearean lines register as objective evidence, not as the spontaneous expression of wounded hearts and angry minds. Mr. Sellars may possess a quick and restless intellect, but passion, direct and undiluted, makes him uneasy. Invariably, he finds ways to hold it at a distance.
The stage is largely bare. The only sense of place is conveyed by video clips -- waves washing up on a beach, a luxuriant Bel Air flower garden and, of course, blurred shots of riot-torn Los Angeles -- and by sound effects that range from the distant roar of the freeway to the chirping of birds. James F. Ingalls, aiming shafts of light at the upstage wall, turns actors into stalking shadows, while Dunya Ramicova's costumes recognize that Southern California has always been something of a sartorial grab bag. In its abstract way, the oddly beautiful design captures much of the lemony-yellow ambiance of Los Angeles, as well as its sulfurous and dangerous depths.
The performers are another matter. Subservient to Mr. Sellars's overarching vision, they have little life and psychology of their own. Mr. Butler's Shylock is clearly and resonantly spoken, but the only truly moving aspect of the performance is his sad, stern face with its enormous folds of flesh, blown up large for the television screens. Ms. Tse, a svelte and alert Portia, dissolves into a mass of nerve endings and nearly comes unhinged during the trial scene. A rare note of playfulness is provided by Lori Tan Chinn, as Nerissa. But since Mr. Sellars categorically refuses to acknowledge the romantic aspects of the play, she and such actors as Mr. Ortiz, Rene Rivera (Lorenzo), Portia Johnson (Jessica) and Carlos Sanz (Gratiano) often seem stranded in limbo.
Love is, in fact, suspect from the start. "In a country in which economic well being is the only consideration," Mr. Sellars says, "there can be no well being." Accordingly, his "Merchant of Venice" is meant to be a chronicle of dislocation and psychosis, played against a backdrop of racial unrest. That may be just the ticket for the Europeans who will get to see the production after the Chicago run ends on Nov. 5. (It is scheduled to play engagements in London, Hamburg and Paris.)
Americans may be somewhat less convinced. Provocative as the director's thinking is, throughout this "Merchant" one nettlesome question looms above all others: Wouldn't Mr. Sellars be a more potent force in the theater if he felt more and actually thought less?
 
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE
By William Shakespeare; directed by Peter Sellars; costumes by Dunya Ramicova; lighting by James F. Ingalls; sound by Bruce Odland; dramaturge, Richard Pettengill; production stage manager, Michele Steckler; stage managers, Elizabeth Burgess and T. Paul Lynch; producer for Mr. Sellars, Diane J. Malecki. Presented by the Goodman Theater, Robert Falls, artistic director; Roche Schulfer, executive director. In Chicago.
 
WITH: Geno Silva (Antonio), Joe Quintero (Salerio), Richard Coca (Solanio), John Ortiz (Bassanio), Rene Rivera (Lorenzo), Carlos Sanz (Gratiano), Elaine Tse (Portia), Lori Tan Chinn (Nerissa), Midori Nakamura (Balthasar), Dorcas M. Johnson (Stephano), Paul Butler (Shylock), Tyrone Beasley (Prince of Morocco and Jailer), Philip Seymour Hoffman (Launcelot Gobbo), Del Close (Old Gobbo and the Duke of Venice), David Anzuelo (Leonardo), Portia Johnson (Jessica), Anjul Nigam (Prince of Arragon) and Ernest Perry Jr. (Tubal).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elaine Tse playing Portia playing a man of the law in Shakespeare's trial concerning a "pound of flesh," at the Goodman Theater in Chicago. (Liz Lauren/"The Merchant of Venice")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MERCHANT OF VENICE (PLAY)
ORGANIZATION: GOODMAN THEATRE (CHICAGO, ILL);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (89%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); OPERA (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); RACE & RACISM (66%); ASIAN AMERICANS (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); RELIGION (63%); HIT & RUN (55%); RIOTS (51%); 

PERSON: PETER SELLARS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994



460 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-14
 
U.S. APPROVES KOREA AID
President Clinton approved the plan for $4 billion in energy aid for North Korea in exchange for its commitment to freeze and dismantle its nuclear weapons program. A1
 
CHINESE MILITARY HEAR PERRY
Defense Secretary William J. Perry spoke to a military audience in China, part of an effort to create more openness and ease concerns. A14 

IRAQ PLOY BACKFIRED
Iraq's effort to force the United Nations to lift the sanctions it imposed after the Persian Gulf war has backfired, leaving it with few options. A10
 
RETURNING LAND TO JORDAN
Israeli farmers on the land that will be returned to Jordan and leased back to israel under the new agreement say they are not concerned if it helps bring peace. A12
 
For Clinton, foreign climes beat the campaign trail. A12
 
Jordan has shifted sides in its stance on Iraq. A12
 
Syria criticized Israel's agreement with Jordan. A13
 
RWANDAN DISAPPEARS WITH CASH
Rwanda's Foreign Minister and $187,000 in cash he was carrying for its United Nations mission, have disappeared in New York. A11
 
HAITIAN CONCERN ON GUNMEN
Haitians are concerned about the unwillingness of American troops to arrest gunmen who have terrorized the population. A3
 
The third American military suicide in Haiti stirred concern. A3
 
MEXICO OPENS MARKETS
Mexico's decision to open its financial services markets to foreign companies was hailed by executives who see the move as a shot in the arm for the flagging economy. D2
 
SERBS ATTACK AID CONVOY
The Bosnian Serbs attacked an aid convoy, killing a driver, but the United Nations commander in Sarajevo rejected demands for retaliatory air strikes. A6
 
Romania sentenced a British couple for baby smuggling. A6
 
German Communists plan to work within the system. A5
 
Honeymoon is over for the French Prime Minister. A7
 
Caracas Journal: The violent prisons of Venzuela. A4
 
National A16-21, B8-10
 
TEXANS STRANDED BY FLOODING
As relentless rain pounded southeast Texas for a third straight day, flooding stranded hundreds and drove at least 10,000 people into shelters around Houston. A1
 
SIMPSON JUDGE ALLOWS EVIDENCE
Judge Lance Ito refused to exclude blood samples from the trial even though prosecutors waited nearly three months before beginning DNA testing of them. A1
 
JUDICIAL THUNDER SANS LIGHTNING
In what has become a pattern in the Simpson trial, Judge Ito threatens wayward lawyers, journalists or officers, then days later and decibels lower fails to follow through. B10
 
KENNEDY GOES ON ATTACK
Senator Edward Kennedy is fighting for his political life on the ground he finds comfortable: defending government as an instrument of hope. A1
 
ABANDONED IN THE HEARTLAND
In the ruins of health care reform, five families in Middle America found their hopes for universal coverage transformed into contempt for Washington. B9
 
A COVEN OF CANDIDATES
New advertisements by Democrats portray the Republicans' "contract with America" as a sinister and frightening ceremony. B8
 
STANFORD AND NAVY SETTLE
In settling a fraud case involving research money, Stanford University agreed to repay a fraction of the Navy's original claim. A16
 
THE BIG GREEN ECONOMY
A state-by-state study suggested that governments need not sacrifice environmental quality in order to achieve economic well being. A18
 
FORMER CONGRESSMAN INDICTED
In the latest spinoff from the House post office scandal, a Federal grand jury indicted a former Democratic representative from Pennsylvania, on five felony charges. A21
 
Education Page B11
 
A bill to be signed today gives schools new spending flexibility.
 
American students in Moscow become vulnerable to crime.
 
Class notes: Campuses are divided over Homecoming Weekend.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
GANG-FIGHTING WEAPON
A law originally intended to combat the Mafia is being used to fight gang violence. In one New York City police precinct alone, homicides have been reduced by more than half. A1
 
BYSTANDERS FIGHT BACK
Several bystanders helped trap a robber who had stabbed a man at an automated teller machine on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. A1
 
CHANGING STANDS IS CRITICIZED
In his campaign for governor, John G. Rowland is now promising to rid Connecticut of its new income tax. His three opponents call his new position an example of how he is ruled by political expediency. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-9
 
Health Page C11
 
Personal Health: New ways to help children with epilepsy.
Researchers take a sober second look at Prozac.
 
Sports B13-18
 
Obituaries B12
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Building and bashing landmarks in Chicago. C13
Film: "Vanya on 42d Street" C13
Dance: Netherlands Dance Theater. C13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
Nuclear breakthrough in Korea.
Peace across the Jordan.
Brent Staples: Aunt Jemima.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Promises and deficits.
Anna Quindlen: After the rape.
Jim Holt: Anti-social science?
 
Chronicle B10
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); HAITI (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); RWANDA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (75%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); HAITI (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); RWANDA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (75%); GULF STATES (57%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (71%); FORENSICS (71%); SENTENCING (68%); JUDGES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); DNA (60%); DNA TESTING (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); TED KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



461 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: MASSACHUSETTS;
An Icon of 60's Liberalism Goes on the Attack

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, revered and reviled as liberalism's lawmaker, is fighting the battle of his political life on the ground he finds comfortable, defending government as an instrument of hope even as his opponent ridicules him as a man of "another time."
Mitt Romney, the Republicans' hope for their biggest single victory of the fall, uses television to portray the 62-year-old incumbent as fat and feeble, an irrelevant symbol of the 1960's who stands in the way of welfare reform, the death penalty and a smaller government that, the challenger says, would let the economy boom. 
 This week Mr. Kennedy replied, confronting the season's anti-government mood at a rally on Sunday at historic Faneuil Hall. "I stand for the idea that public service can make a difference in the lives of people," he said. "I reject the laissez-faire notion that all government has to do is get out of the way, and kind, caring, generous, unselfish, wealthy private interests and power will see to it that prosperity trickles down to ordinary people."
In his speech, the Senator rededicated himself to the ideals of his brother President John F. Kennedy. He said that if critics of the 60's meant the era of the "longest uninterrupted period of growth in history" or "the 1960's that asked us to do our best and to give something back to our country, then I am proud to be associated with the 60's."
For now, the general impression among politicians here is that the Senator holds a very modest lead but that the race is basically a tossup.
The messages of the two candidates differ as night does from day. On Saturday, for instance, Mr. Romney walked the tidy streets of South Boston, where anger against Mr. Kennedy over school busing that began in 1974 still simmers. "The 1960's liberal agenda hasn't worked," he told people as he shook hands. "It is time to reform the reforms."
At bottom, the election is a referendum on Mr. Kennedy. Some columnists and talk-show hosts want it to turn on the night in 1991 when he took his son Patrick and his nephew William K. Smith for drinks at a bar in Palm Beach, Fla. Dr. Smith, who returned to the Kennedy home there with a woman, was later charged with raping her but was acquitted.
To those opponents, Mr. Kennedy's weight and lined face reflect years of hard living. Mr. Romney's ads, showing a grainy, overweight Senator lumbering about, reinforce the point. In one, Mr. Kennedy, who broke his back in an airplane crash in 1964 and has worn a brace ever since, is shown painfully lowering himself onto a bench while the voice-over accuses the incumbent of "stooping" to attack Mr. Romney.
The Kennedy side wants a test instead of the man whom Representative Barney Frank introduced on Monday as having "the most productive record certainly of any senator in this century, a leader for civil rights, health insurance, education, the author of laws from Meals on Wheels to family and medical leave."
At home he is, most of all, the senior Senator with clout, whose ads tell of jobs he has saved and new ones he has brought to Massachusetts. In Washington, he is known as chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee and the senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee. But here he emphasizes the jobs potential of his lesser seat on the Armed Services Committee.
Pumped up after Sunday's speech, Mr. Kennedy carried its theme of the future through the state on Monday. "This election," he told students at the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, is about whether the voters will choose someone "able to go to the Senate of the United States and build coalitions," someone who "has the experience and the know-how to make a difference for Massachusetts."
The speech on Sunday, Mr. Kennedy said in an interview, was intended to "set out what drives the campaign" and to point it toward the next six years.
Yet Sunday's setting also offered a painful glimpse backward. The last time Mr. Kennedy made a major political speech in Faneuil Hall, with its heroic painting of Daniel Webster and its scowling statue of John Adams, he was announcing his candidacy for the 1980 Democratic Presidential nomination. That was a campaign that failed for many reasons that were out of his hands by 1979, from Mary Jo Kopechne's drowning at Chappaquiddick 10 years earlier to the underrated skill and tenacity of President Jimmy Carter. But there was also a crucial flaw that Mr. Kennedy could have prevented: he started too late.
And that is a question again in 1994. This campaign coasted through the late summer, seemingly overconfident, leaving the airwaves to Mr. Romney's attack ads. On primary night, Sept. 20, Mr. Romney gave a dazzling victory speech in which he identified himself as a "rocket" of change. Mr. Kennedy's halting reading of his own victory speech made it seem very plausible, perhaps likely, that the hopes of the millionaire businessman and political novice would be fulfilled.
Since then, Mr. Kennedy's own attack ads have dented Mr. Romney a bit, pointing out that some of the venture capitalist's companies have cut jobs instead of creating them. But questions that Mr. Kennedy and a nephew, Representative Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., raised about the challenger's longtime leadership role in the Mormon Church, which until 1978 excluded blacks from the clergy, may have backfired.
With Congress adjourned, Senator Kennedy has been in Massachusetts almost full time, finding his voice, rousing students at one stop and the elderly at another. Mr. Romney has seemed rattled by receiving, rather than just issuing, televised attacks. Longtime Kennedy hands are taking time off and turning up to help. One former administrative assistant, David Burke, an investment banker, travels with Mr. Kennedy continually; another, Ranny Cooper, seems to be in charge at headquarters.
Each side will spend millions more in the next three weeks -- mostly on television, although Mr. Kennedy will also put $1 million into a get-out-the-vote operation.
But the crucial moment may come a week from today, in another event redolent of history: the first of two televised debates between the candidates.
Mr. Kennedy's first nomination, in 1962, was sealed by a debate between himself and Edward McCormack, a State Attorney General who thought that his experience entitled him to the nomination over the President's youngest brother. Mr. Kennedy, on the other hand, wanted to portray Mr. McCormack as a symbol of that day's old politics.
In trying to show how much more he knew about government and issues, Mr. McCormack came across as overbearing. He said Mr. Kennedy was running on name and family, and closed the debate by declaring that if the young man's name were not Edward Moore Kennedy but instead "Edward Moore, your candidacy would be a joke."
This time it is Mr. Romney, not Mr. Kennedy, who argues for change and wants to start at the top. It is the 47-year-old Mr. Romney who looks youthful in a state that has never before seen a campaigning Kennedy in late middle age. And it is Mr. Kennedy, not Mr. McCormack, who travels the state saying he has the experience, the influence and the political skill to get things done in Washington.
Mr. Romney says the debates will help him because exposure on television will give "people a grounding in who I am." He professes nervousness, and is skeptical about local newspaper expectations that the Senator's sometimes fractured syntax will make him seem inarticulate.
Each side seems likely to spend about $10 million before the race is over, and Mr. Romney says he is ready to add to the $2 million of his own money that he has already put into the campaign. "That was part of the plan," he said in an interview on Saturday.
Polls show few people undecided about Mr. Kennedy. "We just need to get rid of that liberal nitwit," said Grace Chandler in South Boston. But Cliff Danue, a retired engineer in Attleboro, said: "You always remember what the Democrats did for you. I'll vote for him every time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, Senator Edward M. Kennedy stressed his experience. (pg. A1); Thirty-two years ago, the youthful political novice stumping for the Senate in Massachusetts was Edward M. Kennedy. This time it is his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, a 47-year-old venture capitalist, who got out to meet the voters of Boston at a campaign gathering on Saturday. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. B8)
; Chart: "THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: Massachusetts"
 
Senate Race
 Democrat: Edward M. Kennedy, 62
 Republican: Mitt Romney, 47
 
Analysis
 While many incumbents are trying to fashion themselves as Washington outsiders, Senator Kennedy insists that his clout there helps Massachusetts and his view of government as a powerful force helps the nation. Mr. Romney, the son of former Gov. George Romney of Michigan, ridicules him as out of date, and offers a younger image as a conservative voice for change.
 
Registered Voters
 DEM. 1,224,887
 REP. 396,344
 IND 1,424,840
 
Latest Poll Results
 A survey of 404 likely voters by The Boston Globe and WBZ-TV Oct. 4-5 showed Mr. Kennedy with 49 percent, Mr. Romney with 44 percent, with the rest undecided or unwilling to state a preference. Margin of sampling error, plus or minus five percentage points. A survey for The Boston Herald and WCVB-TV Oct. 4-6 showed Mr. Kennedy with 44 percent, Mr. Romney with 46 percent and 12 percent undecided. Margin of sampling error plus or minus five percentage points. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) PALM BEACH HOTEL (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES LIBERALISM (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (63%); REFERENDUMS (60%); WRITERS (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); ROMNEY, MITT TED KENNEDY (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



462 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Ricans on Mainland Making Gains, Study Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
Puerto Ricans born in the 50 states made striking economic gains in the 1980's -- so striking that, by one measure, their income now surpasses that of Hispanic residents generally and of American-born blacks, a new national study has concluded. But those who migrated to the mainland from Puerto Rico lag behind mainland-born Puerto Ricans in income, education and employment.
The study also found that Puerto Ricans had moved beyond longtime geographical enclaves. Among Puerto Ricans living in the 50 states in 1960, two in three were residents of New York City; today, fewer than one in three is. 
 The study was conducted for the National Puerto Rican Coalition, a Washington-based advocacy group, by Dr. Francisco L. Rivera-Batiz of Teachers College at Columbia University and Dr. Carlos Santiago of the State University of New York at Albany. It was partly intended to counter stereotypes of Puerto Rican underachievement and to buttress the coalition's fight against deficient housing, health care and education and other barriers to employment and economic advancement.
"There is a stereotypical view of Puerto Ricans in the minds of many," says the study, which is to be issued in Washington today. "This view is that Puerto Ricans constitute a more or less homogeneous group standing at the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder in the country. It is often perceived that, in contrast to other Hispanic groups, Puerto Ricans have failed to achieve significant economic progress in the United States. The evidence presented in this research report shatters these stereotypes."
The study, drawing on 1990 census results made available only recently, dealt with Puerto Ricans living on the American mainland. It found a substantial increase in income, although it also found that this increase masked contrasts between two Puerto Rican populations roughly equal in size: one showing significant gains, the other stagnant.
Measuring average household income per person, the study recorded a 29 percent increase for Puerto Ricans generally during the 1980's. That average household income per person increased 32 percent among those born on the mainland, to $8,379, and 24 percent among those born in Puerto Rico, to $8,360. (The 29 percent overall increase, the largest such gain by any major ethnic or racial group, partly reflected a decline in the size of an average Puerto Rican household.)
The result offered a marked contrast to 1979, when only Dominicans trailed Puerto Ricans in income among Hispanic American groups. The gains of the following decade gave Puerto Ricans in 1989 an income figure that was higher than for Hispanic Americans over all and for blacks. It remained lower than the household income for Americans of Cuban or South American descent, however, and was only about half what non-Hispanic whites earned.
The study found that the biggest gains in income, education and employment by Puerto Rican men and women alike had been registered largely by those born on the mainland. Among all people born in the 50 states, the rate of Puerto Rican men who were employed or looking for jobs -- what the study called the rate of labor participation -- was higher than for blacks and for Hispanic people over all; for Puerto Rican women, it was higher than even the national average of all women.
But among all immigrants (a category in which the study placed Puerto Ricans who had moved to the mainland), Puerto Ricans had the lowest rates of labor participation.
The study also traced a shift by Puerto Ricans out of enclaves like New York City. From 1980 to 1990, the Puerto Rican population grew at its highest rate in Florida, Massachusetts, Texas and Connecticut. Nearly half of all Puerto Ricans on the mainland still live in New York or New Jersey. But about 1 in 10 lives in Florida, and Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Illinois and California each is home to about 1 in 20.
"It is evident that the community has polarized into two groups," said Louis Nunez, president of the National Puerto Rican Coalition. "One shows significant movement into white-collar occupations, significant gains in education and movement to the Sun Belt; the other, mostly non-high school graduates, live in the decaying neighborhoods of the older cities."
Angelo Falcon, president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy in New York, agreed that even with the gains, "you're still talking about a community with one of the highest poverty rates in the country, and the growing middle class is growing in places like Texas and Florida."
In their discussion of the stereotyping of Puerto Ricans, the study's authors placed some blame on Linda Chavez, director of the Manhattan Institute's Center for the New American Community, who has written about disparities in the progress of Hispanic groups in the United States.
When asked about the study's criticism, Ms. Chavez said, "Sometimes people use me for a foil, only to find they agree with some of what I'm saying."
She said the study gave reason for optimism. "In education and individual earnings, Puerto Ricans are not at the bottom," she said. "The problem is you have bifurcated communities: those in the labor force who are doing quite well, and a very large underclass."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL PUERTO RICAN COALITION (56%); NATIONAL PUERTO RICAN COALITION (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL PUERTO RICAN COALITION (56%); NATIONAL PUERTO RICAN COALITION (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUERTO RICANS; INCOME; POPULATION SHIFTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (86%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); CENSUS (66%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



463 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Merck and Lilly Post Strong Earnings and Sales

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Two big pharmaceutical companies, Eli Lilly and Merck, reported strong quarterly sales and earnings growth yesterday. SmithKline Beecham, also an important drug maker, reported a relatively modest 4.9 percent gain as it struggled with price-cutting for generic copies of its flagship Tagamet, a widely used anti-ulcer treatment.
Analysts said the industry would report earnings growth of 5 to 8 percent in the third quarter, reflecting reduced spending for sales and marketing and aggressive discounting to increase volume. 
 "Most drug companies did better than expected," said Barbara Ryan, an analyst with Alex. Brown & Sons.
Jack Lamberton of NatWest Securities said price "deflation" appeared to be moderating. He said health maintenance organizations and other managed-care insurers might have eased their demands for drug discounts after the collapse of proposals in Washington to regulate insurance premiums.
Eli Lilly & Company and Merck & Company were well ahead of the pack. Reporting an extraordinary sales quarter for Prozac, its billion-dollar-a-year antidepressant, Lilly said net income rose 22 percent, excluding a charge for research it acquired early last month in buying the Sphinx Pharmaceutical Corporation. With the charge, profits rose 8.3 percent.
Merck, the world's largest drug maker, said net income was up 11.4 percent from the third quarter of 1993, despite the lower profit margins of its Medco managed-care unit. With help from Medco's distribution networks, sales in Merck's traditional drug-making businesses increased 15 percent in the quarter. Overall sales, including Medco's, rose 49 percent.
Joyce Albers of First Boston Securities said the results for the Indianapolis-based Lilly were "far better than anyone would ever have imagined." The company had alerted investors last month that the news would be good. "Prozac is really coming through in spades," she said.
Prozac sales accelerated an extra $70 million as distributors filled their inventories after a 3.5 percent price increase was announced.
But Mr. Lamberton of NatWest said Lilly's profit margins were down, reflecting price-cutting. He said the company might have a down quarter in the current three-month period, as Prozac sales slacken after the inventory buildup.
Ms. Ryan said an important question was whether Lilly's agreement to buy PCS, a big managed-care and drug distribution unit of the McKesson Corporation, would go through as planned. The company said last week that it was postponing completion of the deal while it responded to concerns of the Federal Trade Commission staff, which is reportedly examining possible anti-competitive effects of the $4 billion proposal.
The commission, however, did approve similar recent purchases of managed-care units by Merck and SmithKline Beecham P.L.C.
Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., said quarterly earnings per share remained flat despite the profit growth, mainly because additional Merck shares were issued in the Medco acquisition. It said sales growth was led by newer products. SmithKline, based in London, said its earnings benefited from the amortization of good will in the purchase of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, a managed-care drug distributor. Ms. Ryan said SmithKline's pharmaceutical sales included conflicting trends. Tagamet, which used to be a $1 billion blockbuster, was down 56 percent, to $125 million, in the quarter. But new products, including Paxil, an antidepressant; Relafen for arthritis, and Kytril, to help overcome nausea during chemotherapy for cancer, rose by 83 percent, to $341 million, in the period.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Lilly (Eli) & Co. (LLY,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	1,817,400,000	1,530,600,000	+18.7	Net inc.	b318,700,000	294,400,000	+8.3	Sh. earn	1.10	1.00	 	Sh. out.	289,070,000	293,500,000	 	9m sls.	5,132,900,000	4,651,600,000	+10.3	Net inc.	b996,000,000	c1,003,800,000	-.8	Sh. earn	3.44	3.42	 	Sh. out.	289,247,000	293,549,000	 	
 
b-After a net charge of $40 million, or 14 cents a share, for the acquisition of Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corp. in the quarter and 9 months. The 9 months also included charges equal to 29 cents a share from costs associated with a voluntary recall of three of the company's oral antibiotics and from acquisition of Sphinx Pharmaceuticals.
c-After an accounting charge of $10.9 million, or 4 cents a share, for adoption of FASB 112.
The company said that the year-ago 9 months also included the effects of the March 31 voluntary recall of three of the company's liquid oral antibiotics, which reduced net income.
Sales represented worldwide sales.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$58.875
Up 25
 
"Merck & Co. (MRK,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	3,792,000,000	2,544,100,000	+49	Net inc.	784,800,000	705,700,000	+11.4	Sh. earn	0.62	0.62	 	Sh. out.	1,260,900,000	1,136,000,000	 	9m sls.	11,098,300,000	7,497,400,000	+48	Net inc.	2,224,100,000	b1,492,000,000	+49	Sh. earn	1.77	1.31	 	Sh. out.	1,257,900,000	1,139,200,000	 	
 
b-Included a restructuring charge; excluding the charge, net income was $2,013,000,000, or $1.77 a share.
 Sales for the quarter and the first 9 months were affected by the Medco acquisition in 1993 and the 9 months' results were also hurt by the sale of the Calgon Water Management business in the second quarter of 1993.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$35.50
Down 62.5
 
"SmithKline Beecham (SBH,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Sales	2,425,000,000	2,211,000,000	+9.7	Net inc.	320,000,000	305,000,000	+4.9	Sh. earn	.60	.57	 	9m sls.	6,993,000,000	6,614,000,000	+5.7	Net inc.	955,000,000	845,000,000	+13	Sh. earn	1.78	1.58	 	
 
Sales are from continuing operations.
Figures for net income and share earnings excluded exceptional items.
Share earnings represented earnings per equity unit American depository receipt (A.D.R.)
Results in U.S. dollars have been translated from pounds sterling. The exchange rate used for the latest 9 months and year-ago period is the average rate for the nine months ended Sept. 30, of 1 pound sterling equaled $1.51.
The third-quarter amounts are calculated by deducting the 6 months' translated amounts from the 9 months' translated amounts.
 
Yesterday's A.D.R. closing price:
$34.625
Down 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); LLY (SWX) (94%); LLY (NYSE) (94%); GSK (NYSE) (85%); GSK (LSE) (85%); BIOC (EGX) (85%); MCK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS423450 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: LILLY, ELI, & CO; MERCK & CO INC; SMITHKLINE BEECHAM MERCK & CO INC (94%); ELI LILLY & CO (94%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (85%); MCKESSON CORP (84%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LILLY, ELI, & CO; MERCK & CO INC; SMITHKLINE BEECHAM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY PROFILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (93%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (69%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (61%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (53%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT BARBARA RYAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



464 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Busy 1st Day Of Trading For Indosat

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

 BODY:
Indonesia's state-owned international telecommunications company, the P. T. Indonesia Satellite Corporation, made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, with a 17 percent rise in its first day of trading.
Indonesia's role as an emerging market and past successes among telephone companies being privatized in other countries seemed to attract buyers as much as the potential of the company, which is also known as Indosat. 
 Merrill Lynch & Company, the lead underwriter, called Indosat the largest overseas stock offering ever by an Asian company. The Indonesian Government will keep 65 percent and sell 10 percent on its domestic market; the remaining 25 percent sold worldwide is expected to raise more than $1 billion.
American depository receipts for shares in Indosat were priced at $32.00, traded as high as $40, and closed at $37.50. More than 9 million A.D.R.'s changed hands, making it the exchange's most active issue. A.D.R.s are traded in lieu of shares for foreign companies listed on American markets.
The interest in Indosat, fund managers said, came in part from buyers eager for a piece of anything from Indonesia. With 180 million people, Indonesia is the fourth-most- populous country in the world; yet, it is little known in the United States.
"It's been a neglected market," said Anthony L. T. Cragg, a fund manager at Strong/Corneliuson Management Inc. in Menominee Falls, Wis. Mr. Cragg said he bought more than $3 million of the stock. "If you're going to go in there, this is a good long-term play."
Indosat is the second Indonesian company to be listed in the United States, after P. T. Tri Polytra, a petrochemical company that entered the market at $21 in July and rose sharply in the past week, as Indosat was oversubscribed. A.D.R.'s for Tri Polytra closed yesterday at $29.375, down 50 cents, in Nasdaq trading.
In contrast, two utilities from China have performed disappointingly. The Shandong Huaneng Power Company entered the market in September at $14.25, but closed yesterday at $11, a new low. And after it was listed on Oct. 6, Huaneng Power International sold virtually unchanged at $20 for a week. It closed yesterday at $18.75, up 75 cents.
Indosat, with 1,100 employees, had net income in 1993 of $116 million on revenues of $354 million.
To Mr. Cragg, Indosat's business is sure to grow as Indonesia becomes a bigger player in Asia's economy. He is also bullish on Indonesia, where he sees a smartly managed economy and political stability.
But the country's currency, the rupiah, is expected to continue its decline in value, which might concern Indosat's foreign investors.
Perhaps more important, coinciding with Indosat's privatization is a dismantling of its monopoly on international calls. A second company, whose investors include a son of President Suharto, will compete with Indosat for international telecommunications business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ISAT (IDX) (92%); K3FD (SGX) (52%); HNP (NYSE) (52%); 0902 (HKSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (93%); SIC3317 STEEL PIPE & TUBES (93%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2823 CELLULOSIC MANMADE FIBERS (93%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (93%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); SHANDONG, CHINA (57%); 

COMPANY: INDONESIA SATELLITE CORP (INDOSAT); MERRILL LYNCH & CO PT INDONESIA STEEL TUBE WORKS (93%); PT INDONESIA SYNTHETIC TEXTILE MILLS (93%); PT INDONESIA REPUBLIC MOTOR CO (93%); PT INDONESIA TORAY SYNTHETICS (93%); PT INDONESIA ASAHAN ALUMINIUM (93%); PT INDOSAT TBK (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); PT TRI POLYTA INDONESIA TBK (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); HUANENG POWER INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDONESIA SATELLITE CORP (INDOSAT); MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); SHANDONG, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRIVATIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); BONDS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



465 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad's Kuwait Caper: Its Isolation Gets Deeper

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Two weeks after Iraq moved troops toward Kuwait in what some diplomats called a gamble to get the United Nations to lift crippling trade sanctions, the sanctions remain in place and Baghdad has little room for diplomatic or military maneuvering.
Baghdad's hope that Washington's swift military response could be checked by nations like France, Russia and China in the United Nations Security Council collapsed as the Council voted unanimously on Sunday to condemn Iraq's actions, as it has done repeatedly since the invasion of Kuwait in 1990. 
 The hope that a revived Russian diplomatic effort could rescue Baghdad, which had once relied on a close alliance with the Soviet Union, also collapsed. The Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, who led an effort to ease the pressure on Iraq last week, agreed on Monday with the United States Secretary of State, Warren M. Christopher, that the United States-Russian partnership in international matters was more important than Russia's concern for Iraq.
And within the Arab world, where Iraq found some support in the summer of 1990 when it annexed Kuwait, there has been, this time, only silence or condemnation.
Jordan, virtually the only link Iraq has had with the outside world, did not just distance itself from Baghdad. King Hussein warned last week that he would side against Iraq if it tried a military move against another Arab country. This week the King said he would sign a peace treaty with Israel, Iraq's archenemy.
This morning it looked indeed as though Iraq had been isolated, and it was far from clear what the Government of President Saddam Hussein could do to alter the situation.
Even recognition by Iraq of Kuwait's integrity and international borders -- a last card that Baghdad has been witholding as a bargaining chip -- no longer seems enough to get the United States and some of its allies, including Britain, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, to relent in their pressure to maintain the crippling four-year-old trade sanctions.
Iraqi officials and diplomats from European countries here are persuaded that the aim of the United States and its allies is to bring down the Government of President Hussein, not to obtain a fulfillment of United Nations resolutions.
"The thing is that every time we comply with an item of the United Nations resolution, they come up with another argument to keep the sanctions," a senior Iraqi official said in a conversation this weekend. "I am persuaded we cannot do enough to get these sanctions lifted by the Security Council because the goal of the sanctions in the mind of the United States is to starve the Iraqis into rebellion against their Government." Foreign diplomats here say this assessment is on the mark.
Asked what Iraq would do, the official seemed at a loss. After a while, he said: "America should change this vengeful attitude because it will result in a chaotic breakdown from which no one will benefit. Future generations of Iraqis will remember this."
The problem for Iraq, however, is what to do to save this generation of Iraqis from the suffering they are subjected to because of the sanctions, which prohibit all trade except for food and medicine.
Clearly, Iraqi decision-makers have yet to formulate an answer.
On Monday the Government convened its 250-member Parliament with the intent of officially recognizing Kuwait. But as the Security Council debate that followed the passing of the resolution dragged on in New York, it became clear that such a step would not be enough.
Finally the Parliament simply adopted a resolution that said it would do anything the leadership and President Hussein agreed to do.
This morning the Iraqi-controlled news organizations were busy looking for silver linings in this latest duel with the United States, with headlines announcing that the "big crossing" toward an end of the hardships had begun. Yet Government officials were conceding elsewhere what is becoming increasingly evident here: they are running out of concrete ways to cope with the situation.
Last month the meager rations guaranteed to every citizen, which barely fulfilled two-thirds of internationally recognized minimal nutrition requirements, were cut in half.
On Monday Iraq's Trade Minister, Saadi Mehdi Saleh, showed reporters the meager rations to which people are entitled now: a little rice, wheat flour, tea, sugar, cooking oil and detergents, saying "this is the quota for a people who are living on a lake of oil, one of the richest people in the world."
With its oil exports blocked by the United Nations, the Iraqi Government is simply running out of money, which means that Iraq is increasingly unable to guarantee the minimum requirements to feed its people.
Baghdad's apparent gamble that resorting to a military expedition might somehow help focus attention on its plight and result in lifting of the sanctions backfired as the United States moved thousands of troops and overwhelming air power to the region.
It is particularly galling for Iraq, which possesses the world's second largest oil reserves, after Saudi Arabia, to find its main source of revenue mothballed by the international community while the Saudis moved four years ago to take over Iraq's share of the international oil market. Four years ago that share stood at three million barrels a day.
When asked whether he can see the connection between the embargo and the behavior of the Iraqi Government, Mr. Saleh, the trade minister, vigorously responded: "We all stand behind President Saddam Hussein and are proud to follow him. We will resist."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



466 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: In Opening Its Finance, Mexico Bets Long Term

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Mexican and foreign executives alike welcomed Mexico's wide opening to foreign banks and brokerage houses today, putting aside the prospect of tougher competition to instead emphasize the shot in the arm for Mexico's flagging economy.
"This is a historic event," said Ricardo Guajardo, chairman of Grupo Financiero Bancomer, Mexico's second-largest financial organization. "These banks are definitely going to represent greater competition, but it is not going to come overnight." 
 In a long-awaited announcement on Monday night, the Finance Ministry said it was authorizing virtually all the foreign banks, brokerages and insurance companies that sought to enter the Mexican market.
All told, the Government said it will issue 52 licenses to 18 commercial banks, 16 securities firms, 12 insurance companies, 5 financial groups and a leasing company for one of the banks, Citibank.
A few applicants dropped out of the process, while a couple of others were asked by the ministry for more information. Officials said that in the coming weeks, they would act on the applications of several dozen leasing and bonding companies, mutual funds and other firms.
"There were no rejections," the deputy finance minister for banking, Guillermo Ortiz Martinez, said in an interview today.
Almost since the revolution of 1910, during or after which most foreign bankers in Mexico closed or sold their holdings, Citibank has been the country's lone foreign subsidiary, lending primarily to big corporations and other high-end clients.
Of the new banks now authorized -- which include Chemical Bank, the Bank of America and the Bank of Boston, Banco Santander of Spain and the Bank of Tokyo -- only Citibank is expected to compete with the 35 Mexican-owned commercial banks for retail customers.
Instead, most of the new entrants plan to expand business they have already begun to do with representative offices here -- areas like investment banking, corporate advisory services, trade financing and derivatives contracts.
"We have a great number of clients, not just in the United States but around the world, who see opportunity in Mexico," said Dennis Weatherstone, chairman and chief executive of J. P. Morgan, "and we will now be able to take care of them better."
Mr. Weatherstone, speaking by telephone from New York, said Morgan initially planned to bring about $100 million in capital to Mexico, eventually increasing its staff to 100 from 20 now. "We think there's enough business for us," he said.
Although officials say the licenses will bring about $1.2 billion in direct investment, the new banks' ability to lend in pesos is unlikely to mean much broad new credit beyond loans to big, blue-chip corporations and other wealthy clients, an area that is already the most competitive part of the Mexican financial market.
As a result, the prospect of foreigners' exerting downward pressure on Mexico's high interest rates -- now, for instance, 13.33 percent on a 28-day Treasury note -- is considered somewhat distant. Such rates, spilling over to business, limit the country's economic growth. Beyond that, banking-industry analysts say, the general lack of reliable credit information on smaller Mexican companies, discouraging to Mexican banks, will weigh even more heavily on foreigners' lending decisions.
"The competition will be in the corporate sector and international finance," Mr. Ortiz, the deputy finance minister, said. "But that is going to force Mexican banks to look for clients that have not traditionally interested them, like smaller and medium-sized companies. And with that, there will be a trickle-down effect."
Mexican officials also hope that the influx of foreigners will also help modernize finance, moving the country closer to the standards in international capital markets.
Foreign banks gained entry to Mexico as part of the wider opening to United States and Canadian investment under the North American Free Trade Agreement, which took effect on Jan. 1.
The accord initially limits foreign bankers to 8 percent of the total market, with the figure rising to 15 percent by 2000 and at least 25 percent by 2004, at which point the competition is opened entirely.
In practice, Mr. Ortiz said, the doubling in the capitalization of Mexican banks over the last two years and the limited ambitions of the new foreign licensees meant that the Government did not have to set limits on the capital of the new banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); SANT (LIS) (90%); SANT (BIT) (90%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (90%); SAN (NYSE) (90%); SAN (MCE) (90%); SAN (BMV) (90%); BNC (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (90%); CHEMICAL BANK (54%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (53%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (53%); FINANCE MINISTRY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM GUILLERMO ORTIZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



467 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Jordan's King Is Betting On a 'Peace Dividend'

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Oct. 18

 BODY:
During the Persian Gulf war three and a half years ago, Fouad al-Afghani did a brisk business selling key chains and lapel pins modeled on the 39 Iraqi Scud missiles that were fired at Israel. His jumbled store in downtown Amman still offers a T-shirt emblazoned with a Scud and the words, "Who will fire the 40th?"
These days, Mr. Afghani, 47, a Palestinian who barely knew his family's home in Jaffa before Israel became a state and he became a refugee, feels he has been left behind by the region's ever-shifting politics. 
 In many ways, the latest shift is embodied in the man who rules over him: King Hussein of Jordan.
During the gulf war, King Hussein looked east and aligned himself with Saddam Hussein, to the delight of people like Mr. Afghani who saw the Iraqi President as an Arab hero.
These days, Iraq is again challenging the United States, but this time the King is shunning Iraq and making peace with Israel, even trading admiring compliments with its Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, as Jordan and Israel initialed a draft peace treaty here on Monday.
"If you want to know the truth, this is a very bitter day," Mr. Afghani said. "If peace brings economic help, fine.
"But this peace means the end of the hope that I will ever get my home back again," he said of his family's former holdings. "The Israelis will never give you life."
Four years ago, passions like these among the Palestinians, who make up about two-thirds of Jordan's population of 4.2 million, drove the King to side with Iraq as Mr. Hussein sent troops into Kuwait and fulminated against Israel.
But today the Jordanian King is betting that the bulk of his people will embrace the views of other Palestinians like Ghassan Joumaa, 21, a vendor of perfumes and baby wear, who acknowledges that things have changed a lot since he took to the streets four years ago to rally behind Saddam Hussein.
"Today the situation is different," Mr. Joumaa said, breaking off the conversation to sell a pair of toddlers' tights. "Because of those days, we have suffered like the Iraqi people. So now it is time to make our own interests our priority, and we hope that our interests lie in peace."
"We have our hands on our hearts," he said, using an Arabic expression that means, roughly, "We're hoping for the best."
The King's 180-degree reversal since the gulf war shows how significantly the region's erstwhile cornerstone -- an implacable hostility to Israel -- has begun to buckle in the face of the deals Israel has struck with the Palestine Liberation Organization and Jordan and is now actively seeking with Syria.
In Jordan, a poor land surrounded by neighbors that are either more populous, more wealthy or more powerful -- and often all three -- it has a lot to do with money.
When Jordan and Israel signed an agreement earlier this year formally ending a 46-year state of war, the United States promised to move quickly to ease Jordan's huge debt and to increase economic aid.
With President Clinton planning to attend the final signing of the peace treaty next week at the Israeli-Jordanian border, Prime Minister Abdul-Salam al-Majali said today, "I'm sure that this moral support will be accompanied by a lot of economic support."
If there was one thought that consistently emerged in conversations with people in Jordan today, it was that peace with Israel would end the economic hard times that resulted from their support for Iraq.
As a result of that stand, the wealthy gulf countries expelled some 350,000 Palestinians, who flooded into Jordan's labor market and drove up unemployment.
Without jobs in the gulf, Jordanians could no longer send home the billion dollars in remittances that helped keep the economy afloat. Saudi Arabia completely severed financial aid, and, unlike Kuwait, has not even slightly softened its stand since then. The United States and other Western countries also cut off financial support.
With few natural resources of its own, and its water resources dwindling, Jordan was under strong pressure to wrest whatever economic gain it could get from peace negotiations.
"Jordan remains almost numb" from economic pressures ranging from water shortages to chronically high unemployment and poverty, a commentator, Rami Khouri, wrote in today's Jordan Times. He said those problems were "generating a frantic willingness to do whatever is required of it to survive."
After 42 years on the throne, King Hussein is known as a survivor. After the P.L.O. struck its own deal with Israel a year ago, Jordan began scrambling to deal itself back into regional diplomacy, even though not everyone approved.
Its neighbor Syria, increasingly isolated by the peace moves, immediately expressed opposition to the draft treaty initialed on Monday, repeating its long-held position of opposing two-way accords.
"There will be no stability in the region without achieving just and comprehensive peace, the Syrian Foreign Minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, said in Damascus today. "That is why we always criticize bilateral treaties." Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, flew to Cairo for a hastily arranged visit apparently spurred by his worries over the treaty.
The P.L.O., which has long vied with King Hussein for the right to speak for Palestinians, challenged the peace accord in one highly charged area: the stewardship of Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem.
When Jordan and Israel renounced hostilities in July, Israel formally pronounced that Jordan had a special status in administering those sites -- an important issue for King Hussein, as the ruler of the Hashemite dynasty, which claims descent from the prophet Mohammed. The draft treaty initialed on Monday reaffirmed Jordan's role as custodian, Prime Minister Majali said today.
The P.L.O. also claims stewardship over the shrines and calls East Jerusalem the capital of an eventual Palestinian state. Last weekend, both sides appointed rival muftis in Jerusalem, and today the P.L.O. called Jordan's position a "flagrant violation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (98%); IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; ISRAEL; JORDAN (98%); IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); REFUGEES (73%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



468 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Environmental and Economic Health Go Together

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 18

 BODY:
A new state-by-state study suggests that governments need not sacrifice environmental quality for economic well being.
In fact, the report, released last week by the nonprofit Institute for Southern Studies, a social policy research and advocacy group, shows that nearly all of the states that ranked among the top dozen using the study's environmental criteria also ranked highest using its economic criteria. 
 Similarly, nearly all of those judged lowest on environmental standards were also at the bottom economically. Most of those states were in the South.
"At a policy level, the choice is really not jobs versus the environment," said Bob Hall, research director of the institute, based in Durham, N.C. "The states that do the most to protect their natural resources also wind up with the strongest economies and best jobs."
While some economists applauded the study's general view that environmental and economic health could be compatible, they said that the interaction between the two was too complicated to allow for simple testing. And not all of them agreed with the economic and environmental categories used.
The study found that 9 states were among the top 12 in both environmental and economic health. They were Vermont, Hawaii, New Hampshire, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Colorado, Oregon, Massachusetts and Maryland. The 10 states at the bottom in both categories were Louisiana, West Virginia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Texas, South Carolina, Indiana, Kentucky and Oklahoma.
The report used 20 economic indicators, including worker health and accident statistics, unemployment rates, job growth rates, income and poverty data, educational attainment and analyses of tax fairness.
The 20 environmental indicators included amounts of toxic products produced or discharged per capita, energy consumption, the ratio of pollution emissions to manufacturing jobs and the percentage of the state budget spent on the environment.
The study reflected what some states have already reported. In Oregon, for example, logging restrictions have not killed the timber industry, as was feared.
"The real choice is between policies that produce short-term gain for the few versus long-term strategies that improve the quality of life for the many," Mr. Hall said.
The report said that the South in particular had squandered natural resources in pursuit of jobs and development, only to end up with fewer high-paying jobs, higher poverty rates and, in many pockets, lowered economic prospects.
The South has long tried to attract business by offering many incentives and few restrictions. The strategy worked for a time, said Paul Templet, a political scientist at Louisiana State University and former Commissioner of the state's Department of Environmental Quality.
Louisiana had initial success, he said, "but then we found that personal income dropped, poverty rose, income disparity ratio rose, all as environmental indicators declined. We thought it would bring in jobs and prosperity, but it hasn't, and we are getting more and more unattractive as a place to do business."
But William Kucharski, the current Commissioner of Environmental Quality, said the state's last-place ranking in the study was a result of taking particular facts -- a high concentration of chemical plants and oil refineries and a low population -- and adding them up to paint a false picture.
"There is no question that we have a great deal of poverty," he said, "but that's more associated with the businesses we don't have than with the businesses we do have."
Officials in Minnesota, which was near the top in both categories, said the study vindicates aggressive environmental protection.
"We learned a simple fact earlier than most states, and that is that you can't trash the natural resource forever," said Chuck Williams, the Commissioner of the state's Pollution Control Agency.
Some economists warned that the study did not prove that tight environmental regulation attracted economic development. Dirty air and fouled waterways might repel potential businesses, but the things that combine to make a vibrant economy are much more complicated than the study suggests, argued Roger Dower, an economist with the World Resources Institute, an organization concerned with environmental and economic issues.
In addition, Paul Portney, an economist with Resources for the Future, a research group based in Washington, argued that each new dollar spent on environmental regulation was now producing less environmental benefit while adding more to the cost of doing business.
Fred Krupp, executive director of the Environmental Defense Fund, said the study could reduce the polarization between conservationists and industry. He cited Federal legislation on acid rain that gave industry flexibility in reducing pollution. The legislation saved some companies from having to close plants, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SOUTHERN STUDIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US) ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); POVERTY RATES (86%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); RANKINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); CONSUMPTION (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); STATISTICS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); AIR POLLUTION (63%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (62%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD BOB HALL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



469 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2742 words

HEADLINE: Families Look at Failure on Health Care and Lament Politics

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: IOWA CITY, Oct. 14

 BODY:
In the ruins of President Clinton's promise of affordable cradle-to-grave health care, five families in Middle America have found their hopes for changing the health care system transformed into contempt for a Washington that they say, cares not a whit about them.
"Why can't they just put their political parties aside and do something good for all of us?" said Debra O'Connor, 31, of Lisbon, Iowa, a factory worker and single parent with three young sons. 
 Clifford McLaughlin, a 42-year-old factory worker from East Moline, Ill., was blunter, and jaded. Why did the health care legislation fail? "Big business said 'no,' " he said. And Congress? "That's big business."
The New York Times had already interviewed most of the families in more optimistic times, first in May 1993 as the health care legislation and its attendant debate took shape and again in Sept. 1993, when the President unveiled his plan to the public. Now, in the aftermath of the plan's demise, their disappointment is tinged with unease over what a bout of cancer or a heart attack could do to their financial health.
The families represent a broad spectrum. They are young and old, working and not working, healthy and chronically sick, middle class and poor, richly insured and uninsured. One interviewed earlier, an impoverished single mother who was fighting cancer, could not be reached. A year ago she said she would be marrying a soldier and expected the Army to provide her coverage. Another single mother in ill-health and equally poor, Barbara Jo Matson, was interviewed in her place.
Residents of a flourishing stretch of cornbelt and industry in eastern Iowa and western Illinois that is home to the University of Iowa, most of these people are Democrats who, like the region in general, tend toward moderation and ticket-splitting.
The families fault Mr. Clinton for pushing a plan that seemed cumbersome, confused and flawed, threatening their ties to cherished doctors, for example. But they salute him for tackling an issue no previous President would touch, and found enough in his plan to lift their hopes that at last, growing old, falling ill or being injured need not drive them into poverty.
The culprits they are quickest to blame are Congressional Republicans and in particular the critic who popped up most often on their television screens, Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican minority leader of the Senate. "Mean, sarcastic," said Elma Patten, 60, of Cedar Rapids, whose long history of illness has reduced her family's savings to $5,000. "You know he's creating this havoc."
Some of these people have concluded that it pays to stay poor. Ms. Matson, 37, of Iowa City, a mother of three children, has disease-wracked lungs. She might still qualify for some jobs, but then the Government might make her pay for health care. So she relies on welfare and Medicaid, the health care program for the poor.
The families of Ms. O'Connor, and Mr. McLaughlin are protected by comprehensive health insurance plans that their unions have worked out with their employers. But for them, too, the high cost of care is a constant worry.
Ms. O'Connor fears that a layoff looms and her coverage will stop. Mr. McLaughlin and his wife, Valerie, are thrilled with the policy his employer currently provides, since it has covered the cost of treating their 10-year-old daughter's diseased eyes. But the President's plan promised health insurance for Mrs. McLaughlin's healthy, 23-year-old daughter from a previous marriage, who having fled welfare and Medicaid, has gone to work and has no coverage.
By any measure, William Coen, 80, and his wife Gertrude, 78, are sitting pretty. As Federal retirees, they have all the low-cost protection that members of Congress receive and their benefits have even improved in the last year. But they worry about other elderly men and women who are not as lucky and wonder whether Congress will ever agree to even patchwork repairs on the current system.
As the debate in Washington evolved, Mr. Coen said, "We became disgusted, and our friends got so disgusted, if the paper said anything about health care, they didn't even read it."
 
The McLaughlins
Doctor's Caring Spurs Support
 For Clifford and Valerie McLaughlin, who are both 42, this has been a largely trouble-free year in terms of health. But it has been a worrisome year in terms of health care coverage. They prize the freedom they have had to choose their doctors. So they were wary of the President's plan, which they thought would force them to use designated doctors.
Now that his plan has failed, they fear that their choices may be curbed by other means: that the continuing rise in health care costs will persuade Deere and Company, for whom Mr. McLaughlin works as a $45,000-a-year press operator, to restrict the roster of doctors covered by the health plan it negotiates with the union.
The McLaughlins believe their ability to shop around for the most appropriate medical care saved the eyesight of their 10-year-old daughter, Amber. After misdiagnoses, delayed treatment and one doctor's telling them to simply accept his prognosis that Amber would soon be blind, Mrs. McLaughlin found Imir Arbisser, an opthamologist. She and her husband say that he found the root of Amber's disease -- juvenile arthritis -- then removed a cataract and enlisted specialists to treat what he could not.
Dr. Arbisser also won their hearts. After an operation at the University of Iowa four years ago, Amber received a large bouquet in her room. "It had a teddy bear with it," Mrs. McLaughlin said. "It was from Dr. Arbisser."
Mr. McLaughlin added, "He's proved to me that his patients mean more to him than money."
Amber's eyesight is now stable, but her continuing care is costly. The Deere plan paid the $18,626.19 in bills for her six months of treatment, and the McLaughlins wonder how much longer Deere will foot such bills when most employers do not.
One family member is in such a bind. Mrs. McLaughlin's daughter by a previous marriage, Kristy, 23, is the single mother of a 4-year-old boy. She had been getting by on welfare, food stamps and Medicaid.
Then she went to school to become a practical nurse and took a job in a pediatrician's office. All her aid promptly stopped, and she receives no benefits.
"She feels like, 'I should have stayed the way I was,' " Mrs. McLaughlin said. "I'm not real happy Clinton hasn't helped these people who want to help themselves. But I don't know if it's his fault. Congress -- to me it's more their fault than Clinton's."
But she thinks that Washington might still come around. "I'm optimistic,' she said. "I think that at least they're going to make employers pay for at least part of it. That's what I'm hoping for."
 
The Matsons
Poverty Offers Health Coverage
 Barbara Jo Matson, 37, and the mother of children ages 17, 14 and 10, is an example of the same disjointedness in the nation's health services that leaves a Kristy McLaughlin uninsured: The poor and unemployed can obtain more and cheaper health care than the working poor.
Ms. Matson, a client of the Iowa City Free Medical Clinic, is certifiably poor. The stub of one of her welfare checks lists her resources as "$ 0000." A disabled and unemployed mother of young children, Ms. Matson receives housing, food and disability and family aid totaling $1,354 a month. Medicaid pays for the family's health care.
With the support of scholarships, child-care and other assistance, she graduated from the University of Iowa three years ago. She has worked in the past -- waiting on tables, playing a dulcimer in the streets for change, collecting cans for a nickel each after university football games. But she cannot hold a full-time job.
After a bad bout of pneumonia when she was 15, Ms. Matson was left with permanently damaged and deteriorating lungs. "I have about 60 percent scar tissue in my lungs and a condition similar to what people with cystic fibrosis live with," she said. "It can only get worse." She also has epilepsy.
On the kitchen table, she lays out a breathing machine that she uses four times a day and a dozen bottles of inhalers and pills -- antibiotics, a steroid, medicines to control seizures, control mucous and dilate bronchial passages, as well as pills to fight the side effects of the other pills. Medicaid pays for it all.
Her companion, Gary Baker, 37, is not well, either. He has back and shoulder injuries from heavy-lifting jobs. He has hepatitis C, which, if he does not take care of himself, could kill him; Ms. Matson, too, because the disease is sexually transmitted. "I have to use a condom," she said.
After watching the health care debate, Ms. Matson concluded, "It is a money game completely, 100 percent. There are diehard Republicans who believe everybody should pull themselves up by their own bootstraps. Just because we're not in wheelchairs does not mean we're not handicapped."
She said she has no hope for change and expects to continue relying on the welfare system and free clinics for her and her children's health care.
 
The Pattens
Amid Troubles, Anger at Politics
 Elma Patten, 60, and Leon Patten, 63, of Cedar Rapids do not look sick. He has the tight physique of a 30-year-old. She is heftier and matronly. She uses a home computer to bang out furious letters to lawmakers in Washington whom he watched whittling away the number of people to be covered under the health care plans that members of Congress introduced after the President offered his own.
In a letter in August to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Dole and her senators and members of Congress, Mrs. Patten wrote, "I wish I could have the same health care you have at the same price you pay." She added, "I do not, at this point in time, expect to ever vote for an incumbent again, except for President Clinton."
The Pattens have been robust enough lately to take daily, three-mile treks around a Cedar Rapids mall. But Mr. Patten cannot negotiate the mild slope of the street in front of their home. Smoking, which he stopped 19 years ago, and the foul air of the factories in which he worked as a machinist, gave him emphysema and put him out of work eight years ago with the use of 40 percent of his lungs.
Over the years, Mrs. Patten, a diabetic, has had a mastectomy, a hysterectomy, double-bypass surgery and wrist operations for work-related injuries. She had to stop working as a retail store clerk three years ago. In June, she checked into to the hospital with pneumonia.
Not until September, however, did she start losing her stride. Doctors found that her heart was stopping periodically for five-second stretches. That resulted in another trip to the hospital, this time for the installation of a pacemaker.
The Pattens feel that they have done most things right with their lives: saving, holding steady jobs, rearing four daughters. But neither worked for companies that provided pensions or retirement health plans.
Together, they receive $1,265 a month in Social Security disability aid. Mr. Patten also receives $580 a month through a previous employer's disability insurance plan, which will stop when he turns 65. The couple has $5,000 in savings.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Patten qualified for Medicare earlier than most people because they have been disabled for more than two years. But their pre-existing conditions and high insurance company premiums preclude access to policies that would cover any treatment that Medicare does not. They pay for their medicines, which currently cost about $2,000 a year. They paid $700 of the cost of her pneumonia treatment; they have not yet received bills for the pacemaker.
While they are angriest with Mr. Dole and the Republicans for the demise of health legislation, they fault the President, too.
"I think he's naive," Mrs. Patten said. "He came in saying he could do all these things and didn't need help."
As for Hillary Rodham Clinton, she "didn't put it together for people," Mrs. Patten said. "It was too complicated."
Mr. Patten added: "They tried to run the Government like Arkansas. It wasn't a good plan."
Still, like the McLaughlins, the Pattens say they have hope. "Something's got to happen," Mrs. Patten said. "I just think people in Washington have to get away from that petty stuff. That's not what our Government's supposed to be doing."
 
The Coens
Already Covered And Still Gaining
 William Coen, 80, Iowa City's retired postmaster, and his wife, Gertrude, 78, are very well off in terms of their health care, and this year the Government relieved them of their biggest lingering burden.
Under a change in the Federal Employees Health Benefit Programs, they no longer pay anything for prescription medicine -- a saving so far this year of $2,734. "All we have to do," Mr. Coen said, "is go to the pharmacy and pick up our prescription. It's all paid for."
Like 99 percent of the population age 65 and older, the Coens have Medicare. To cover the gap between Medicare's reimbursements to doctors and hospitals and the actual charges, they pay $101 a month for insurance. On an income of around $40,000, they get along fine in Iowa City.
Every year, they say, something seems to go awry with their health. Mrs. Coen is legally blind in her right eye. The vision in her left had so deteriorated by last spring, she said, "I couldn't read fine print without bifocals and a magnifying glass."
In June she had a cataract removed. The cataract grew back, so in September she returned to the hospital. The two procedures cost $3,850, all covered by insurance.
What the Coens worry about is the help they might eventually need. Mr. Coen's mother died indigent at the age of 93 after contracting Alzheimer's disease and losing her assets to the high cost of a nursing home. Some of their friends have also been stricken.
So they were unimpressed by President Clinton's proposal to phase in long-term health coverage well into the next century. "And I was wondering about the administration of it," Mr. Coen said, "whether it would be unwieldy."
But it was a worthy beginning, they agreed. They would have been happy to pay higher taxes or insurance premiums to help less fortunate friends at the local senior center, where Mr. Coen helps serve free meals. "It got too involved politically," he said.
Referring to President Clinton, Mrs. Coen said, "I don't think he could have done more than he did. Dole. I think he went in there, come hell or high water, he was going to kill that plan."
 
The O'Connors
Wholly Satisfied But Still Worried
 Debra O'Connor, 31, a single mother living in Lisbon, Iowa, quit a job managing a pizza parlor three years ago to take a lower paid job assembling communications gear at a factory of Rockwell International, a defense contractor. She lives in her parent's old brick farmhouse because she cannot find a place of her own on wages of $8.60 an hour.
But she took the job because it has relieved her of one enormous cost. Rockwell provides inexpensive health benefits that cover her and her three boys, ages 6, 8 and 10. The plan, which is subject to change when management and Ms. O'Connor's union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, negotiate a new contract next year, is an unqualified blessing.
Her cost is $7 a month that is taken out of her wages. She also pays $10 to visit any of the doctors on a long list of local doctors who have agreed to participate in Rockwell's coverage. She pays a maximum of $100 for a hospital stay, $25 for a visit to the emergency room, $3 for a generic drug prescription and $10 if the prescription specifies a brand name.
In June her 10-year-old son, Adam, broke his ankle sliding into first. "I was at the game," Ms. O'Connor said. "I took him to the emergency room at Mercy Hospital in Iowa City. They X-rayed it, examined it and wrapped it. The next day I took him to the orthopedic surgeon. They looked at the X-rays and put him in a cast. The total bill was $739.42, and I had the expense of $51.12."
But she said that business has slowed at the Rockwell plant, the result of cuts in military spending, and rumors of layoffs are rife. Lose the job and she loses her coverage, something the Clinton plan would have prevented.
"At least Clinton tried," Ms. O'Connor said. "These Congressmen and Senators don't have to worry about their health care. But I do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: IOWA CITY: Barbara Jo Matson and her companion, Gary Baker, left, live at the poverty level with her children, Ely and Emily, which means Medicaid covers them.; MOLINEILL.: Clifford and Valerie McLaughlin with their daughter, Amber, whose vision problems have led them to support the freedom to choose doctors.; CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA: Elma and Leon Patten have health problems and are upset about the political maneuvering that prevented a change in the health care system.; IOWA CITY: William and Gertrude Coen are well covered for health care, but they still worry about the future and are concerned about friends who are not as well off.; LISBON, IOWA: Debra O'Connor took a lower-paying job with a union-negotiated health plan to provide coverage for her sons, from left, Kyle, Zach and Adam. (Photographs by TODD BUCHANAN for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CANCER (87%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); HEART DISEASE (66%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



470 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Aid Big 3 in Cleaner-Car Research

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18

 BODY:
A year-old Government partnership with the Big Three auto makers has developed "a road map" for building a car that would go 80 miles on a gallon of gasoline with no loss in performance, safety or carrying capacity, Vice President Al Gore said today.
But smaller competitors in the race for high-technology clean cars are complaining that the three giants could squeeze them out of the effort. That is because the plan calls for the Government to coordinate its research and development spending by seven Federal agencies with the efforts of Ford, Chrysler and General Motors. Much of the research involves using electricity to power cars, a technology that the Big Three have opposed, at least for now. 
 Sheila Lynch, the director of the Northeast Alternative Vehicle Consortium, a Boston-based agency that makes research grants to producers of vehicles that pollute less than gasoline-powered cars, said it was "as if the Federal Government decided in the early 70's to develop personal computers and to give all the money to I.B.M., and I.B.M. said, we're not interested in PC's."
The Government spends about $300 million a year on research and development in the field, an amount roughly matched by the private sector. The effort, called the Clean Car Initiative when it was announced a year ago and recently renamed the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles, is to develop a hybrid vehicle, probably with electrically driven wheels, but the details of the rest of the system are not clear.
At a White House ceremony this morning, auto company executives laid out a list of possibilities, including fuel cells, flywheels, capacitors and other energy-storage devices to be used in a vehicle constructed with super-strength lightweight structural materials. They also described a schedule for winnowing the possibilities and building a prototype.
Some of the money goes directly to the Big Three auto makers; for example, each now has a program to develop a fuel cell, a device that makes electricity directly from petroleum or natural gas without combustion. Other grants have gone to auto industry suppliers, and some money is paid so that the Energy Department's national laboratories will carry out research of interest to the industry.
President Clinton, who attended the ceremony with Vice President Gore, said the super-car project was as important to the environment and American economic competitiveness "as anything else we could be working on." Top officials of Ford, Chrysler, G.M. and the United Auto Workers also spoke glowingly of the effort.
But the three auto makers, acting as the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, have filed suit in New York, Massachusetts and Maine to block those states from requiring electric cars. They argue that they do not know how to build a car that the public would want to buy. They are also trying to prevent the Federal Government from imposing California's strict emission standards on those states and nine others in the Northeast.
Ms. Lynch, who attended the ceremony, said the Government was mistaken in going to the Big Three for the effort, because they had demonstrated hostility to requirements for cleaner vehicles, and a strong interest in staying with current technology.
"Why are the three companies that are suing getting control of all the Federal funds?" Ms. Lynch said. "There are companies out there without this dual agenda."
Bill Van Amburg, a spokesman for Calstart, a private nonprofit group that is trying to develop an electric- vehicle industry in California, was also critical of the program. "All this money is tied up in one pot with the veto power of the Big Three," he said. "How do you get innovation that way?"
Some military contractors and other big companies that are not automobile manufacturers but would like to enter the auto business have complained to him, Mr. Van Amburg said, "that they can't seem to participate in this supposedly participatory Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles."
Auto industry executives defended the participation of the Big Three. William E. Hoglund, executive vice president of General Motors, said that cooperative work with the Government and other auto companies was "far more rational than legislating technology; legislating technology is very expensive."
And Dr. Jack Gibbons, the Presidential science adviser, said that efforts would be made to reach out to start-up companies with good ideas. "We're trying to keep the net cast widely," he said.
But the two sides are separated by a philosophical difference: though the larger companies say they are open to all sorts of ideas, they are looking for advanced technology for the long term; some smaller companies hope to refine existing technologies and put them on the road quickly.
Many of the start-up companies with vehicles now on the road are looking toward the 1996 model year. By then, New York, Massachusetts and California will require that 2 percent of the cars offered for sale within their borders be electrically powered.
"There is always going to be a scramble between the near- vs. the far-term investments," Dr. Gibbons said.
At the ceremony, Ford, G.M. and Chrysler each showed off a "concept vehicle," futuristic designs of various types. But an invitation to an electric pickup truck converted by a small Massachusetts manufacturer, Solectria, and equipped with a flywheel from United Technologies, of East Hartford, Conn., was withdrawn late the previous night. The pickup sat on a flatbed truck in Arlington, Va.
Anita Rajan, president of Solectria, said in a telephone interview that she feared companies like hers would be squeezed out.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, left, and Alexander J. Trotman, Ford chief executive; Thomas G. Denomme, Chrysler vice chairman, and William E. Hoglund, G.M. executive vice president, at a White House ceremony yesterday. (Reuters) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP ; NORTHEST ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE CONSORTIUM GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP ; NORTHEST ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE CONSORTIUM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; ELECTRIC VEHICLES ; FEDERAL AID (US); RESEARCH; AIR POLLUTION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); NATURAL GAS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TROTMAN, ALEXANDER J; DENOMME, THOMAS G; HOGLUND, WILLIAM E ; LYNCH, SHEILA AL GORE (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



471 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE GOVERNOR
The Perks and Pains of Incumbency;
For Cuomo, Is the Office an Albatross or an Advantage?

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Incumbency for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, particularly the kind of mega-incumbency that afflicts a politician after 12 years in office, is clearly the political albatross that Mr. Cuomo says it is. Just look at the polls.
But in a multitude of smaller ways, ranging from Mr. Cuomo's ability to cut ribbons to the mechanics of how he travels, incumbency has also provided significant benefits for the Cuomo campaign, his opponents charge. 
 Republican leaders, including Mr. Cuomo's opponent, State Senator George E. Pataki, contend that the Governor has taken improper advantage of those benefits. The New York Republican State Committee filed a lawsuit in state Supreme Court last Friday charging that Mr. Cuomo and members of his administration have violated the state Constitution by using government resources for campaign purposes.
Top aides to the Governor maintain that they are scrupulous about separating campaign work from the business of running the state. Anne W. Crowley, the Governor's press secretary, pointed out that administration officials use personal or campaign credit cards to charge telephone calls made from the Capitol to the Cuomo campaign headquarters in New York.
Challengers have often accused incumbents of misusing the advantage of their office during election years, and the law on the subject is vague. The Constitution prohibits the expenditure of state funds for any "private undertaking." But as the state's Commission on Government Integrity pointed out in 1989, "no New York law expressly regulates the use of public funds for campaign purposes."
That leaves the courts to decide a question that is inherently gray in this and any number of previous campaigns: at what point does the use of state resources become egregiously political when state government is, by nature, a political business?
"In the absence of a law that lays this out, it's going to be tough for a court to decide what's kosher and what isn't," said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer with the New York Public Interest Research Group. "In the end, a lot of this is going to be for the voters to decide."
That, of course, is what the Republicans had in mind when they filed their lawsuit. The court papers question Mr. Cuomo's use of state aircraft to travel to fund raisers and other political events, his use of the state budget division to analyze Mr. Pataki's plan, his decision to take 11 governmental aides to a campaign-season interview at The New York Times, and Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine's use of state letterhead to promote his speeches attacking Mr. Pataki's tax plan. It also objects to a June memorandum from the state Labor Commissioner, John F. Hudacs, asking subordinates to compile lists of the department's accomplishments.
Mr. Cuomo and his aides argue that each of the cases cited in the lawsuit involve state governance. "We're living up to the letter of the law, I'm sure," Mr. Cuomo said today.
A number of Cuomo administration officials have taken leaves of absence or vacation time to work for the campaign, and many do political work in their off hours. Some acknowledged that they make or take campaign-related phone calls during working hours but feel there is no conflict as long as they meet the requirement that state employees work 37.5 hours a week.
For instance, Andrew J. Zambelli, the Governor's chief of staff, also devises and analyzes the campaign's polls. He said he does so on his own time.
But other uses of state resources are, by their nature, difficult to characterize as purely governmental or purely political.
Is it political, for instance, when Mr. Cuomo uses state funds to send a letter on Sept. 15 to "business leaders" saying that he had signed legislation enacting new wage tax credits? Was it proper to use two state employees to ghost-write "The New York Idea," a book on Mr. Cuomo's philosophy and accomplishments that was published this year? Should state workers, rather than campaign officials, have compiled the reports on technology, crime, economic development and children's issues that have formed the basis of Mr. Cuomo's campaign platform?
Then there is the issue of Mr. Cuomo's campaign travels. Under his administration's guidelines, the Cuomo campaign is supposed to share in the cost of any election-year trip that includes a political event. But political events tend to be defined narrowly as rallies, fund-raisers and endorsement meetings, not trips to disburse grants (Mr. Cuomo's press office issued seven news releases on Monday, most of them announcing economic development grants and loans).
Mr. Zambelli said the definition of a political event would not include Mr. Cuomo's speech last week at the groundbreaking for a new minor league baseball stadium in Syracuse, when the Governor segued quickly from a paean to baseball to an attack on Mr. Pataki's tax cut proposal.
"In case you're tempted to believe people when they tell you they can do a $7 billion tax cut, because the revenues are going to be so rich that they'll throw off 7 billion bucks, then you have to not only re-elect me, you have to enthrone me, because it means I created an economy so powerful it's throwing off $7 billion extra," Mr. Cuomo said. "If that's true, why would you want to get rid of me? Anyway, no politics. Let's go back to baseball."
Mr. Zambelli said Mr. Cuomo's digression did not make the event a political one, at least for the purposes of reimbursement.
"The purpose of the trip was governmental," he said. "The fact that the Governor happens to say something about Pataki in the course of the trip doesn't change the basic function of the trip."
Mr. Zambelli added: "One can obviously call everything political in a political season. The reality is that these things happen in a non-political season as well. The reality is that it's intertwined. And it's often in the eye of the beholder."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); BUDGETS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) MARIO M CUOMO (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



472 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Safety Bubble Bursts for U.S. Students in Russia

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 18

 BODY:
It was not the sort of start to his new life as a college student in Russia that Charles Maymes had envisioned. But to the organizers of his student-exchange program, the American Embassy's recent briefing on rape, battery, assault, break-ins and confidence games was a fitting welcome -- and warning -- to Moscow 1994.
Whereas the oppressive oversight of the K.G.B. once insured the safety of foreign students here, Mr. Maymes and his 45 fellow American students are now like average Russians in their vulnerability to the criminality unleashed by the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 In an episode that underscored the potential for violence, a 21-year-old American exchange student, Anthony Riccio, was found dead last month outside his dormitory at the Russian State Humanities University. The police found part of a rope around his neck, and the Moscow prosecutor announced that his death was being investigated as a murder, although the possibility of suicide was left open.
But even if Mr. Riccio was murdered, American students here were far from panicked. His death was, they said, a random tragedy in a place known these days for its unpredictability.
"I was surprised, maybe even shocked," said Jonathan McPhee, a student working in an independent-study program sponsored by California State University at Sacramento. But "murders happen all the time in every city in the world," he added. "I personally didn't feel like this was going to spread to me."
Time was when American students in what was then the Soviet Union could get by just fine with a few tips from a cold war catechism of do's and don'ts: do follow your Intourist guide, do not sell jeans on the black market. Today, however, the ubiquitous tail could be a thug; the children playing outside could have something sinister in mind.
"Be alert for groups of young street children, who may quickly approach and assault you," the American Embassy warned in a press release on crimes reported against Americans from May to August 1994.
Mark Teeter, resident director for the American Collegiate Consortium, an exchange program that placed Mr. Riccio and 84 other Americans in 30 universities around Russia, put the situation this way:
"In some respects, what we are seeing today is almost the exact opposite of the situation in the mid- or late 80's. Back then, foreigners tended to enjoy a different sort of status. They walked around inside a bubble, because they knew the consequences for a Soviet if something happened to a foreigner."
Today that bubble has burst, exposing people like Jan Stinchcomb, 27, a resident adviser of the University of Texas's exchange program, to the underside of Russian life. Ms. Stinchcomb is now carrying a chemical spray and considering classes in self-defense.
Still, American students here say they are hard-pressed to equate the sensationalized Moscow of gangs and thugs with the city in which they live. At the Linguistics University dormitory, with 24-hour guards at the door and a reputation for security, students said the expression of fears for their safety were exaggerated.
"Things were nowhere near as bad as I've heard," said Logan Sanders, 21, a member of the Texas program. "If you're from New Orleans or Atlanta or D.C., every night you hear about multiple deaths and murders."
Mr. Sanders's roommate, Paul Wintle, sitting opposite him under a makeshift clothesline in their room, nodded in agreement. "Just because I'm a student and I'm an American doesn't mean I'm going to walk around in fear," he said. "Of course, people are concerned about crime here, and we all talk about it, but nobody is packing their bags."
In fact, some, like Mr. Maymes, had never dwelled on the issue at all. He is among the majority of American students here who live with Russian families in a year-old program begun by the American Council of Teachers of Russian.
For students like Mr. Maymes, with the close support of a Russian family, crime may be less a reason for fear than it is for students in dormitories. Until he attended the embassy briefing, Mr. Maymes said, "It seemed to me crime was sort of invisible here.
"But I sort of left this embassy thing thinking maybe I should be more careful."
In fact, official statistics point to little evidence of physical danger for the American students. Crimes against all foreigners in the first seven months of 1994 were a tiny fraction of those reported by Moscow's 10 million residents, and only 46 of the 956 crimes against foreigners involved Americans, almost all petty thefts, said Vladimir Zubkov, a spokesman for the Moscow police.
But statistics notwithstanding, most exchange programs have revamped their pre-departure orientation for students, with a heavy emphasis on safety. The Russian teachers' group, which this year placed 73 undergraduates at two institutes in Moscow and one in St. Petersburg, devotes up to half its orientation to safety, said Susan Slivkin, a program manager. Once in Russia, an adviser in the dormitory keeps track of the students.
By contrast, the American Collegiate Consortium, which sponsored Mr. Riccio's exchange and has been dispatching students to Russia since 1987, tries to avoid overprotecting students or restricting their exposure to the local culture.
"Ours is an immersion program," said Mr. Teeter, the resident director. "What we want to happen is for our students to have the same Russian or Kazakh experience as the Russians or Kazakhs. We could chaperone our student's social lives, institute rules against drinking."
In lieu of such controls, the consortium requires students to undergo several briefings before departure and then in Russia by advisers assigned to them, and finally, at the embassy.
For the families of some students, too, crime is low on the list of concerns. "My mother said not to breathe the air here," Mr. Wintle said. "She was much more concerned about the air pollution."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With rapid changes in Russia making American students more like the average Russian in their vulnerability to criminals, the students are getting warnings from their exchange organizations as well as the American Embassy on how to avoid trouble. Logan Sanders, left, and Paul Wintle, his roommate at a dormitory in Moscow, said the dangers were no worse than those in American cities. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXCHANGE LIFE INSURANCE CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXCHANGE BANK (58%); POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); POLICE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MURDER (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); DEATHS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); SUICIDE (69%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D CHARLES MAYMES (78%); ANTHONY RICCIO (63%); JAN STINCHCOMB (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



473 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut G.O.P. Nominee Defends His New Positions

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 18

 BODY:
At the start of his campaign for governor in January, John G. Rowland sounded almost benign about the state's new income tax.
"I'm not running on a statute or position of repealing the income tax," Mr. Rowland, a Republican, said on WFSB-TV in Hartford, stressing that he planned only to reduce it. 
 When asked about phasing it out over five years, he responded: "That's too far off right now. Right now, the focus is not the income tax."
Nine months later, with another candidate pledging to eliminate the tax, Mr. Rowland's focus has changed. Now, Mr. Rowland is crisscrossing the state promising to rid Connecticut of the income tax, which accounts for one-third of all state revenues.
"We are committed to repealing the income tax after five years," he said last month. "The main focus has got to be the income tax."
Mr. Rowland, who was nearly elected governor four years ago and is the front-runner in this race, calls the shift insignificant, saying he has refined his positions with time.
But his three opponents say it is one of several examples of how he is ruled by political expediency, noting his transformation to a pro-abortion-rights position just before the 1990 race and his switch this year from tough talk about laying off unionized state workers to saying he opposes such layoffs.
Whether Mr. Rowland can hold onto his lead in the polls, which has been shrinking in recent weeks, will depend a good deal on his ability to convince the electorate that such switches are his effort, as he says, to look for fresh ways to fight for the middle class. This and other shifts are minor, the Rowland people say, in the context of his strong positions on crime and limiting welfare and his longtime commitment to cutting taxes.
Until his 1990 loss, John Grosvenor Rowland enjoyed a rapid and uninterrupted rise in state politics. Born in Waterbury on May 24, 1957, into a well-known Republican family, his father and grandfather both served as that city's comptroller. Young John was captain of his high school wrestling team, president of his senior class and president of his college fraternity at Villanova University. In 1980, at age 23, he was elected to the state legislature. Four years later, he defeated a three-term incumbent to become the youngest member in Congress.
In three elections to Congress, he won by ever larger margins, running as a staunch conservative opposed to abortion, and in favor of tax cuts and a strong military. He became Connecticut's first member of the House Armed Services Committee in nearly 20 years years and was influential in protecting Connecticut contracts, like the Trident submarine.
Colleagues on both sides of the aisle liked him, appreciating his quick wit, and he broke ranks on occasion. He joined with one of the more liberal members of the House at the time, Claude Pepper, Democrat of Florida, to push for raising Medicare taxes to pay for long-term care for the elderly and the disabled.
It was not until 1990 that Mr. Rowland suffered a setback, when he left the House to run for governor.
With the state in the midst of a fiscal crisis, the time appeared to be ripe for the first Republican to be elected governor in Connecticut in 20 years. Instead, the moment was seized by Lowell P. Weicker Jr., a former Republican Senator who ran as an independent, garnering 41 percent of the vote to Mr. Rowland's 39 percent.
Now, Mr. Rowland is in a four-way race. It includes State Comptroller William E. Curry Jr., the Democrat; Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark, who is running as Mr. Weicker's successor, and Tom Scott, a leader of the anti-income tax movement and a Republican who has formed a conservative Independence Party.
Polls show Mr. Rowland ahead, with about 34 to 37 percent of the vote, the traditional Republican base. But over the last month, Mr. Curry has narrowed the gap to 6 percentage points in one poll and now has 28 percent, and it remains to be seen whether Mr. Rowland can expand his support beyond his 1990 level.
While Mr. Rowland has a $1.2 million fund-raising lead over Mr. Curry, opponents believe that he is vulnerable on certain character issues.
The state's Freedom of Information Commission is considering whether the Middlebury Police Department should be ordered to release documents detailing an argument between Mr. Rowland and his former wife, Deborah, to which police were called last April. The police last week provided a brief summary of a "verbal between husband and wife," with officers responding to a call from Mrs. Rowland.
But the police and the Rowlands have maintained that privacy rights prohibit the release of any additional documents.
"I don't think my private life, or my divorce, or my circumstances with my ex-wife are an issue in the campaign," Mr. Rowland said in an interview. The two were divorced this year.
There are also questions about financial matters.
Opponents have criticized him for 108 overdrafts from the House Bank, and in the last four years, Mr. Rowland was sued three times, accused of failing to pay personal debts. In one case, the Wirthlin Group, a political consulting company, filed a suit in December 1992 in New Britain Superior Court against Mr. Rowland and his 1990 campaign treasurer. According to court papers, the company was not paid for $23,760 of polling work conducted in 1990.
And while that case, as well as two others, was eventually settled with Mr. Rowland paying, Irving Shurberg, the lawyer for the Wirthlin Group and a Republican who supported Mr. Rowland in 1990, said: "This candidate's integrity is in question because of his lack of honesty in addressing these debts. I will not vote for him in this election."
Mr. Rowland says in response that he had numerous campaign debts, that it took time to raise money to pay them off and that ultimately the disputes were resolved.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Rowland appears more relaxed than in 1990.
"This time around I'm more confident, and frankly, the issues are more interesting to me," he said.
His speeches are peppered with tough talk about cracking down on "Club Med" prisons, passing a "two strikes, you're out" sentencing policy that would put two-time violent offenders away for life, and expanding the use of the death penalty.
At the same time, Mr. Rowland said he is working to appease people who found him to be too hard-edged in 1990. In the last election, he said, commercials promoting his intention to crack down on state employees left the impression that "I was a pretty mean guy."
Mr. Rowland had threatened to lay off state workers unless they agreed to pay cuts. In response, unions made an all-out effort to defeat him.
At a recent convention of the Connecticut State Employees Union Independent, Mr. Rowland said that in 1990 strategists had told him the way to be elected was by attacking state workers, and added, "I feel badly that I joined in that routine of being an employee basher."
While saying that he would bargain hard with them if elected, he promised that layoffs were not being considered. He said that over the last few years, he had learned that the true problem was excessive middle and top management.
But on this day, it was plain from the audience reaction that many did not trust him.
"This guy will say anything to get himself elected," said Dwight Johnson, a mechanic with the State Transportation Department.
Others accuse Mr. Rowland of political opportunism on the abortion issue. After opposing abortion throughout his career, Mr. Rowland publicly reversed himself five days before announcing his gubernatorial run in 1989 by voting for Federal financing for abortions for poor women who are victims of rape or incest, a measure he had opposed a year earlier.
Last week, Mr. Rowland said that the switch was "ancient history" and needed to be understood in the broader context of changes in the Republican Party.
He complained that the Democratic candidate, Mr. Curry, was not challenged by the press for changing from an opponent to a supporter of the death penalty. "The old story is if a Republican broadens his position, it's a flip-flop," he said. "When a liberal or a Democrat does it, it's growth."
He bristled at the suggestion that his current position, to repeal the income tax, differs substantially from his statements last January.
"At that time, that was my position," he said. "But what have I been doing since then, I've gotten the best economists I could find in the country. I've spent hundreds, no, thousands of hours on this."
Under Mr. Rowland's program, the tax would be gradually eliminated without increasing any other taxes. He said that the lost $2.6 billion in revenue would be made up "50-50" through spending cuts and increased revenues from other taxes because of the economic boom he expects to follow his first round of reductions.
His proposal details about $400 million in savings, but does not specify how he would cut the additional $900 million.
"What I did in a very conscious way was examine what we could do over a period of time," he said, "because everybody asked for it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rowland, Republican candidate for governor of Connecticut, planning campaign strategy in his Watertown office. He is crisscrossing the state, pledging to work for the repeal of its income tax. (Steve Miller for the New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; INCOME TAX; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); ABORTION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); WRESTLING (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; ROWLAND, JOHN G JOHN GROSVENOR ROWLAND (97%); WILLIAM E CURRY JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



474 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: P. J. McCarthy, 76, Cornell Statistician

 BODY:
Philip J. McCarthy, an expert in economic and social statistics who helped develop the more sophisticated polling and sampling techniques that came into use after World War II, died on Oct. 10 at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y., where he lived. He was 76 and also lived on Cushing's Island, Me.
The cause was pneumonia, a family member said. 
 A former chairman of the Statistics Department of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, he was among statisticians who de-emphasized the use of government reports of compiled data in favor of obtaining more representative information through polling and other methods.
He was one of the experts who revised the consumer price index in the 1950's and acted as consultants on refining data at such organizations as the National Center for Health Statistics, the Department of Justice and the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Dr. McCarthy joined Cornell in 1948. He continued his research and writing as professor emeritus after his retirement in 1988.
He received an undergraduate degree from Cornell in 1939 and a doctorate in mathematics from Princeton University in 1947.
His first wife, the former Mary Ann Aselin, died in 1967.
Among survivors are his wife, Jane A. L. McCarthy; a son, Michael, of Baltimore; three daughters, Nancy Valk of Baltimore, Rita Graves of Ithaca and Kathryn, of Boston; a stepson, Stephen Lisberger of San Francisco; three stepdaughters, Lin Lisberger of Gordon, Me., Jody Lisberger of Boston and Emily Vitale of Manhattan, and 12 grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); STATISTICS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PHILIP J PHILIP J MCCARTHY (92%); CORNELL STATISTICIAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



475 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Drop, Quieting a 3-Day Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities declined yesterday, indicating to some traders and investors that the recent three-day bond market rally had run out of steam.
Higher oil prices and speculation about the intentions of the Federal Reserve weighed down Treasury securities yesterday. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 17/32 , to 9524/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 7.87 percent, from 7.82 percent, its highest level since last Wednesday, when it was 7.89 percent. The rates of bills with shorter maturities were slightly higher, with three-month bills at 4.90 percent and six-month bills at 5.69 percent.
Crude oil prices rose yesterday on speculation that demand is rising. Rising oil prices are often considered a harbinger of inflation pressures. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for November delivery rose as much as 30 cents a barrel before closing up 16 cents, at $17.22 a barrel.
Adding to the market uncertainty caused by the jump in oil prices were comments made yesterday by Susan M. Phillips, a Federal Reserve governor, about the strong domestic economy. Her comments, which pushed Treasury prices lower early in the session, raised concerns that a rate increase by the Fed could come before November.
Ms. Phillips, addressing a bankers conference in Orlando, Fla., said the economy was growing at a surprisingly brisk pace, which some analysts interpreted as a stronger outlook than she usually gives publicly.
Many traders and dealers, however, still expect the Fed to raise short-term interest rates by 50 basis points after the Fed's policy-making committee meets on Nov. 15. And most agree that the market has already priced in such a rate increase. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.
On a day with little economic news scheduled, the market's rumor mill was working overtime. It was rumored that the Fed's vice chairman, Alan S. Blinder, had said that Fed policy was on hold, with different versions of the rumor maintaining that it was put on hold anywhere from December to indefinitely. But a Fed spokeswoman later denied that Mr. Blinder had made such a comment.
Amid speculation caused by the Blinder rumors, bond prices rose as much as 10/32 , pushing yields as low as 7.80 percent.
Late in the afternoon, additional price pressures hit the market when the Treasury unexpectedly increased the size of its regular weekly bill auction by $1.2 billion, to a total of $27.2 billion. The larger supply of bills could cause rates to rise to make them more attractive to investors, according to some market participants. Some participants even speculated that the Treasury was trying to avoid any large issues of cash management bills coinciding with next month's large quarterly refunding.
David Ader, a market strategist at Technical Data in Boston, a unit of Thomson Financial Services, concluded that over all, the market did nothing yesterday. "If you go back to last Thursday the market has not gone anywhere, price-wise," he said. "The market has been building volume at a higher price level since the friendly inflation numbers last week and is presently trying to confirm those levels, shrugging off potentially bad news."
In the municipal market, where prices remained stable amid demand for new issues, the largest deal yesterday was a $178 million financing by the San Francisco Airports Commission that was priced by Lehman Brothers in competitive bidding.
Yields ranged from 4.6 percent for a bond due in 1996 to 6.65 percent for a bond due in 2024. Because the bonds are insured by the Ambac Indemnity Corporation, they are rated triple-A. According to Bloomberg Fair Value, the bonds appear to be priced at levels equal to other similarly rated bonds.

GRAPHIC: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; INTEREST RATES; AUCTIONS BOND MARKETS (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); INFLATION (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN S BLINDER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



476 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Off Ahead of Data on Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Stock traders, pausing before the release of today's trade deficit figures, bid down the prices of stocks slightly yesterday, as measured by most leading indexes.
Blue-chip stocks, which rose on Monday, joined the overall market decline. On the New York Stock Exchange, 13 stocks fell for every 9 that rose. 
 Today's Government figures are expected to show a narrowing of the United States's trade gap with most other countries but a continuation of the huge trade deficit with Japan. The deficit has been an important factor in the dollar's slide on world currency markets; a falling dollar hurts stocks.
In a survey of economists by Bloomberg Business News, the consensus estimate was that the August trade deficit narrowed by 11 percent, to $9.8 billion. When the July deficit, reported last month, widened by 22 percent, to $11 billion, the dollar plunged, dragging the Dow Jones industrial average down by about 68 points.
Yesterday, the Dow fell 6.39 points, to 3,917.54, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 1.30 points, to 467.66. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 0.97 point, to 764.81.
The volume on the New York Stock Exchange was below normal, with 259.7 million shares changing hands, about 10 percent lower than this year's average of 287 million shares.
Among the notable stocks yesterday was the State Street Boston Corporation, which fell 39/16 , to 3211/16 , after reporting quarterly earnings that were in line with analysts' expectations.
By contrast, Apple Computer rose 1 1/2, to 41 1/4, after the company released higher fourth-quarter earnings on Monday. And Sun Microsystems rose 1 7/8, to 32 1/4, after its announcement on Monday of a doubling of first-quarter earnings.
But the dollar is significant because its value on currency markets will influence whether foreign investors will want to buy assets valued in dollars, like stocks and bonds. A weak dollar means a gain in a United States asset might be wiped out when converted into Japanese yen or German marks.
The Dow has risen 4.35 percent so far this year, for example, but fallen 8.81 percent in terms of yen and 9.81 percent in terms of German marks.
The crucial factors behind the weakness in the dollar are the United States-Japan trade deficit, which in July totaled $5.7 billion, and to a lesser extent, the deficit with Germany, which in July totaled $1.3 billion.
The demand by American consumers for Japanese goods has led to a strong demand for yen and a glut of unwanted dollars.
Since mid-1985, the dollar has lost about 60 percent of its value against the yen and about 50 percent of its value against the mark.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.71 point, to 257.25 yesterday, with advancing stocks lagging declining stocks by 891 to 1,291. The American Stock Exchange market-value index fell 2.04 points, to 456.72.
Of the Dow industrial average's 30 component stocks, 18 fell, led by Boeing, which lost3/4, to 43 3/8. Of the 500 stocks in the S.& P. 500, 275 fell, led by General Electric, which was down 1/2, to 49 7/8.
The most active stock, with 10 million shares traded, was Intel, which rose 1/16 , to 58 1/4, after its management told analysts that the decline in the company's profit margins would moderate.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STT (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) STATE STREET CORP (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



477 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING;
Aqueduct Opens, but Is It for Last Mile?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO 

 BODY:
Aqueduct Race Track opened its autumn season yesterday in bright sunshine but with dark memories of last year's ferocious weather and with gloomy questions about the future of winter racing in New York.
Is this the last mile for racing at Aqueduct? 
 Nobody knows, especially since the answer may depend on the outcome of next month's election for Governor. But a few things are clear: the costs of racing are higher, the political storms fiercer and the number of horses going to the races fewer and fewer.
The situation has been dramatized by the feud between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and executives of the New York Racing Association, which runs racing at Aqueduct in the fall and winter, at Belmont in the spring and summer and at Saratoga for one stylish five-week summertime festival. And the future is as bleak as the arctic weather that hammered Aqueduct last winter, canceling 15 racing days and raising new clamor for an end to deep-winter racing in New York and possibly even an end to Aqueduct as a race track.
Ten years ago, the 60-day fall season at Aqueduct drew 745,600 people who bet $164 million. Two years ago, the 60-day fall season drew 480,116 people who bet $129 million. Last fall, the 61-day season drew 459,265 people who bet $119 million. On opening day yesterday: 6,695.
Perhaps the most visible sign of the times is the shorter racing fields as the foal crop in the United States has plunged from a peak of 47,346 in 1986 to a low of 33,500 last year. And while the numbers for this year suggest that the plunge has leveled off, they also suggest that there will be 22 percent fewer 3-year-olds racing in 1997 than there were last year.
The national average for the number of horses in a race is close to nine. At Gulfstream Park in Florida last winter, they averaged 9.4 horses a race in rainy weather; this winter, they expect to average 10.
But in New York, my kingdom for a horse. At Aqueduct, the average race draws seven horses. Even at Saratoga last summer, rainier than usual, they averaged seven. On the day of the Breeders' Cup preview at Belmont Park two weeks ago, the most glamorous day of racing in New York this fall, the Beldame Stakes drew only four fillies and was staged as an exhibition with no betting.
"We have a guy," said Bruce Lombardi, the racing secretary for New York's tracks, "and he's in Canada right now hustling -- trying to hustle stables into spending the winter in New York. We're doing the same at the Meadowlands. At the end of this month, Terry Meyocks and I are going to Kentucky to hustle owners and trainers. A couple of years ago, we didn't have to do it.
"New York was once the winter haven for small stables and cheap horses. But the Federal tax act of 1986 changed everything. It took away the tax incentives for breeding and raising horses. The cost of living in New York keeps small owners away, too. Now, they keep a horse in New Jersey or Pennsylvania and ship him in for one race. And, of course, the severe weather last winter was the crusher."
Across the Hudson River in New Jersey, the weather was just as frosty, but the results were much more cheering. The Meadowlands track, extending its aggressive importing of simulcast races for the second year, raised its handle by 25 percent. And, on the night of the $500,000 Meadowlands Cup last Friday, it broke the track record by taking in more than $5 million in combined bets from all sources.
But in New York, confusion and snowstorms last winter ruined the simulcasting experiment that imported five races a day from Gulfstream Park and mixed them in with seven live races from Aqueduct. Fifteen racing programs were canceled and most others failed to generate the interest or revenue that had been expected. Some sort of simulcasting is likely in January, but the races from Florida will not be interspersed with those at Aqueduct.
Some racing people believe there is another reason for New York's decline in racing: a lack of business and political sense at the race tracks and a shortage of cordial treatment for visiting horsemen.
One breeder and horseman in Lexington in the heart of the Kentucky bluegrass, who did not wish to be named, said with some heat:
"I'm amazed at the direction they're taking in New York. It was once prominent and elegant in racing, but now it isn't. When people here in Kentucky had good horses, they'd keep half here and ship half to New York. They don't do that anymore except for big races.
"It's not the purses; it's the attitude. They don't have the horses or the horsemen in mind."
Douglas Donn, president of Gulfstream Park, said there was one main factor in attracting horses, and it wasn't attitude.
"Horses go where the money is," he said. "There are cases where people leave a track for personal reasons, but money will dictate. It will drive the top-tier horses.
"Most tracks are struggling. You're limited to a few places where you can run well with good conditions and high purses: Del Mar in California, Saratoga, Churchill and Gulfstream. Our handle has shot up the last two years by 12 percent on the track and 59 percent in combined betting, with simulcasts. Our total handle is over half a billion dollars. And our purses have gone up 25 percent, from $234,000 a day on the average to $292,000."
At the high end of the scale, Gulfstream and Churchill Downs in Kentucky have countered the decline in racing by aggressively pursuing the new economics of racing. Gulfstream races in sunshine in the winter, draws star horses from all over and exports their performances by television for simulcast betting. At Churchill Downs, where combined handle soared from $3 million a day to $4 million this year, one official said bluntly: "Rarely do you see a six-horse field at Churchill."
But at the sinking end of the scale, New York faces another winter with no clue to the future format. Aqueduct could be sold, Belmont could be winterized, racing could be reduced.
"It's all possible," said Lombardi. "Right now, I'm more concerned with filling our fields at Aqueduct this winter."
 
FINISH LINES
 The first stakes race of the meeting, the $75,000 Athenia, was won by Lady Affirmed, who has won five times and run in the money eight times in nine starts. The 3-year-old daughter of Affirmed, trained by ALLEN JERKENS and ridden by JORGE CHAVEZ, finished nearly two lengths in front of Irving's Girl, who had 1 1/2 lengths on Cox Orange. The winner ran the mile and an eighth in 1:483/5 on the turf and paid $7.60 for $2 to win.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Libertine, Joe Santos up, going round the first turn on way to victory in the first race as Aqueduct opened yesterday.; Before the third race, on an ideal afternoon for the start of autumn racing, some fans took time to make their selections. (pg. B13); Mike Smith rides Tara's Flame at the start of the paddock parade for the third race yesterday as fans hug the rail on opening day at Aqueduct. (pg. B18) (Photographs by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); ARCTIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AQUEDUCT RACE TRACK NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AQUEDUCT RACE TRACK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); ARCTIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (75%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



478 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 2; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Ah, Chicago: Build New Landmarks, Bash Old Ones

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 15

 BODY:
It has long been a given that the nation's first city of architecture cares about its past. With an array of buildings by Louis Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, Daniel Burnham and Mies van der Rohe unmatched by any city in the world, how could it not?
But the reality of historic preservation in Chicago is more complicated. For all the pride the city takes in its great buildings, when push comes to shove it has often done less to protect them than cities with less great architecture to flaunt. From 1929, when Frank Lloyd Wright's Midway Gardens was torn down after only 15 years, to 1972, when Mayor Richard Daley allowed Sullivan's Stock Exchange to be replaced by a banal office tower, Chicago hasn't hesitated to let its Midwestern pragmatism get the better of its artistic heritage. 
 Two events this month underscore Chicago's ambivalent attitude toward its architectural history. The first is the threatened demolition of yet another Chicago landmark, the Chicago Arts Club, the only surviving interior space designed by Mies van der Rohe, one of the 20th century's greatest architects and a man profoundly identified with postwar Chicago. It may be only an interior, but it is a remarkable interior, a suite of rooms that embodies Mies's concepts of flowing space with unusual elegance and panache. And it is the first important piece of postwar architecture in Chicago to be endangered.
The other event is the publication of the book "They All Fall Down," by Richard Cahan (Preservation Press), the story of Richard Nickel, a gifted architectural photographer with a passion for the work of Louis Sullivan. Nickel was killed in 1972 while photographing Sullivan's Stock Exchange during its demolition; he was buried in collapsing rubble. Nickel is a legendary figure in Chicago, but little known elsewhere. He was in every way a martyr to this city's architecture: he raised the consciousness of Chicagoans about it, he led campaigns to preserve it, he rescued pieces of its ornament when the causes were lost and then, in the end, he gave his life to it.
It's an eerie coincidence, the appearance of this book at the very moment that a battle to save another important piece of Chicago architecture is reaching a fever pitch. The Chicago Arts Club, finished in 1951, is a remnant of a magical moment in Chicago's history, when the city's cultural establishment, by turning to Mies to design the club's new quarters, announced its willingness to embrace the glass-and-steel modernism of the International Style. Chicago would become as well known for the architecture of Mies and his followers in the postwar years as it had been for the work of Wright and Sullivan in an earlier time. If the Arts Club was not literally the beginning of all this, it stands as an endearing symbol of Mies's movement into the status of Chicago icon.
Endearing, but perhaps not enduring. The arts club is situated in space it rents, not owns, on the second floor of an undistinguished eight-story building on a block a Chicago developer has assembled for a complex of stores and movie theaters. It's an odd location in which to find a tiny masterwork, but that's precisely what the arts club is, with its travertine foyer, elegant steel staircase and exceptionally striking mix of the minimalist Miesian esthetic and the traditional furniture the club had brought from its former home.
The building in which the club leases space is nothing as a work of architecture, but then again, neither is the garish structure proposed to take its place, a glitzy suburban mall dropped into the middle of Chicago. More to the point, the developer has been quoted in the Chicago papers as saying he doesn't plan to keep this new building for more than 20 years, since by then the economy should be strong enough so he can tear it down and put up a skyscraper.
The arts club to be lost for a building that is only supposed to be around for 20 years? That's a great testament to the notion of architecture as a force for continuity, as a defining presence in a city, as a resource protecting us from the relentless rush of time. To see some understanding of that, we have to turn back again to Richard Nickel and his remarkable and sad story.
The most important thing one learns from "They All Fall Down" is that Nickel was not a crazed zealot but simply an earnest man whose life took on greater meaning after he discovered the architecture of Louis Sullivan. Nickel saw in Sullivan's buildings -- his proud, solid structures, magnificently ornamented but always with a potent and blunt clarity to them -- the promise of a civilized world.
Then Nickel's idealism hit the stone wall called Chicago. It is an essential paradox of this city that for three-quarters of a century it could foster more architectural creativity than any other city in the United States, but that it did so by focusing so much on the new that it has never had a sense that the old could be sacred. Old things were for the walls of the Art Institute. The streets in Chicago have always belonged to the new.
That began to turn around in the 1960's, and one of the main reasons for that was Richard Nickel. He began his career as a photographer in the 1950's, when there was little understanding of what preserving great works of architecture could mean, in Chicago or any American city. Nickel became more and more excited about the works of Sullivan, and as he moved around the country to document them, he discovered how many were neglected or had even disappeared. (It's a sign of how little information was in the air about historic buildings in those days that Nickel once went all the way to New Orleans to see a Sullivan-designed train station, unaware that it had been demolished.)
His plan to photograph all of Sullivan's works became, all too often, a matter of photographing them under demolition. Like a political activist, he was gradually radicalized, and began to turn into a kind of architectural guerrilla, sneaking into buildings both to document them for posterity and to rescue pieces of the magnificent ornament for which Sullivan was best known. Preservation extremist though he was, he nonetheless goaded Chicago toward its architectural maturity, leading the campaign in 1961 to save Sullivan's Garrick Theater, the most strenuously fought landmarks battle in Chicago until Sullivan's Stock Exchange a decade later. When it was lost, Nickel received permission to dismantle much of its ornament.
Richard Cahan compares Nickel, not unreasonably, to Atget and to Lewis Hine, the celebrated photographer of the Empire State Building under construction. "Where Atget sensed the dying spirit of Parisian culture, Nickel perceived a dying idea," he writes. "Hine's cranes have been replaced by Nickel's bulldozers. Hine saw the Empire State as a reflection of those who were building it. Nickel saw the Garrick as a reflection of those who were destroying it."
Chicago's landmarks commission will hold a hearing on the possible designation of the Chicago Arts Club on Wednesday, and again the lines of battle are drawn in this city. There is talk of designating the entire block on which the arts club sits, which, paradoxically, includes a couple of buildings that are better pieces of architecture than the arts club building. Some sensible proposals have been floated to tear down the upper floors of the building and let the arts club remain, integrated into a redesigned version of the mall and theater complex, but no one seems inclined to take them seriously until it is clear which way the landmarks commission decides to vote.
It's hard to know what Nickel would have made of all this. It would never have occurred to him, surely, that Mies van der Rohe's architecture could be threatened so soon after the wars over Louis Sullivan's. Nickel despaired constantly, which is one of the reasons he comes off as so sympathetic a character in Mr. Cahan's book, but he did not want to be a martyr. He felt continually frustrated by the failure of his preservation campaigns, and was saddened by Chicago's inability to love the great art on its streets as much as he did. A man for whom loving architecture was part of loving life, he was empowered, in the end, by his own innocence.
Could any other American city have inspired a Richard Nickel? More to the point, would any other American city have needed one?

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Nickel, a preservationist, in 1960 atop the Republic Building, later demolished. (Courtesy of the Richard Nickel Committee) At right, Chicago Arts Club interior, designed by Mies van der Rohe. It, too, may be demolished. (Paul L. Meredith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THEY ALL FALL DOWN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO ARTS CLUB CHICAGO ARTS CLUB (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO ARTS CLUB CHICAGO ARTS CLUB (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE HISTORIC SITES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, LOUIS H (1856-1924); NICKEL, RICHARD; CAHAN, RICHARD; GOLDBERGER, PAUL; MIES VAN DER ROHE, LUDWIG (1886-1969) LOUIS W SULLIVAN (92%); DANIEL BURNHAM (73%); RICHARD M DALEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



479 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: The Plight of Dutch Tomatoes and Cheese

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, Oct. 18

 BODY:
The Dutch tomato is having a rotten time. For years, German consumers have been throwing Dutch export varieties back over the border, saying their flavor has the chemical tang of industrial farming.
Now, the squashed image of one of Holland's prime farm exports is at the center of a national debate. 
 Newspapers have devoted editorial columns to the problem of persuading increasingly choosy European consumers to pick Dutch rather than Mediterranean tomatoes, Dutch bacon over Danish and Dutch cheese instead of French.
"We used to set the norm in Europe as far as quality was concerned," said Steven Hartman, a researcher with the management consultants A. T. Kearney. "Today we have maintained the quality, but the norms have risen."
Mr. Hartman headed a Government-commissioned survey concluding that many Dutch farm products could face declining sales in Europe unless the farming industry adapts more quickly to changing tastes.
The tomato is financially important to the Netherlands and dear to its pride as a farming nation. Holland ranks second only to the United States in agricultural exports, with 8 percent of world trade.
"About 10 years ago, European consumers were all expected to converge in the criteria for their choices," Mr. Hartman said. "The opposite has happened."
Regional differences have widened. Consumers want more choice. Cheap air travel has introduced people to new flavors, so a Briton who has tasted a sun-ripened tomato may wince at the northern greenhouse type. Dutch products were getting a reputation as cheap and mid-ranking with little variety, the survey said.
The report drew criticism from the Dutch group of market gardeners, CBT, responsible for fruit and vegetable development and export. "It is a bad report," said Ine Kleemans, a CBT spokeswoman. "They talk about 'one Dutch tomato.' We have developed a whole range."
More than one job in 10 is in the agricultural sector, which generates about a tenth of the gross national product and accounts for nearly a third of all Dutch exports. Dutch products still dominate many European agricultural trade flows, having built up strength in the largest and most sophisticated greenhouse production system in the world.
But Dutch farm exports to Europe lagged behind overall European export growth between 1987 and 1992. Slower demand was a factor. An end to protectionism hit some segments, but over all the survey found that the Dutch are changing too slowly.
The tomato is part of the picture. Cucumbers have competition from Greece. The cabbage lettuce has been quashed by iceberg lettuces from Spain and France. Dutch cheese is "strongly focused on Gouda and Edam and scarcely represented in the growth segments," the consultants said. Rivals in Denmark and France developed soft cheeses. Dutch pork has a bad reputation, they said, partly because of diseases and scandals that raised concerns about how the animals are treated.
Mr. Hartman said that much of the problem may be in perceptions and that essentially it is a battle between industry and tradition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); DENMARK (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (72%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS; EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); DENMARK (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (72%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TOMATOES; CHEESE; MEAT FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CHEESE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); GREENHOUSE & PROTECTED CROPS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); 

PERSON: STEVEN HARTMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



480 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Peace Across the Jordan

 BODY:
This week's draft peace treaty between Israel and Jordan is much more than just another incremental advance on the Jewish state's least dangerous frontier. It may lack the drama of Anwar el-Sadat's path-breaking 1977 initiative, or last year's embrace by Israel of its former archenemy, Yasir Arafat, or the hoped-for breakthrough with Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad. But Israel's new peace with King Hussein is enormously significant.
Most of the credit belongs to Israel's Nobel laureate duo of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, along with Jordan's agile and experienced King. Still, the Clinton Administration played a supportive role, encouraging both countries and now standing behind their achievements. The invitation to President Clinton to take part in next week's formal signing ceremony in the Mideast is warranted. 
 Substantively, peace with Jordan promises to be warm and broad, unlike the many years of "cold peace" with Egypt, or the so far chilly bargaining with Syria. Israeli and Jordanian leaders actually appear to enjoy each other's company and seem likely to meet regularly in Amman and Jerusalem. Israel's agreement to divert substantial amounts of water and help build new dams will deliver a quick peace dividend to Jordanian civilians. Potentially sensitive questions of borders, sovereignty and land use were resolved by compromise, a lesson that could some day be applied to the Golan Heights. Politically, the agreement marks a new multifaceted phase of peace diplomacy. An outbreak of Hamas terrorism or a lack of progress with Syria can now be countered by an advance with Jordan. This helps Prime Minister Rabin maintain an overall momentum, and an Israeli consensus, for peace.
The various negotiating fronts are now both competitive and complementary. Peace with Jordan puts new pressure on Syria. Yet Jordan's cautious King would not have dared to move this far without some signal from Damascus that it, too, is ready for peace. King Hussein is also freer to act now that he has fully overcome his diplomatic blunder of opposing the U.S.-led military coalition against Iraq three years ago. The King underscored this point by condemning Baghdad's moves in the latest Kuwait crisis.
Symbolically, peace with Jordan means that Israel, once isolated, now has achieved security along most of its borders. At the same time, the economic isolation imposed by the Arab boycott is also beginning to break down. Only Syria and its Lebanese client still remain outside the formal peace framework, and even they may not remain outside very much longer.
The most encouraging development is that peace agreements that recently would have seemed extraordinary now seem almost routine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (66%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; JORDAN; JORDAN (95%); ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (66%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); HAMAS (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (70%); TERRORISM (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SHIMON PERES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



481 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Promises and Deficits

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
With tax revenues off, New York City now faces an estimated $1.4 billion budget deficit. That figure, from Comptroller Alan Hevesi, is $400 million more than had been expected, and comes in the wake of $1 billion in spending cuts already made by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.
The Mayor seems perpetually to be cutting the budget, like a harried woodsman slashing his way through an endless forest. 
 "If we solve this $1.4 billion problem, next year we start off with a $2.3 billion deficit," said Mr. Hevesi, "and $3 billion the year after that."
Into this atmosphere comes State Senator George Pataki, a candidate for governor and protege of fiscal wizard Alfonse D'Amato, with an ominous proposal to cut state income taxes by $5.6 billion over four years. People who care about New York City are aghast at the thought.
Felix Rohatyn, former chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, believes that Mayor Giuliani has done "extremely well dealing with the city's budget problems." But city and state officials have been trying to work out a long-term solution, a way of correcting the structural problems that result in huge municipal deficits year after year.
"This kind of effort is very difficult to conceive and structure and negotiate," said Mr. Rohatyn. "It is likely to be made quite impossible if we have a proposal to cut the state income tax by a dramatic amount."
Mr. Rohatyn said a tax cut of the magnitude proposed by Mr. Pataki inevitably would result in significant reductions in state aid to the city. He said it would "doom" the effort to solve the structural problems in the city's budget and would "create some type of budgetary crisis."
It would also be bad for the state. Mr. Rohatyn said: "I remember when the city ran out of credit in the summer of '75. Even though by the winter of '75 we had at least patched up a three-year plan that involved some Federal assistance, in the spring of '76 the state was almost incapable of doing its spring borrowing because people were so concerned about the potential impact of a city bankruptcy on the credit of the state. Now we're not talking bankruptcy here, but we're talking serious problems."
Mr. Hevesi said that based on recent economic growth rates he would expect Mr. Pataki's tax cut to add $4.4 billion to the city's total deficit over the next four years. He said, "That would mean, for example, that we would lose $1.2 billion in school aid if the formula remained the same."
The state, said Mr. Hevesi, could be expected to take a hit of $12.9 billion over four years if Mr. Pataki's tax cuts were enacted.
"Those are big numbers," said Mr. Hevesi. "Really huge."
City Council Speaker Peter Vallone insisted that the complaints from New York City officials were not simply the anguished cries of Democrats fearful of losing the Governor's seat to a Republican. "This is the survival of the city we're talking about," he said. "If you're going to cut the personal income tax, you're going to have to make it up with real estate taxes and sales tax increases. Those are the only other broad-based taxes."
Mr. Pataki's candidacy has thus far been greeted by a devastating silence from the office of the city's Republican Mayor. Giuliani administration officials are concerned not only by the proposed tax cut, but also by Mr. Pataki's apparent reluctance to lift the burden of Medicaid from the city's shoulders, by his refusal to acknowledge that the city does not get its fair share of state school aid and by other Pataki positions that have been perceived as less than friendly toward the city.
In addition, Mayor Giuliani has a very good relationship with Ralph Marino, leader of the Republican majority in the State Senate. But Mr. D'Amato (whose relationship to Mr. Pataki is that of Geppetto to Pinocchio) has been feuding with Mr. Marino and has suggested that his days as majority leader are numbered. Mr. D'Amato has derided Mr. Marino as a "pompous majority leader who can't get out of his own way."
Mr. Pataki is hungry for Mayor Giuliani's endorsement. The Mayor has said he will make his choice based on what is best for the city. As Mr. Giuliani is not a man who is easily bullied, Mr. Pataki and his boorish mentor can only wait and hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); GOVERNORS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



482 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Attacking the Republican 'Contract With America'

 BODY:
CANDIDATE -- Representative Jolene Unsoeld, in a tough re-election race in Washington State, is one of many Democrats around the country broadcasting advertisements that attack the Republican "contract with America."
 
PRODUCER -- Fenn King Murphy Communications
 

ON THE SCREEN -- In slow-motion, the Republican challenger, State Senator Linda Smith, walks up to a table to sign the contract. She is highlighted, but in the background are clearly visible row after row of Republicans in suits -- a seeming tableau of the Washington establishment. The ad then shows headlines about the dangers of the Reagan Administration's economic policies superimposed over still pictures of women, children, elderly people and workers. Among the headlines: "Reagan's Ax to Cut Social Security."
 
SCRIPT -- "You're looking at Congressional candidate Linda Smith, taking the lead, signing a contract with the national Republican leadership. What's the deal she's agreeing to? More tax breaks for the wealthy, paid for by devastating cuts in Medicare. Or, increasing the deficit again. It's a contract to revive the failed 1980's.
"You remember -- trickle down economics, exploding deficits, slashing Social Security. That's what Linda Smith just signed us up for again. But why would we ever want to go back?
 
ACCURACY -- Democrats assert that the "contract with America," which promises a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget, an array of tax cuts and an increase in military spending, will inevitably mean cuts in entitlement programs like Medicare, which make up more than half of the Federal budget. Republicans reject that charge, and Ms. Smith's campaign chairman, Bill Kinkade, says the candidate "has pledged never to cut Social Security or Medicare."
But many budget experts have long argued that achieving substantial, long-term deficit reduction is impossible without some pain. Warren Rudman, the former Republican Senator from New Hampshire and a founder of the Concord Coalition, the bipartisan group devoted to reducing the deficit, said, "You cannot get deficit reduction of any substantial nature without a huge tax increase, or significant means testing of all entitlement programs, including Medicare."
 
SCORECARD -- This commercial presents a non-incumbent, non-Washington politician as a tool of Washington elites. It also tries to galvanize voters who historically have voted Democratic; the fear of cuts in Social Security and Medicare is one of the most potent fears in American politics. The risk in such ads, some analysts suggest, is they may not reach beyond the Democratic core voter.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture yesterday with a summary of a campaign advertisement for Representative Jolene Unsoeld of Washington State was published in error. It showed an advertisement for Representative George Hockbrueckner of New York, one of many Democratic campaigns around the country that attack the Republican "Contract With America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (68%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AGING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994



483 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE INCUMBENT;
Clinton Aids Cuomo in New York As Whitman Visits to Help Pataki

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

 BODY:
President Clinton and a sprinkling of senior aides swept into New York City yesterday to join Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in a fight for their mutual political futures, helping to raise $2.5 million to keep the Governor's job -- and the state's electoral votes -- in Democratic hands for 1996.
It was Mr. Clinton's fourth political appearance of the year with Mr. Cuomo, the third at a fund-raiser, and he has now helped the Governor raise nearly $4 million for his re-election, a total rivaled only by his help for Kathleen Brown, the Democratic gubernatorial nominee in the biggest state, California. 
 In an afternoon conference on the state's future and at a glittering evening gala adorned with celebrities from Madonna to Norman Mailer, Mr. Clinton praised the old political adversary who nominated him for the Presidency two years ago, reminding the dinner guests of the Supreme Court nomination Mr. Cuomo had forsaken to try for a fourth term in Albany.
"He is a national treasure, but he really is New York's treasure," Mr. Clinton told a packed ballroom at the Sheraton New York. "I kind of promised myself I wasn't going to mention this, but I'm going to. Every one of you know that he could have had another job, with longer tenure. Every one of you know that he stayed here because he loves you, he loves that neighborhood he grew up in in Queens.
"He cannot imagine walking away from this fight until we have had a chance to do every last thing we can to give every kid in this state a chance at a better future," the President added. "You take care of it and make sure he's re-elected."
But even as Mr. Clinton and the President were entertained by the likes of Rita Moreno and Marvin Hamlisch, just down 53d Street, at the New York Hilton, Mr. Cuomo's Republican opponent, State Senator George E. Pataki, held his own fund-raiser with New Jersey's new Republican Governor, Christine Todd Whitman, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, as if to suggest Mr. Pataki represented the future. [Page B10].
For his part, Mr. Cuomo recalled his impoverished roots in South Jamaica, Queens, then said young people there now do not have the chances or support he did, and worried that "we have to do a little bit more."
"We haven't begun to fight," he vowed.
In fact, the day was one long, sometimes poignant reminder of how the worm has turned for Mr. Cuomo -- whose approval ratings now lag Mr. Clinton's in the state by 10 percentage points, 45 to 55 -- and of how thoroughly the two men's old roles have been reversed.
In a new campaign memoir with Mary Matalin, Mr. Clinton's political strategist, James Carville, recalls how completely Mr. Cuomo's potential Presidential plans consumed the Clinton staff in the fall of 1991. Mr. Carville likens the endless speculations to those that once dominated Carville family discussions of a nephew named Jo Jo, who had cancer but recovered.
"Mario Cuomo was the Jo Jo factor," Mr. Carville writes. "For a while there, each decision depended on what New York's Governor Cuomo was going to do He was just kind of looming."
In a different way, Mr. Cuomo still is.
"Clearly, re-electing Mario Cuomo is a top priority for the party," one Democratic party official in Washington said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "He is at the top of our list. No matter how you do the numbers, Democrats don't win the White House without New York in the 'w' column, so there are big implications for '96, as well as '94."
Two years ago, Mr. Cuomo found much to criticize in Mr. Clinton's style, saxophone, sunglasses and tactics, before eventually nominating him, but yesterday he said: "Today, we march behind President Bill Clinton as he steers this nation away from its worst instincts and toward its strongest and best instincts."
That Mr. Clinton himself needs Mr. Cuomo to keep a Democratic beachhead in New York is also a twist on old acrimonies. After all, it was Mr. Clinton who had to apologize to Mr. Cuomo in 1992 after a tape of a conversation with Gennifer Flowers surfaced in which Mr. Clinton appeared to reflect on Mr. Cuomo's ancestry to say he was mean, and seconded Ms. Flowers's assertion that Mr. Cuomo might have Mafia connections by answering, "Well, he acts like one."
Yesterday, both men were all smiles, and Mr. Clinton doled out a bit of good news for the Governor, announcing a waiver from Federal welfare rules that will let New York proceed with experiments intended to provide new incentives for work and job training.
The two men also joked about their mutual admiration for the Governor's eldest son, Andrew, who is now an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and so for the first time is not playing a day-to-day role in a Cuomo campaign. Gubernatorial aides said he had played a major role, however, in organizing yesterday's event, the Governor's Leadership Conference on Building the Future, which was planned and financed at state expense and included panel discussions -- listed as "concurrent interactive sessions" -- on topics from crime to welfare. It featured various Cabinet and sub-Cabinet officers, including Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich and Robert E. Rubin, the head of the President's National Economic Council.
As Mr. Rubin started the conference yesterday morning, he mistakenly addressed Mr. Cuomo as "Mr. President," before catching himself to peals of laughter.
"Mr. Governor, I'm used to speaking to the President," he said. "I think this President's great, but I think the Governor wouldn't have been a bad one, either. But that's a different issue."
Mr. Rubin also quickly showed how what was billed as a conference on government affairs had inescapable political overtones as he made a not-so-veiled reference to Mr. Pataki's proposed tax cuts.
"If a candidate proposed a major tax cut, for example," without explaining in concrete detail how it would be financed, he said, "that is not an honest and responsible discussion of a major fiscal initiative."
Mr. Cuomo acknowledged that the conference would be scoured for its political overtones, "and there's no point in being cute about that, we might just as well address it." Then he went on to sound a scrappy, if somewhat elegaic, note about what his legacy as public official and politician might be.
"Maybe someone will notice that one time, in an important race in a great state, they said, 'Let's take time out to be serious and substantive,' " Mr. Cuomo said. "Not a whole lot. Because you don't want to consume all the time that's normally devoted to silliness. But a little bit."
In another move to tweak the Governor, the Republican State Committee filed suit yesterday to block efforts by the Democratic National Committee to transfer $669,000 to the state Democratic Party. The suit continues a court battle begun in August, in which the Republicans won an initial round in court, only to have the Democrats contend that the transfer violated technical rules and could quickly be corrected, and the money accepted.
But the Republicans contend that a new committee formed by the Democrats to take the money still violates the state's arcane election laws, and a hearing is scheduled for Tuesday.
 
 
In Their Own Words
 GOV. MARIO M. CUOMO
 In introducing President Clinton yesterday afternoon at what was billed as a Governor's leadership conference oneverything from crime to welfare to the economy, Mr. Cuomo noted that his son Andrew, an assistant secretary of Housing and Urban Development, had slipped him a note advising him not to speak too long.
 "That's all I can think of as I race through this litany. Wait until he sees my will."
 PRESIDENT CLINTON
 Upon being introduced, the President gently tweaked the Governor.
 "When Andrew Cuomo, who as you know is a Presidential appointee, wrote his father a note and said, '10 minutes, don't be too long,' and then the Governor came up and embarrassed his son by telling you that, I wrote a note on the note. I said, j'Clinton's Eighth Law: Blood is thicker than water but the paycheck is thicker than blood.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton announced a waiver of Federal welfare rules yesterday, with the intention of helping New York. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the President at the Sheraton New York, where a fund-raiser was held. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HILTON (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FUNDRAISING (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); MADONNA (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



484 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 18.50 on Strong Earnings News

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Gaining a little after prices flattened in recent sessions, the stock market closed broadly higher yesterday in heavy trading after strong earnings reports continued to surprise Wall Street.
Stock prices received a lift after the Government reported that the United States trade deficit narrowed in August. But the report also showed a widening gap with Japan, and the dollar, already weak, slid further. The bond market also fell slightly. The weakness in the dollar and bonds limited the gains for stocks. Only 11 issues rose for every 10 that declined. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 18.50 points, to 3,936.04, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 rose 2.62 points, to 470.28. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 5.81 points, to 770.62.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was above normal, with 319.3 million shares changing hands, about 11 percent above this year's average of 287 million shares.
Quarterly earnings reports, which are being released throughout the month, are important because of what they say about a company's outlook. As much as half of the value of a typical stock, economists calculate, reflects the earnings and dividends to be paid over the next five years.
Among the notable stocks yesterday was the AMR Corporation, the holding company for American Airlines, whose stock rose 1 3/4, to 53 3/4, after it reported that its third-quarter profit rose more than 70 percent, beating Wall Street estimates.
Motorola Inc., which reported strong earnings last week, closed at 56 1/8, up 1 5/8, or close to its 52-week high on Aug. 26 of 56 1/4. Johnson & Johnson did establish a 52-week high when it reached 54 7/8 in intraday trading before closing at 54 1/2, up 1 3/8. The company reported a 16 percent rise in quarterly net profit.
Gensia Inc., on the other hand, fell sharply for a third consecutive day, losing 11/16 , to 45/16 . The stock traded on Friday at 10 3/8, but on Monday the company disclosed that its most promising drug, Protara, a heart-attack treatment, had failed to pass clinical trials and was found to be no more effective than a placebo.
The Government trade figures released yesterday showed a narrowing of the nation's trade gap with other countries, the difference between what the United States imports and what it exports. The deficit with Japan, however, widened. The overall trade deficit narrowed 12.9 percent in August, to $9.74 billion.
The outlook on inflation, interest rates and the level of corporate earnings are three factors that move markets. Inflation has been moderate all year, and earnings reports continue to be strong, despite higher borrowing costs brought about by Federal Reserve moves to raise short-term interest rates.
Only the Fed's interest-rate policy remains open to question, as recent economic data remain as ambivalent as ever -- and thus an uncertain indicator of the central bank's intentions.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.07 points, to 258.32, with advancing stocks outnumbering declining issues by 1,137 to 1,033. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 1.54 point to 458.26.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 17 rose, led by Aluminum Company of America, up 1 7/8 to 88 3/8. Of the 500 component stocks that make up the S.& P. 500, 284 rose, led by Johnson & Johnson, Motorola, and General Electric, which gained 1/2 to 50 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (66%); JNJ (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (67%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMR CORP (67%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (66%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (65%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



485 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Flooded Texas Area Gets Some Relief After 4 Days

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HUMBLE, Tex., Oct. 19

 BODY:
The sun came out over southeastern Texas for a time today, bringing a measure of relief from the four days of miserable rain and flooding that killed at least nine people and drove thousands of people from their homes. But many rivers, bayous and creeks remained at record levels, and the authorities warned that even a small amount of rain could cause new devastation. 
 "The threat of more rain is still in the area," said Gene Hafele, a meteorologist with the Houston area office of the National Weather Service. "We are not expecting torrential downpours, but any rain can cause some more hardship."
Late this afternoon, gray skies had returned and there were sprinkles of rain in some areas.
Houston, virtually paralyzed on Tuesday with some neighborhoods under eight feet of water or more, returned to some semblance of normal today as much floodwater receded, though public schools and some businesses remained closed.
Here in Humble, about 30 miles northeast of Houston, many of the 165 families at an emergency Red Cross Shelter at the local high school had to evacuate their homes because of considerable flooding from the overflow of a Houston reservoir. Today they were trying to assess the damage, but they could not get to their homes.
"Everyone is amazed at that thing they see up in the sky," said Royaletha Carter, disaster specialist for the Red Cross at the shelter, referring to the sun. "A lot of them thought they'd never see it again."
But even as many people in the region were making plans for rebuilding and discussing relief with Federal disaster officials, some experts suggested today that yet again, the wreckage from flooding had pointed up the folly of letting people build in areas where houses are subject to regular flooding.
Robert W. Gilmer, an economist with the Houston branch of the Federal Reserve Bank in Dallas, said much of the recovery effort will actually subsidize hazardous situations that will bring on future problems. "They're going to get Government assistance and Government loans to live in places that are dangerous," he said. "We have subsidized flood insurance to live down by the river bank. While they are very pretty places, you wonder why the Government subsidizes this."
In fairness, the rainfall and subsequent flooding was a record-shattering event in many places, and considered unlikely to be repeated for decades or more. And many people whose homes were destroyed suggested today that there was nothing foolish about choosing to rebuild in the same spot.
"We've lived there for 21 years with no problems," said Tannie Shannon of nearby Conroe, whose picture appeared in newspapers around the nation today, showing him and his wife in chest-deep floodwater as they carried their 11-month-old granddaughter and family dog to safety. "We've raised a family there. It's a nice place to live. This is an unusual situation."
Or, as Toni Beasley of Atascocita, a partly flooded section of Humble, put it: "If it's once every hundred years, you can cope with something like that."
But in other inhabited parts of southeast Texas, flooding is virtually routine. In Liberty County, the Trinity River has unleashed major flood damage on riverfront homes five times in the last four years. And Judge Dempsie Henley, the county's chief executive, said there was no question in his mind that people should not be living in many low-lying areas.
But he said his repeated attempts in recent years to negotiate a Federal or state buyout of existing homes along the riverfront had been rebuffed. His proposal is to turn the area into a wilderness park. "It might flood but there would be no human suffering," he said.
"People thought they would be cheated, they wouldn't get enough, it would be a big government deal," Mr. Henley said. "I was pushing for it but not everybody wanted to sell out. There was a lot of misunderstanding about it. Since I'm not running for re-election, I can push it."
The official flood-related death toll in Texas stood at nine today, with at least six other people missing and presumed drowned. Bob Mann, a spokesman for the Texas Emergency Management Division, said there would be no official damage estimates for at least another 24 hours.
At least 11,000 people were forced from their homes and the Red Cross set up 53 evacuation centers.
Other people insisted on staying in their homes even as the water rose to several feet or more.
Jennilee Brewer, a 22-year-old donut bakery worker who celebrated her third anniversary with her husband, Greg, in the shelter here in Humble, said her grandmother had remained in her home in hard-hit New Caney, north of here, even though the water had risen into the second floor of the house.
"She wants to stay with her land," said Mrs. Brewer, whose own one-story home, next door, was submerged. "A lot of people out there are like that. They want to go down with their land and their homes."
Flooding danger was reported north, east and west of Houston, on the Brazos, Colorado, Guadalupe and Lavaca Rivers. Many ranchers were urged to move their cattle to higher ground. "If you've ever tried to move cattle by boat, it's not the easiest thing to do," said Judge Henley.
With Election Day less than three weeks away, politicians have been out in force, surveying the damage and, not coincidentally, appearing on television news reports. "If you're going to have a flood, I'm sure the month before an election is an ideal time to have it," said Mr. Gilmer at the Federal Reserve.
Gov. Ann W. Richards toured flooded areas in an Army helicopter on Tuesday and then held a news conference at the Houston airport.
Her opponent, George W. Bush, toured a flooded Houston subdivision in a boat piloted by a Republican County Commissioner, Steve Radack, and helped evacuate a teen-ager from her home.
Both candidates said they wanted to show compassion for victims of the flood and, in Ms. Richards case, to shower all available state aid on the area. But the Governor suggested that Mr. Bush was trying to transform the floods into a political event and professed shock when reporters asked her about his appearance in the area.
"He's in a boat," she said in an awestruck tone. "Are you serious?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four days of flooding have forced thousands of people from homes in southeast Texas. Vicky Odom took a rest on Wednesday from packing the belongings of a friend in Liberty, which had to be evacuated. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; RAIN; FLOODS FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RIVERS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); FAMILY (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); METEOROLOGY (73%); FLOOD INSURANCE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); DOGS (67%); BANK BRANCHES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (61%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



486 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Balkans: Shifting Stance

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, Oct. 19

 BODY:
Maneuvering again to use Serbia as the unlikely instrument of its Balkan diplomacy, the Clinton Administration is now pressing the Serbian President to grant diplomatic recognition to Bosnia and Herzegovina and to Croatia.
In exchange for such recognition, intended to further isolate Bosnian and Croatian Serbs long armed and supported by Serbia and its President, Slobodan Milosevic, the United States would be prepared to accept a further easing of trade sanctions against Serbia, Western officials said today. 
 "The highest thing on our agenda now is securing Serbian recognition of Bosnia and Croatia," one official said. "It looked like a nonstarter a couple of weeks ago, but it may in fact be possible, because Mr. Milosevic's blockade of the Bosnian Serbs already amounts to de facto recognition of the Bosnian border."
After financing their campaign of aggression for more than two years, Mr. Milosevic officially cut off all political and economic links to the Bosnian Serbs in August. His main hope was to win relief from international sanctions imposed against Serbia in retaliation for its war role.
Nonetheless, recognition of Bosnia and Croatia within their current international borders would amount to an enormous step -- one some officials close to Mr. Milosevic believe is impossible even now.
Angered by the way the breakup of Yugoslavia marooned ethnic Serbs in countries they did not wish to join, Mr. Milosevic has long dismissed the current Croatian and Bosnian borders as mere administrative lines drawn by Tito, the former Yugoslav ruler, and unjustly recognized by the United Nations. Many have seen his long support for the Bosnian and Croatian Serbs as a drive to create a "Greater Serbia."
On the other hand, Mr. Milosevic's decision to cut off the Bosnian Serbs suggests that he is a man capable of violent policy swerves in pursuit of his own hold on power.
"Mr. Milosevic now represents our best chance, short of fighting this war either directly or by proxy," the Western official said. "Recognition is a step he can take unilaterally to bring the next stage of easing of sanctions. It would open the door for greater relief."
In meetings in the United States last month, the Bosnian Prime Minister, Haris Silajdzic, said he pressed President Clinton to secure Serbian recognition of Bosnia before any further easing of sanctions on Serbia was considered. Apparently, the message had considerable effect.
The need to find some new political momentum in the quest for peace has become pressing over the past three months as an American-backed peace plan to end the 30-month war has sat on the table, rejected by the Bosnian Serbs and unlikely ever to be accepted.
For the United States, the Milosevic card looks like the only viable option. The problem is that European Governments would now like to adjust the peace proposal to make it more attractive to the Serbs.
To the Clinton Administration, such a step would amount to rewarding the Bosnian Serbs' stubbornness. American officials are insisting that this was a take-it-or-leave-it plan, offering 51 percent of Bosnia to the Muslim-led Government and 49 percent to the Serbs.
The extent of the trans-Atlantic differences emerged this week in an unusually blunt article in Le Figaro by the French Foreign Minister, Alain Juppe. Noting that the Muslim-Croat federation in Bosnia has the right to form a confederation with Croatia, Mr. Juppe said the Bosnian Serbs should now be explicitly granted the right to form a confederation with Serbia.
A United States official close to the Bosnian negotiations said the Clinton Administration considered the French ideas to be premature.
The problem for the Clinton Administration is twofold. The first is that the Bosnian Government has made it clear that any adjustment of the peace proposal -- like adding the constitutional right of the Serbs to enter a confederation -- would lead to a withdrawal of its acceptance.
The second is one of image: A Serbian confederation that includes almost 50 percent of Bosnia would come very close to the formation of a "Greater Serbia" and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina as little more than a fig leaf masking the dismemberment of the country.
That outcome may be inevitable, but it is still not attractive to a President who declared as a Democratic candidate that Serbian aggression could not be tolerated.
But in the absence of any real military pressure on the Serbs, or any likelihood of such pressure emerging, there seems to be limited usefulness in leaving the peace plan as it is. Moreover, Britain, Russia and, to a lesser extent, Germany, all see some value in Mr. Juppe's ideas.
Thus tensions exist within the "contact group" that drafted the peace proposal, made up of the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Russia.

GRAPHIC: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing location of Belgrade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



487 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
 
The United States' trade deficit with Japan swelled 2.4 percent in August. The report sent the dollar falling to near a record low against the yen. But the trade deficit with the rest of the world narrowed sharply on a surge in exports. [Page D1.]
 
The former chief executive of B.C.C.I. was imprisoned for more than eight years. Bank creditors agreed to accept $1.8 billion in compensation from Abu Dhabi, the bank's largest owner. [D2.]
 
Companies
 
A meeting between executives of MCA and its parent, Matsushita, left open whether Matsushita might sell MCA to end its deteriorating relationship with the American unit's management. [D1.] 

Barney is on the downturn in the roller coaster world of children's merchandising. Barney merchandise sales have tumbled, and the plush purple-and-green dinosaur may be overexposed. [D1.]
 
A U.S. trustee recommended that Weil, Gotshal & Manges be removed from the Leslie Fay bankruptcy case. [D1.]
 
First Financial will reduce its bid for Western Union's money-transfer business by $300 million and assume full responsibility for Western Union's pension obligations. [D4.]
 
Borden agreed to sell two salty snack foods businesses. [D4.]
 
U.S. Robotics, a leading maker of computer modems, will acquire Megahertz Holding, a smaller rival, in a $213 million deal. [D4.]
 
Digital Equipment showed signs of improvement, despite reporting another big quarterly loss. [D5.]
 
Compaq Computer said quarterly profit rose 88 percent. [D5.]
 
Telephone companies reported mixed earnings results. [D5.]
 
McDonnell Douglas, Northrop Grumman, and General Dynamics posted higher earnings for the third quarter. [D5.]
 
The New York Times Company said earnings surged in the third quarter, reversing a loss in the quarter a year earlier. [D21.]
 
NBC assailed a revised application filed by SF Broadcasting, a partner of Fox, to purchase a Wisconsin television station, [D21.]
 
Farrar, Straus & Giroux will soon be sold. [D21.]
 
The Economy
 
A new report by Rep. John D. Dingell describes inadequacies of state insurance regulation and criticizes regulators for failing to prevent illegal actions by insurance companies. [D2.]
 
Bank recovery spells trouble for savings and loans, which will continue to pay higher charges to rebuild their depleted insurance fund while bank premiums to the F.D.I.C. will drop. [D6.]
 
Markets
 
Stocks advanced broadly, lifted by a number of strong earnings reports. The Dow industrials gained 18.50 points. [D8.]
 
The dollar tumbled against the yen and the British pound. [D18.]
 
Copper prices rose sharply. Coffee prices also climbed. [D18.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities fell after the trade deficit report raised new concerns about an accelerating economy. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Dealers who make Nasdaq markets are being investigated by the Justice Department. The investigation appears to be focusing on suspicion of price-fixing in what investors are charged when they buy and sell stocks. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
 
Washington seems to have passed the buck on reducing air pollution, so some want the Government to dump the responsibility on auto makers while giving them flexibility to meet tougher emission standards. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Affiliation helped a Hispanic-owned agency remain independent. The sharing of clients, but not agency ownership, put Ornelas & Associates of Dallas on its feet. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%); WU (NYSE) (55%); GD (NYSE) (54%); NOC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (56%); WESTERN UNION CO (55%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (54%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (54%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INSURANCE (87%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WIRE TRANSFERS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COFFEE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); PRICE FIXING (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); COPPER MARKETS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



488 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Haiti and U.S. Sign Pact to Stabilize Price of Gas

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 19

 BODY:
With gasoline prices shifting nervously from a street price of about $37.50 a gallon on Tuesday to one-fifth that sum today, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide signed a $15 million agreement with the United States Agency for International Development this morning that is intended to bring gas back to the pumps, stability to the market and a river of revenue to the state as it struggles to pay for everything from back salaries to light bulbs.
But on the fourth day after the international trade embargo on Haiti was lifted, many people here were still paying black-market prices for low-grade gasoline filtered through handkerchiefs, women's blouses and smudgy rags while they talked with resignation about last-minute gouging and the slow pace at which life is stumbling back to normal. 
 A tanker delivering a long-awaited supply of fuel finally arrived this evening, hauling 150,000 barrels of gasoline, kerosene and diesel fuel, enough to supply the city for three weeks and ending a wild final ride of price hikes and dips that ended up angering buyers and sellers alike.
President Aristide took some of the shine off the tanker's welcome, however, by signaling some uneasiness with the new Government-fixed gas price, $3 a gallon, announced by the Department of Commerce last week. The President indicated that it might be too costly for most Haitians to bear in the long term.
His comments, made at a news conference here this morning, lifted the curtain to a complicated drama that has been unfolding here for the last several weeks. Negotiators for the Aristide Government and the American aid agency have struggled to come up with a formula that will not only relieve the immediate crisis but set reasonable standards for the country's longterm growth.
By nearly doubling the price of fuel from the subsidized costs before the embargo, it is believed that the Government can bring Haiti into line with other Caribbean nations and generate a reliable tax base for years to come. And it could do so at a time when high Government prices would actually seem like a relief after years of superinflated prices on the black market.
But the increase in gas prices is a risky political maneuver even for a popular President. And though the new price marks a dramatic drop from black market costs, Haitians have been quick to register shock at the official rate.
Mark L. Schneider, the assistant administrator for the American aid agency's Latin America and Caribbean bureau, dismissed those concerns today, saying the price was both necessary and economically sound. "It will restart the economy and it will restart the Government," he said. "It was the most efficient answer we could find."
Today, several vendors said they did not much mind losing their one source of income. Since the gasoline market was so volatile over the weekend, dropping to $7.50 a gallon last Friday but then soaring to a high of nearly $37.50 late on Tuesday before tumbling again today, some vendors said they ended up selling their gas at a loss.
In a place called Kuwait City, which is actually a series of gasoline drums attended by poor vendors wielding plastic jugs and tin funnels, Jean Getton, a 52-year-old mother of six, sold off the last of her supplies at prices about half of what she paid for them the day before. Somewhere, she said, she knew someone had made an extravagant profit from the wild shifts in the market. But then she shrugged: "It was not me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; GASOLINE; EMBARGOES; BLACK MARKETS; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



489 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Ups Atom Stakes

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19

 BODY:
In its rush to strike a nuclear agreement with North Korea, President Clinton is gambling that the promise of $4 billion in energy aid can turn what he has labeled "a rogue state" into a responsible member of the global community.
The agreement, announced by President Clinton on Tuesday, reflects the Administration's conviction that offering the Communist Government in Pyongyang a way out of its economic difficulties will induce it to give up its nuclear ambitions and stop threatening neighboring South Korea with its million-member army. 
 The complicated accord also means that, for the moment at least, those Administration officials who prefer to engage enemies have won out over those who want to isolate them. But the strategy represents a major leap of faith.
For more than a year, Washington's policy was based on the assumption that the leaders in Pyongyang were Stalinist totalitarians so untrustworthy and unpredictable that their behavior had to be punished, not rewarded.
When North Korea violated its international commitments by refusing to allow inspections of all its nuclear plants, the United States said it would seek new international sanctions against Pyongyang.
That put Washington in a diplomatic cul-de-sac. Faced with a threat by China to veto any Security Council sanctions, and a warning by North Korea that it would regard such a move as an act of war, the Clinton Administration decided to negotiate.
In doing so, officials were counting on Kim Jong Il, North Korea's new leader, to open the country to foreign trade and to follow a less isolationist foreign policy than his father, Kim Il Sung.
No matter that the younger Mr. Kim has been described by some Administration officials as a a terrorist who masterminded bombings in 1983 and 1987; for the moment, the view of Mr. Kim as a leader capable of becoming a statesman has prevailed.
Beneath the celebration of this week's victory, however, there is widespread apprehension both inside and outside the Administration.
Although he ultimately endorsed Mr. Clinton's decision, Deputy Secretary of Defense John M. Deutch objected to what he regarded as inadequate controls over North Korea's access to spent fuel rods from the new light-water reactors it would receive. He further complained that North Korea would be able to keep its spent nuclear fuel rods for too long.
In praising the accord on Tuesday, even Robert L. Gallucci, the chief American negotiator, suggested that the younger Mr. Kim was a man who could not yet be trusted. "Maybe it will produce trust, but it's not based on trust," Mr. Gallucci said of the agreement.
But many foreign policy experts feel that the Administration has embarked on a high-risk course that has often failed in the past. These experts feel the Administration has made concessions that would allow North Korea to resume weapons production quickly and set a dangerous precedent for other countries intent on making nuclear weapons.
The accord with North Korea was immediately attacked by Republicans who described it as a capitulation to dictators.
"It is always possible to get an agreement when you give enough away," the Senate Republican Leader, Bob Dole, said in a statement.
Even those who praise the agreement do not believe that North Korea is poised to change the nature of its Government or abandon its hostile intentions.
"The agreement cuts the heart out of their ability to produce nuclear weapons and that is the most serious and the most immediate problem," said Leslie Gelb, president of the Council on Foreign Relations. "But it doesn't mean it will stop them or that they all of a sudden become good guys."
The agreement also creates a major contradiction in the Administration's approach to curbing the spread of nuclear technology.
The Administration has pressured both Moscow and Beijing not to sell light-water nuclear reactors for energy-producing purposes to Iran, arguing that the Government in Teheran should not be given access to any nuclear technology.
But how can Administration officials now look their Russian and Chinese counterparts in the eye and argue that Iran should not be allowed to buy what North Korea is being given without cost? And how can Iran be expected to continue to adhere to the rules of the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty when North Korea, which has violated those rules and will be allowed to do so for years, is being rewarded?
As one Pentagon official put it, "Life isn't fair."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (51%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (65%); TERRORISM (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); KIM JONG IL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



490 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Transit Workers File Suit

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Six workers who said they were laid off after asking for lighter duty because of pregnancies sued the New York City Transit Authority yesterday. They were joined in the lawsuit by two pregnant women who said they fear losing their jobs. All are train operators or conductors.
The suit alleges that the women who were laid off were unable to collect unemployment insurance because the transit agency told the State Unemployment Division that they had gone on voluntary maternity leaves. 
 A transit spokesman, Bob Slovak, said no employee is allowed to remain on light duty for longer than 14 days, whether pregnant or disabled by any other condition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA) STATE UNEMPLOYMENT DIV (64%); NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA) NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; SUBWAYS; FAMILY LEAVES; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); DISMISSALS (88%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (88%); TRAINS (88%); MATERNITY LEAVE (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



491 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE WELFARE SYSTEM;
Way Out Front on a Hot-Button Issue

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis., Oct. 12

 BODY:
Gov. Tommy G. Thompson strode into the dining room of the Governor's Mansion and plunged, with equal zeal, into his breakfast ham and the welfare record that has made the two-term Republican the envy of many politicians.
He called his eight-year attack on the welfare system "gutsy." He said his reducing benefits had made liberals feel as if "their hearts had been cut out." He even called the blizzard of anti-welfare campaign advertising now blanketing the country a tribute to his own bellwether instincts. 
 "All of the Republican candidates, and a good portion of the Democratic candidates, are copying Tommy Thompson," he said.
If the assessment was immodest, it was not altogether errant. In this election season, virtually every candidate -- from the liberal standard-bearer, Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, to a conservative scion, George W. Bush of Texas -- is claiming to be a stern-minded welfare reformer.
The tough talk on welfare comes from millionaire Republicans seeking Senate seats, including Michael Huffington in California, Mitt Romney in Massachusetts and Bill Frist in Tennessee. But it also comes from middle-class Democrats, both white (like Representative Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, running for the Senate) and black (like Representative Alan Wheat of Missouri, another Senate candidate).
"It's this kind of mantra that everyone repeats," said Ben Sheffner, an analyst for the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. "You say, 'We've got to crack down on welfare and make people go to work.' "
Perhaps no other politician has embraced the issue so effectively as Mr. Thompson, who has backed his tough talk with a significant reduction in Wisconsin's welfare rolls. Last year he went even further, signing legislation to abolish the current welfare system altogether by 1999 and replace it with a new, although as yet unspecified, program.
In a season of rage against incumbents, Mr. Thompson seems virtually assured of becoming Wisconsin's first three-term Governor, and he says his welfare record is a major reason. "It's a fantastic campaign issue," he said.
The 1994 campaigns are increasing the pressure on Congress to overhaul the system next year.
President Clinton has proposed a measure that would place recipients in a work program after they have received aid for two years. That proposal is far stricter than anything advanced by Mr. Clinton's Republican predecessors, but most Republicans are now calling it tepid. Some want to abolish assistance to young mothers altogether, whether they work or not. Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House minority whip, included such a provision in his "Contract With America," a policy pledge signed by more than 300 Republican Congressional candidates.
After deferring action on welfare to debate health care in the waning days of this year's session, Congress will be under particular pressure to act. "Those who opposed us on welfare reform are now coming around to it, as a need to further their re-election," said Mr. McCurdy, the leader of a center-right coalition of House Democrats that had urged the party's leadership to pass a welfare bill this year. "We'll be in a better position to move on it next year."
A television advertisement for Mr. McCurdy's Senate campaign gives a feel for the season's tenor, more Merle Haggard than the Kennedy School of Government. Standing before an oil refinery in a hardscrabble Oklahoma town, Mr. McCurdy recalls that his parents taught him "to stand my ground and fight," which is "why I'm fighting to change welfare."
The screen then flashes a welfare check that repeatedly crumbles as a deep-voiced announcer booms "no check" for those who refuse jobs or training, "no check" for having more children, "no check" to those who lack United States citizenship.
Most other candidates are making vague appeals to values. An advertisement for Representative Bob Carr, a Michigan Democrat running for the Senate, cites the state of the welfare system, along with lying and cheating, as evidence that "the moral fabric of our society is coming apart." Mr. Carr's televised solution is little more than an aphorism: "Give people a helping hand, but not a handout."
Although Mr. Thompson has clearly profited politically from denouncing welfare in Wisconsin, the lessons of his leadership remain unclear.
He ran in 1986 on a pledge to cut benefits and followed through with an immediate 6 percent statewide reduction. After years of freezes, the reduction is now about 30 percent in inflation-adjusted terms, the largest decline in the nation.
Mr. Thompson has also repeatedly won Federal approval for experimental programs like Learnfare, which reduces benefits to families whose children fail to attend school. Another experimental program reduces benefits to some newcomers to the state.
Mr. Thompson says the numbers vindicate his programs. Wisconsin caseloads have dropped 23 percent since he took office, a period in which the national figure has risen 30 percent, and they have declined in each of the state's 72 counties.
But his critics have derided him as Tinkering Tommy, a genius at garnering big headlines for minor changes in the system. They say the welfare rolls have declined in part because the benefit reductions have left fewer people eligible and in part because the state's prospering economy has made jobs available to the poor. Those were also the conclusions reached last year in a study by researchers at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.
"The welfare rolls' going down has had absolutely nothing to do with his experiments," said Mr. Thompson's Democratic opponent, State Senator Charles J. Chvala, who calls the Governor's approach "mean-spirited." He notes, for instance, that while caseloads have declined, child poverty in the state has risen.
Mr. Chvala acknowledges, however, that the Governor's lead of about 40 points in the polls is due in part to the welfare issue. "It's something that's a political advantage for him, no doubt about it," the challenger said.
If, as Mr. Thompson insists, Wisconsin holds the clue to the future, the welfare debate may increasingly resemble a game of chicken. In part as a dare, Democrats in the Legislature, angered by his claims of boldness, last year pushed through the bill that would abolish the system by 1999.
Speaking confidentially, some say they expected Mr. Thompson to opt for an embarrassing veto rather than face the burden of designing an altogether new system. But the Governor signed the measure into law, and has been crowing about it ever since.
"It was like serving me up a filet mignon," he said, "when I was supposed to only get a cheese sandwich."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Candidates everywhere are talking tough on welfare, as exemplified by advertisements from the campaigns of Dave McCurdy (top) and Edward M. Kennedy.; Few politicians have invoked the anti-welfare message so effectively as Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, shown here with Reggie White of the Green Bay Packers on Tuesday as a state agency announced a new program of low-interest loans to home buyers in the inner cities. (Chris Corsmeier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (93%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (93%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; THOMPSON, TOMMY (GOV) TOMMY THOMPSON (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); MITT ROMNEY (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



492 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Removal of Weil, Gotshal Sought in Leslie Fay Case

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
In a stinging rebuke of one of the country's richest and most prestigious law firms, a Federal official recommended yesterday that Weil, Gotshal & Manges be removed from the Leslie Fay bankruptcy case and be forced to forfeit part of the $5.3 million in fees it has billed to date.
In a motion filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan yesterday, Arthur J. Gonzalez, the United States Trustee responsible for supervising the bankruptcy of the Leslie Fay Companies, said Weil, Gotshal's relationship to members of the Leslie Fay board constituted an "actual conflict of interest." In addition, Mr. Gonzalez said, the firm had failed to disclose those relationships to the court. 
 Both are grounds for disqualification under current bankruptcy law, the motion said, adding that "the court should impose an economic sanction that will preserve the integrity of -- and the public's confidence in -- the bankruptcy system."
Mr. Gonzalez did not specify the amount of the penalty but he recommended that it represent both the fees charged by Weil, Gotshal for representing an audit committee at Leslie Fay and the costs of a report on the firm's behavior prepared by an independent examiner last year. A lawyer familiar with the case estimated that the combined amount was about $2 million.
The motion was submitted just prior to a deadline set by Bankruptcy Judge Tina L. Brozman, who is presiding over the Leslie Fay case. Weil, Gotshal must respond by Nov. 4. The judge will then likely rule on the motion at a hearing scheduled for Nov. 28.
The recommendation adds weight to the report by Charles A. Stillman, the court-appointed examiner. That report, completed earlier this year, found fault with the firm's conduct in the Leslie Fay case, recommending that it remain on the job but forfeit a part of its future fees as punishment.
Judge Brozman may accept the trustee's recommendation, reject it or choose an alternative. "It's very unusual to have a law firm disqualified in a case, but it's not unheard of," said Elizabeth Warren, a professor of bankruptcy law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Regardless of how the judge rules, the recommendation is an acute embarrassment for Weil, Gotshal. The firm was the fourth-richest law firm in the country last year with gross revenue of $318 million and profits per partner of $745,000, according to The American Lawyer magazine. The firm dominates the bankruptcy bar and has made its reputation handling celebrated bankruptcy cases, including those of R. H. Macy & Company, Drexel Burnham Lambert, and Eastern Airlines. In recent years, the firm has been criticized by other bankruptcy lawyers for supposedly skirting the blurry edge of bankruptcy-court ethics.
The firm released a statement late yesterday saying that it would contest the motion, which it called "totally without merit." The firm "is committed above all to pursuing the interests of its clients while adhering to the highest standards of ethical conduct," the statement said.
Prof. Warren said that while a settlement might yet be negotiated between the law firm and the United States Trustee concerning the amount of fees Weil, Gotshal could be forced to forfeit, the question of disqualification could not really be compromised.
"In disqualification, it's either all or nothing," she said. "The trustee is now taking a position. He's going to have a hard time backing off that."
Indeed, in his motion, Mr. Gonzalez went far beyond the recommendations of Mr. Stillman, whose report came after some Leslie Fay creditors raised the issue of conflicts.
Mr. Gonzalez argued that Weil, Gotshal's representation of the board's audit committee that was investigating charges of fraud at Leslie Fay had resulted in an "actual harm" to the company because committee members were also senior executives at Odyssey Partners and Bear, Stearns & Company, two major Weil, Gotshal clients. That theoretically gave Weil, Gotshal an incentive to act contrary to the interests of Leslie Fay.
Since the issue of conflicts was raised about Weil, Gotshal, many original creditors have sold their interests in Leslie Fay to so-called vulture investors. The new group of creditors have shown little interest in pursuing sanctions against the firm, which is active in other cases involving the same new investors and their lawyers. Thus, the United States Trustee, a division of the Department of Justice charged with overseeing Federal bankruptcy courts, can probably count on little support from the creditors.
Prof. Warren argued that that should make no difference. "The United State Trustee has an independent obligation to make his or her own judgment," she said. "That's the job."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (97%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (97%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (61%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LESLIE FAY COMPANIES; WEIL, GOTSHAL & MANGES WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (97%); MACY'S INC (61%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: LESLIE FAY COMPANIES; WEIL, GOTSHAL & MANGES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); LAWYERS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUDGES (89%); LITIGATION (78%); ETHICS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); AUDITS (73%); AIRLINES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, ARTHUR J; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE ARTHUR J GONZALEZ (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



493 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
U.S. Investigating Nasdaq's Pricing Practices

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The Justice Department said yesterday that it was investigating the dealers who make Nasdaq markets, an inquiry that intensifies the pressures on Nasdaq to change in ways that could fundamentally alter the nature of the market. At a minimum, the pressures seem likely to cut profit margins for the dealers at the center of the market.
The Federal inquiry appears to be focusing on suspicion of price-fixing in what investors are charged when they buy and sell stocks on Nasdaq, the network of securities dealers linked by computer and phone. 
 The department declined to give details of the inquiry by its antitrust division, which was first reported in The Los Angeles Times, but it appears to stem from civil suits that were filed after an academic study raised the possibility of collusion among market makers.
The Justice Department's inquiry comes as the Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing to change rules in ways that will allow investors to trade at better prices more often than they have in the past. That initiative has led market makers to voice fears that their profits will be slashed, perhaps forcing independent market makers out of business.
Richard G. Ketchum, the chief operating officer of Nasdaq, said he was confident that the Justice Department would conclude "that the Nasdaq market is incredibly competitive" and that there was no reason for antitrust charges to be brought.
A study by two professors, William G. Christie of the Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University and Paul Schultz of Ohio State University, showed that not only were spreads of 25 cents common on Nasdaq, as had been well known in the past, but also that quotes at odd-eighths were rare.
In other words, when a stock is quoted with a bid price (the price at which a market maker will buy the stock) of $50 and an asked price (the price at which the market maker is willing to sell the stock) of $50.25, it is unlikely to move by only 12.5 cents, to a spread of, say, $50.125-$50.375. Bids tend to rise or fall by 25 cents, they concluded, and to stay at even quarters of a dollar. In the above example, when the price rises, it would likely be to $50.50 from $50.25.
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Christie said he had looked in vain for an economic rationale for the lack of odd-eighth quotes, and could find none. "That led us to believe there was an implicit agreement among the market makers not to use those quotes," he said. The study, released in May, prompted a wave of class action lawsuits against the main market makers; those suits seem to have persuaded the Justice Department to have a look.
Mr. Ketchum called the study "extremely flawed" because it ignored the fact that trades occurred within the spread all day long. In recent years rules have been tightened to force that, and the S.E.C. is now pushing for rules to make it happen more often.
Mr. Christie added that after the study was publicized, many market makers began to post odd-eighth quotes. Still, shortly after noon yesterday, two of the largest and most liquid Nasdaq stocks, Intel and Microsoft, had spreads of 25 cents and were quoted at even quarter dollars, with Intel at $59.75 bid and $60 asked, and Microsoft at $57.25-$57.50.
By contrast, Compaq Computer, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, showed a bid-asked spread of 12.5 cents, or $36.375-$36.50. And there were narrow spreads in some Nasdaq stocks, with Apple Computer quoted at $41.75-$41.875.
One reason for the wider Nasdaq spreads is that competition in that market has often focused on areas other than the spread. When a customer places an order for a Nasdaq stock, the broker can either execute that order from its own inventory or send it to another market maker.
Brokers sending orders outside often send most or all of their orders to a specified market maker, frequently in return for payments of a penny or two a share. That market maker will get the order, even if its posted spreads are not the best, as long as it agrees to match the best spread.
In practice, that has meant that if a market maker posts a more aggressive spread, it will narrow the profits available to all but may not bring in a lot more orders to the broker initiating the price cut.
Arthur Levitt Jr., the chairman of the S.E.C., has identified changing Nasdaq rules as a focus of protecting investors. Under pressure from Mr. Levitt, Nasdaq proposed a rule to let many small buy orders be executed at the lower bid price rather than the higher asked price, if customers put in what is called a limit order. The S.E.C. has indicated that it wants to expand that rule to cover more orders, but Mr. Ketchum called that proposal "questionable," citing "a risk of harming the marketplace."
To many Nasdaq market makers, even the Nasdaq proposal does that, threatening to drive many firms out of business and concentrate business at larger integrated firms. They also contend that it would reduce the liquidity available in the Nasdaq market.
Mr. Levitt was at a conference in Tokyo yesterday and not available for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMMISSIONS (FEES) ; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRICE FIXING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CARTELS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); BONDS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIE, WILLIAM G (PROF); SCHULTZ, PAUL (PROF); NORRIS, FLOYD; KETCHUM, RICHARD G WILLIAM G CHRISTIE (57%); RICHARD G KETCHUM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



494 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Ready to Ask U.N. to End Bosnia Arms Ban

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 19

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration said today that it would introduce a Security Council resolution next week calling for the automatic lifting of the arms embargo against Bosnia's Muslim-led Government in six months.
The move is an opening maneuver in what are likely to be delicate negotiations with Russia, Britain, France and Germany, who have been working with the United States in a so-called "contact group" on Bosnian peace. 
 The countries have been trying to win Serbian acceptance of a peace settlement partitioning Bosnia among warring factions and reducing the area under Serbian control from 70 percent to 49 percent. The Serbs have firmly rejected the proposal, while the Bosnian Government has accepted it.
Action to lift the embargo against the Bosnian Government has been demanded by Congress and promised by President Clinton. But the Administration must find a way to avoid a Russian veto of its resolution or a split with European allies, who oppose exempting the Bosnian Muslims from a weapons ban covering all the combatants. The United States will need cooperation from its partners in coming months on other issues like easing economic sanctions against Iraq.
Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate to the United Nations, and Richard Holbrooke, Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, told delegates from the "contact group" countries today of the Administration's plan to introduce the resolution, a United States official said.
The Europeans and Russians have been opposed to what they call "automaticity" in a resolution -- setting a firm future date -- and it is likely that at minimum there will be demands for a weakening of that language, allowing for a renewed look at the issue next spring before action is taken. A French or British veto cannot be ruled out.
For the Clinton Administration, there is little public room for maneuvering at this point. Congress has mandated that American forces can no longer be used to enforce the embargo after Nov. 15 if there is no resolution on lifting the ban or if the resolution is vetoed. Senators and representatives have also vowed to reintroduce legislation requiring the United States to unilaterally lift the embargo when a new Congress assembles after this year's elections. Americans could then sell arms to the Bosnians.
After demanding an end to the ban for more than two years, Bosnia's Government recently agreed to a six-month delay, but it wants a firm deadline fixed now. Britain, France and Russia want the embargo to stay in place indefinitely.
After American lawmakers voted by significant margins in both houses to immediately lift the embargo against the Muslim-led Government, President Clinton promised in August that if the Bosnian Serbs did not accept a peace plan by Oct. 15, he would ask for a Security Council resolution to exempt the Bosnian Muslims.
Britain and France have said that if the embargo is lifted, they will withdraw their peacekeeping troops from Bosnia and Herzegovina, effectively ending the United Nations operation there. The likelihood that this action would free the Serbs to resume direct attacks on Muslim-held towns and cities, including Sarajevo, led the Bosnian President, Alija Izetbegovic, to suggest a six-month delay in lifting the ban when he spoke in the General Assembly on Sept. 27.
As talks were beginning in New York today, the White House tried to bolster the impression of American resolve by saying that if the Security Council did not act, the Administration would go it alone and let the Bosnian Muslims acquire arms.
Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said that if the United Nations failed to act on the American resolution by Nov. 15, "then we would look at ways to perhaps lift the embargo unilaterally."
Russia, which has been supportive of the Serbs and hopeful of brokering an agreement with them, is most vigorously opposed to allowing the Bosnian Muslims to rearm themselves.
In a recent interview with the paper Moscow News, Russia's Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, said that if the arms embargo were lifted it would signal "that the world community washes its hands of the affair."
"The lifting of the embargo means a war according to another scenario," he said. "The peacekeepers would have to be withdrawn from the conflict zone immediately, while diplomacy would have to abandon the last hope for a peaceful resolution of the crisis.
"Such a step would in fact mean saying: Fight to the last Serb, fight to the last Bosnian," he said.
In a letter on Aug. 10 to Senator Sam Nunn, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, President Clinton laid out the problems he would have with Russia and some European nations if the United States acted on its own.
"I believe lifting the embargo unilaterally would have serious implications going well beyond the conflict in Bosnia itself," he wrote.
"It could end the current negotiating process, which is bringing new pressure to bear on the Bosnian Serbs. Our relations with our Western European allies would be seriously strained and the cohesiveness of NATO threatened. Our efforts to build a mature and cooperative realtionship with Russia would be damaged."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bosnian Muslim women watched a british armored vehicle pass by on Tuesday near Zenica in central Bosnia. Britain has said it would remove its troops from the United Nations force if the arms embargo is lifted. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; EMBARGOES ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); RELIGION (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



495 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap With Japan Widens

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19

 BODY:
The United States' trade deficit with Japan jumped 2.4 percent in August, sending the dollar down briefly today near its lowest level since the end of World War II.
By the end of the day, the dollar had recovered slightly, to 97.35 yen to the dollar, but it was clear that the revival of the American currency's strength that surrounded a new trade agreement with Japan late last month was a flicker, not a recovery. 
 The Clinton Administration took some solace in the fact that the monthly trade deficit with the rest of the world improved drastically, shrinking 12.9 percent, to $9.74 billion, on the strength of a surge in exports.
But just weeks before President Clinton travels to Indonesia for a meeting with Asian leaders, the figures clearly showed that the United States' trade problems were concentrated in two countries: Japan, whose surplus seems resistant to all cures, and China, which during the last year has begun to prove that multibillion-dollar surpluses are not bred only in Tokyo.
The trade figures announced today seemed likely to put new pressure on the Administration to deal with a deficit with Japan that has already exceeded $41 billion this year and -- if current trends continue -- could soar higher than $60 billion to a new record. For the month of August, the deficit with Japan was $5.8 billion, not a drastic increase but a striking enough headline on traders' computer terminals to send the dollar spinning.
The reaction in the unforgiving foreign exchange markets to the worsening deficit with Japan showed how short-lived are victories like the one the Administration claimed last month -- a long-sought agreement to open the Japanese insurance, medical and telecommunications equipment markets.
Late last month, as the agreement seemed likely, the dollar began to strengthen considerably, rising to about 99 yen to the dollar. After the agreement was announced, it crept up a bit more, hovering at slightly more than 100 yen. At the time, many traders said they were betting against movement either way, saying the agreement would stabilize the dollar.
But it soon became clear that the new agreement was likely to only make a dent of roughly $2 billion in the trade gap when it was fully implemented. That represents less than 4 percent of the total deficit -- a politically insignificant change. Now, the trade agreement is no longer being used to explain the dollar's movements.
"The foreign exchange markets will not push the dollar up until the deficit begins to narrow," said Ed Yardeni, chief economist of C. J. Lawrence/Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "And the fact is that there is little you can do about Japan's surplus, at a time that the U.S. economy is booming and Japan is still in recession."
The economic expansion in the United States increases the purchase of Japanese autos, machine tools and components, while Japan's continuing slump depresses consumer demand there. Though there are more American goods on display in Japanese stores these days, often at particularly attractive prices because of the yen's appreciation, the gains for American products have been modest.
Much of the continuing deficit with Japan is in automobiles, a subject that the Administration and the Japanese Government put to one side to strike their deal last month.
In private, some officials in the Administration who deal regularly with Japan acknowledge that they are out of fresh ideas about the way to approach trade issues. They have simply tried to keep them on the back burner, while Washington tries to win Japanese cooperation on a range of other issues.
That includes this week's effort to persuade the Japanese to make a multibillion-dollar contribution to the building of nuclear reactors in North Korea. Japanese participation in the project is a key element of the agreement that President Clinton agreed to Tuesday in an effort to stop the North's nuclear weapons program.
"I think there is a sense that we can use the trade surplus to win some Japanese help on other issues these days," one State Department official said this week. "We might as well get some indirect benefits from the deficit."
But China poses a more complicated question. In August the trade deficit with Beijing reached $3.24 billion, up $570 million from the previous month. So far, the year-to-date deficit with China is up 23.7 percent from the comparable period last year. Some economists predict that during the next few months, as the effects of the high yen set in, the trade deficit with Japan should ease a bit. But any shrinking gap will be filled by the growing deficit with China.
According to some theories, the Japanese and Chinese deficits are all of a piece. As the yen climbs, Japanese firms have been transferring more of their manufacturing capacity to China and elsewhere in Southeast Asia. That essentially moves the products from Japan's books to those of other nations.
But sorting out the Japanese content in such products is nearly impossible. And the figures also reflect goods made for American companies that are also expanding in China.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" tracks imports and exports and the deficit from March 1993 throught August 1994. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; CURRENCY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TRENDS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (72%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



496 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Says It Will Soon Allow Business Travel to North

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 19

 BODY:
South Korea is expected to relax restrictions soon on travel by South Korean businessmen to North Korea and on investments in the Communist nation, South Korean officials say.
The expected moves were in keeping with South Korea's praise of the agreement reached with the United States earlier this week intended to halt North Korea's suspected nuclear weapons development. 
 After the accord, South Korean officials have been meeting to discuss various measures to buttress it, including possibly reopening discussions with Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on denuclearization and economic cooperation.
In past weeks, South Korea has been wary of the American negotiating approach with North Korea, warning that Washington might be on the verge of making too many concessions. But since the accord, South Korea has praised the agreement and begun preparations for resuming political discussions and business relationships in the North.
"A turning point has been reached for South and North Korea to seek reconciliation and cooperation," the South Korean President, Kim Young Sam, said Tuesday in a speech read to the National Assembly in Seoul by Prime Minister Lee Yung Duk.
Officials and press reports in Seoul said the Government was expected to relax restrictions soon on travel by South Korean businessmen to North Korea and on investments in the Communist nation.
A few years ago, relations between South and North Korea began to thaw and the two enemies arrived at some basic agreements. South Korea's huge conglomerates began the process of setting up factories and resorts in the North, both to tap into the low-cost labor supply and to help the Communist nation's economy, which is crumbling from fuel shortages and inefficiency.
But all that activity ground to a halt in March 1993 when Pyongyang threatened to pull out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, setting off the crisis that now, after 18 months, seems on the verge of being at least temporarily resolved.
"With the realization of the agreement, the nuclear issue will cease to be a major roadblock and we can expect more exchanges and more dialogue in due course," Han Sung Joo, the South Korean Foreign Minister, said at a news conference Tuesday evening in Seoul. He said talks could resume before the end of this year.
Although South Korean officials say they are ready to talk to the North, it is not clear if the feeling is mutual. North Korea clearly is more interested in economic and political ties with Washington while cutting Seoul, which it brands an American puppet, out of the picture.
"North Korea's basic strategy is they don't want to talk with South Korea," said Cha Young Koo, senior research fellow at the Korea Institute for Defense Analysis in Seoul. "They need an enemy, still, for the stability of their regime."
Despite these uncertainties, and the perennial suspicion in South Korea that North Korea will not keep its promises, the overall assessment of the agreement, which was reached in Geneva, was favorable. Analysts said it might indicate that the Kim Jong Il, who is believed to have taken over as North Korea's leader after the death in July of his father, Kim Il Sung, is open to negotiations.
"The mere fact that an agreement was possible between North Korea and the United States has significance in itself," said Ra Jong Yil, a professor at Kyunghee University in Seoul. "Many people felt North Koreans were people you could not reach agreement with."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



497 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Less Money and Time for Charity, Study Says

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19

 BODY:
With little time and even less money to spare, Americans are declining to give to charity.
A study made public on Tuesday by Independent Sector, an organization that does research on volunteerism, said that 3.4 percent fewer Americans volunteered in 1993 than in 1991, and that Americans are giving about $19 less per household to charitable causes than in previous years. 
 In 1993, American donated $880 per household, down from $899 in 1991, according to the study, which was based on responses from a representative sampling of 1,509 adults.
Virginia A. Hodgkinson, who helped compile the report and is vice president of Independent Sector, said people who belong to charitable organizations tended to donate more money than people who do not. In addition, she said, people who donated time to charities when they were young were more likely to support charities as adults.
Respondents who said they volunteered time to a charity donated almost three times as much money as those who did not volunteer time, the study said.
And nearly three-fourths of those who volunteered time as children continued to donate their time as adults, the study showed. On average, the volunteers donated 4.2 hours a week.
Sarah Melendez, president of Independent Sector, said Americans were giving less to charities even though the nation's economy was improving.
"Americans seem to be more insecure about their financial well being," Dr. Melendez said at a news conference on Tuesday when the results of the study were announced. "This seems to have had a negative effect on charitable contributions over the last few years."
Despite the nation's relatively sound economic condition, 73 percent of those surveyed said they worried about having enough money. In 1992, 67 percent expressed that concern.
Dr. Melendez also said that the income tax law, which does not permit taxpayers to deduct charitable contributions if they do not itemize their deductions, might be partly responsible for the drop in donations. "Nonitemizers have no tax incentive to give," she said, "and that makes an enormous difference in the amount they contribute to charity."
The report also surveyed respondents' confidence in charitable organizations. Those that instilled the highest confidence, and received the largest amount of donations, were religious organizations and educational institutions.
Those earning the least confidence, and less money, were charities for the arts and humanities, and international or foreign charities.
The East Coast was the least magnanimous region in the country, with those surveyed saying they gave an average of 1.5 percent of their income each year. Midwesterners were the most generous, donating on average 2.2 percent. Nationally, households gave an average 2.1 percent of their income to charities in 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (ORGN) INDEPENDENT SECTOR (94%); INDEPENDENT SECTOR (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (ORGN) INDEPENDENT SECTOR (94%); INDEPENDENT SECTOR (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; RESEARCH; VOLUNTEERS CHARITIES (91%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (62%); INCOME TAX (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SARAH MELENDEZ (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



498 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Ebb On More Inflation Talk

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday for the second day after the latest trade report raised investor concern that the Fed's rate increases had not sufficiently slowed the economy to keep inflation in check.
Among other factors weighing on the market were commodity prices, which were up sharply from the start of trading. Meat components led the Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodity futures, which was up 1.45 points to 231.17. Industrial commodities including energy, copper and lumber are also posting solid gains, with precious metals chipping in modestly. 
 The rise in commodity prices added to the market's inflation anxiety. And the dollar was down against most currencies, making dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities less attractive to foreign buyers.
In trading, the 30-year bond slipped 6/32 to 9518/32 for a yield of 7.89 percent, up from 7.87 percent on Tuesday. Shorter-maturity bills were mixed.
The Treasury announced yesterday that it planned to sell $28.25 billion of new two- and five-year notes next week. In when-issued trading ahead of the sale, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.71 percent and the five-year at a price to yield 7.36 percent.
The October home builders' survey showed improvement in the six-month sales outlook, although current sales were flat. Twenty-nine percent of those responding saw good sales so far in October versus 30 percent last month, but 31 percent expected good sales over the next six months compared with 25 percent in September. Analysts said that the housing market was leveling off at a respectable pace.
Marilyn Schaja, an economist for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, saw the trade figures as an indication that manufacturing was continuing to show strength, as was consumer spending. She also said that despite an overall contraction in the trade deficit, the surge in exports and the increase in imports were to be regarded negatively.
Exports rose by 9.3 percent while imports increased by 3.7 percent. Since the exports represent greater demand from abroad, Ms. Schaja said, "these numbers by themselves will not push the Fed" to raise interest rates. But "in conjunction with others, they show the economy is growing above potential," she said, adding, "That is why there will be more tightening in the future."
The deficit for goods and services narrowed in August to $9.7 billion from a revised $11.2 billion in July, up from the original $11 billion.
Elsewhere in fixed-income markets, the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, announced yesterday that it had set up a $20 billion global line of credit to sell debt securities in various currencies, with 10 worldwide dealers involved in marketing and distribution.
Thomas O. Marder, a spokesman for the agency, said it would provide access to clearing systems that allowed investors to trade and settle securities in their own time zones and in the contexts of their own markets. Fannie Mae, a federally chartered corporation, did not detail the amounts, currencies or maturities of the debt it planned to issue.
In corporate debt trading yesterday, the Society Bank of Cleveland priced $1 billion of short-term bank notes in a three-part sale through CS First Boston. The notes, which are not callable, are rated Aa-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A by Standard & Poor's.
The first part includes $200 million of 6.70 percent notes due April 15, 1996, that are priced at par to yield about 30 basis points more than Treasury securities with a comparable maturity. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The second part includes $600 million of 6 7/8 percent notes due Oct. 15, 1996 priced at 99.86 to yield 6.95 percent, or roughly 32 basis points more than a comparable Treasury note. And in the third, $200 million of 7 1/8 percent notes due April 15, 1997, were priced at 99.918 to yield 7.16 percent, or 35 basis points more than a comparable Treasury note.
According to MCM CorporateWatch, it has been nearly eight months since the last big bank note deal. On March 1 the Republic National Bank of New York sold $1 billion of one-year bank notes.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); EXPORT PRICES (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



499 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Airline Stocks Jump as AMR's Net Surges

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
With little to cheer about in recent years, investors in airline stocks celebrated surprisingly strong third-quarter earnings by the parent of American Airlines yesterday by bidding up shares of most major carriers.
The AMR Corporation said yesterday that its net income rose 74 percent, to $205 million, or $2.47 a share, on revenues of $4.23 billion. The earnings were 23 percent better than the average of Wall Street analysts' estimates and were AMR's biggest quarterly profit ever. 
 AMR's stock closed at $53.875, up $1.875, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
AMR typically reports earnings before other airlines, and the Fort Worth-based company is viewed by many investors as a bellwether for other airline stocks. On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, rose $3.25 to $90.125 and Delta Air Lines closed at $47.125 a share, up $1.50.
The airline industry has lost $12.8 billion over the last four years, and despite yesterday's rare good news, AMR officials played down the results for reasons that had as much to do with changes in the industry as with internal negotiations with leaders of its unions.
For all the renewed optimism in the industry, carriers are still expected to earn about $1 billion this year, but because of high costs, their profit margin is expected to be only 1.1 percent.
American, like other established carriers, is also facing increased competition from low-cost airlines that offer cheap fares and few frills to travelers. Carriers like Southwest Airlines have grown rapidly and now compete with American on about 40 percent of its route network. That competition was reflected in a drop in American's yield, or the revenue that each passenger pays to fly one mile, of 3.6 percent, to 12.95 cents in the third quarter.
American is also trying to convince leaders of its unions that the airline needs significant concessions to help permanently lower its costs and improve productivity. Union representatives have not agreed to American's requests for $750 million in concessions.
"In light of our earnings, some may ask if the company still needs to change," said Robert L. Crandall, chairman of AMR. "The answer is that it clearly does."
"Our objective," he added, "must be to report satisfactory financial results, not just in a single quarter, but on a regular basis."
AMR attributed the 74 percent jump in net earnings in part to improving global economies. The airline's load factor, or percentage of seats filled, rose to 68 percent from 64 percent a year ago, more than offsetting the drop in yields.
In addition, the airline noted that its efforts to reduce costs by cutting jobs and dropping service on unprofitable routes led to a 2.2 percent drop in AMR's operating expenses.
Industry analysts said airline stocks jumped yesterday in part because AMR officials had hinted in recent weeks that yields were under more pressure than were reflected in yesterday's results. They added, however, that third-quarter AMR earnings do not signal that there has been any fundamental change in the various pressures on established carriers.
"By no means is the structural problem of the full-service majors solved," said Ray Neidl, an airline analyst at Furman Selz.

GRAPHIC: Table: "AMR Corp. (AMR,N)" 

Qtr. to Sept 30	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	4,233,000,000	4,199,000,000	+0.7	Net inc.	205,000,000	b118,000,000	+74	Sh. earn	2.47	1.33		9m rev.	12,142,000,000	12,225,000,000	+0.8	Net inc.	351,000,000	b143,000,000		Sh. earn	3.95	1.30	 	
 
b-After an extraordinary charge for early retirement of debt of $7 million, or 8 cents a share, in the quarter, and 10 cents a share, in the 9 months.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$53.875
Up $1.875

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (56%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP AMR CORP (96%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); TEXAS, USA (56%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AIRLINES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



500 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls Against the Yen After Trade Deficit Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell near a post-World War II low against the Japanese yen yesterday after the United States Government reported an unexpected widening of America's trade deficit with Japan in August.
The British pound also rose sharply against the dollar, advancing for a seventh consecutive session. 
 After falling in Asian trading, the dollar slid further against the yen on European and United States markets after the Commerce Department said the trade deficit with Japan had risen to $5.8 billion in August. The market had expected a narrowing of the gap. The news refocused attention on Japan's persistent surplus, which preserves a glut of dollars held by Japanese exporters that must be sold for yen.
"The trade number didn't provide any reasons to buy the dollar," said Michael Faust, foreign exchange strategist at Bailard, Biehl & Kaiser, a money management firm in San Mateo, Calif. "Bears were confirmed in their positions and bulls didn't have anything to help their case."
Some market participants noted that the dollar had gained some support from unconfirmed reports of dollar buying by the Bank of Japan and other central banks as the currency veered toward its postwar low of 96.60 yen, a level hit in intraday trading on July 12.
In New York trading yesterday, the dollar settled at 97.35 yen, down from 97.74 yen, its lowest New York close since it fell to 97.25 yen on July 12.
The dollar also slipped against the German mark. It was quoted at 1.5015 marks, down from 1.5027 on Tuesday.
The pound rose to $1.6232, up from $1.6133, in New York trading. The pound has risen about 2.5 percent against the dollar this month and is up more than 9 percent from early this year.
Analysts pointed to a number of factors in explaining the British currency's strength, including a strong economy and the effects of an interest rate increase by the Bank of England in September.
"The Bank of England has raised rates in a manner that was seen more pre-emptive than what you saw in the United States," said Lisa Finstrom, a currency analyst with Smith Barney Inc. "The economy is moving ahead. If that can happen without fears of inflation, the pound will look increasingly appealing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BAILARD BIEHL & KAISER INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BRITISH POUND (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); INTEREST RATES (61%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



501 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: S.& L.'s See New Threat, This Time From Banks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 19

 BODY:
Just as the $200 billion bailout of the savings and loan industry nears its end, Federal regulators are voicing fears about a new threat to the industry.
The problem is this: Although savings and loan companies are mending, commercial banks are recovering from their recession-related troubles even faster. And that means that the premiums commercial banks pay to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are likely to be cut drastically next spring, while the savings and loan industry will continue to pay higher charges for the next seven years to rebuild its own depleted fund. 
 At the savings and loan industry's annual convention here, Andrew C. Hove Jr., the F.D.I.C.'s vice chairman, warned today against giving commercial banks a competitive advantage through lower insurance rates. "A premium differential could place thrifts at a competitive disadvantage," he said.
Jonathan Fiechter, the Clinton Administration's top savings and loan regulator, also expressed similar concerns here on Tuesday.
Mr. Hove and Mr. Fiechter laid out three options, but they refused to choose among them. One option is to merge the bank and savings funds. Another possibility is for Congress to shore up the savings industry fund, using as much as $10 billion left unspent in the savings and loan industry rescue.
A third alternative would be to require the bank fund to share the savings industry fund's burden of making annual interest payments of $793 million through the year 2019 on Federal Government bonds issued in the late 1980's to reimburse depositors at some failed savings institutions.
Not surprisingly, banking industry officials bitterly oppose any plan that puts an additional burden on them. They contend that savings and loan industry officials and some Federal regulators -- including Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve -- are exaggerating the dangers facing savings institutions. "Why on earth should commercial banks and their depositors pay a fee to support the stock prices of savings and loans?" said Edward Yingling, the chief lobbyist for the Washington-based American Bankers Association.
A merger would mean $10 billion in extra costs for banks over the coming years, he added, mostly as contributions to the annual $793 million in payments.
The alternatives are no better. Using taxpayers' money to bail out the savings industry again would be unpopular in Congress. "I think there is going to be tremendous reluctance by Democrats and Republicans," said Howard Menell, the Republican staff director of the Senate Banking Committee.
The squabble over deposit insurance has cast a shadow over the planned end of the industry's bailout by the Federal Government. The Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency that disposes of insolvent savings institutions, is scheduled to sell the last two such institutions by the end of November.
By law, the agency will shut down next year and transfer its staff and any unsold assets to the F.D.I.C. Because the savings and loan industry has fared better this year than anybody expected, the Resolution Trust now appears likely to shut down without spending $8 billion to $10 billion that Congress had authorized the Treasury Department to raise through bond sales, Mr. Katsanos said.
Some savings and loan executives play down the dangers.
"My best guess is that they will not deliberately pass it back to their consumers," said Rudy E. Schupp, the chairman, chief executive and president of the Republic Security Bank, a savings and loan institution based in West Palm Beach, Fla.
But other executives here do not share Mr. Schupp's calm. Mixing metaphors, James F. Montgomery, the chairman and chief executive of a large savings institution, the Great Western Bank, said: "For me to try to compete with Wells Fargo and Bank of America in California with a hand tied behind my back is a pretty big hill to climb,"
Savings and loans differ from banks in that they traditionally specialized in home mortgages and construction loans. They still are required to put slightly more of their assets into housing loans than banks do. Many savings and loans now call themselves banks to avoid the stigma of the industry's bailout.
The insurance premiums assessed on a savings institution's deposits may seem small: about a quarter of 1 percent for the typical bank or savings institution. But the premiums are substantial in light of the thin profit margins in the banking industry.
This year, for instance, savings and loans are prospering, yet profits equal just eight-tenths of 1 percent of total assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (52%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (52%); F D I C (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) F D I C (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; DEPOSIT INSURANCE SAVINGS & LOANS (95%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MERGERS (71%); BONDS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: HOVE, ANDREW C JR; FIECHTER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



502 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Broad Gains Lift Copper; Coffee, Oil and Cattle Rise

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Copper prices posted their steepest one-day gain in more than four months yesterday, spurred on by rekindled dealer demand and talk of an Australian smelter strike.
Copper's surge led a broad advance in commodity prices. Coffee, crude oil and livestock were among the gainers that lifted the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities 1.45 points, to 231.17. 
 On the Commodity Exchange in New York, copper for December delivery rose 4 cents, to $1.186 a pound, the highest in three and a half weeks. It was copper's strongest rise since June 7.
Spot copper prices peaked at a four-year high of $1.285 on Sept. 23 as recovering economies in Europe and the United States increased demand for the metal, which is used in making electrical wire, tubing and other basic products. But the market then retreated, prompting commodity investment funds to sell large holdings in copper futures they acquired during the summer, when prices were rising rapidly.
As the fund selling subsided earlier this week, others rushed in to buy, said Richard Hirsch, vice president of Sharps Pixley, a brokerage subsidiary of the Deutsche Bank in New York. "Copper's been going down," he said. "It had a lot of catching up to do."
James Steel, an analyst with Refco Inc., said the rally began overnight on the London Metal Exchange, partly in response to hazy reports of a strike at an Australian copper smelter. Australia produces about 4 percent of the world's copper.
Coffee prices rose in thin, nervous trading on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York, erasing most of Tuesday's losses, on renewed worries about drought damage to the Brazilian coffee crop. Coffee for December delivery rose 6.7 cents, to $2.016 a pound.
November crude oil rose 20 cents on the New York Mercantile Exchange to $17.42 a barrel after an industry group reported lower United States stocks of gasoline than traders had expected.
Cattle led livestock futures sharply higher on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on expectation that this week's heavy sales of cattle to meatpackers should clear up a backlog of market-ready animals. December live cattle rose 0.90 cent, to 69.30 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (67%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (67%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (67%); CME GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES; COFFEE; LIVESTOCK; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE COPPER MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COFFEE FARMING (77%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



503 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Big government and the Big 3 pass the air pollution buck.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
FOUR years ago Congress got a big round of applause for requiring the states to reduce ozone air pollution to levels that don't send asthmatics to early graves. But it left the details to the states. And -- no surprise -- regulators in the heavily polluted Northeast, who must answer to diverse interest groups, are at a loss on how to get from here to there.
Worse, perhaps, the only Federal agency with the power to drive the bargaining to a conclusion that serves the public is hoping, hoping, hoping someone else will take the political heat. "The Environmental Protection Agency has abdicated its leadership role," argues Dan Dudek, an economist with the New York-based Environmental Defense Fund. 
 Mr. Dudek wants Washington to seize the opportunity to dump the primary cleanup responsibility on auto makers (as state regulators prefer), but give Detroit maximum flexibility in meeting super-tough pollution standards.
Many urban areas do not come close to meeting the national ozone standard. And in recognition of the fact that the pollutants reacting with sunlight to create ozone can travel hundreds of miles on prevailing winds, the 12 states of the Northeast are trying to set policy collectively.
Solutions that ask direct sacrifice from voters are -- you guessed it -- very unpopular. Indeed, what many regulators agreed was an obvious first step -- increased inspection and maintenance of autos already on the road -- has proved a political flop in Maine and Massachusetts. So, in their desperation to meet the Federal standard before Washington is obliged to impose punishing restrictions on local economic development, the Northeast looked to auto makers as the interest with the least capacity to resist.
New York and Massachusetts have already passed laws requiring new cars to meet the exceptionally stringent pollution limits imposed by California -- a mandate that includes the gradual introduction of electric cars into private use. And last year the Northeast states petitioned the E.P.A. to require all 12 in their group to match the overall California emissions requirement.
Auto makers, who worry that the super-clean cars demanded by California will cost a fortune to make and worry even more that the auto market will become Balkanized into a dozen or more environmental enclaves, made a counter-proposal. The Big Three offered to set a low emission standard for every car sold outside California if the Northeast would ease up sufficiently to allow them to avoid the use of exotic technologies.
The offer pleased the E.P.A., which is eager to extricate the Clinton Administration from that space between the rock and the hard place. The White House, after all, has made much of its commitment to nonconfrontational solutions to environmental problems. And it would be delighted to take credit for reductions in emission in states that have not even asked for them.
But the auto makers' proposal angered state regulators and tradition-minded environmental lobbies because it would not force technological change. And it frustrates environmental economists, who sympathize with the auto industry's desire for regulatory certainty, but also get the point that no one is representing consumers in this negotiation. "Setting the same tailpipe standard for Manhattan and Montana makes no sense whatever," argues Robert Hahn of the American Enterprise Institute.
The Environmental Defense Fund, a group that often tries to bridge the gap between environmentalists and economists, thinks there is still a way for the Clinton Administration to do well by doing good. They want the E.P.A. to accept Big Auto's 49-state offer, but beef it up with a requirement that Detroit remove as much tonnage of pollutants from the Northeast as they would by meeting California emissions standards.
And how would auto makers manage that without electric vehicles or other experimental technologies? Any way they choose, Mr. Dudek says. They might, for example, pay the owners of old cars to junk their vehicles, or subsidize the conversion of coal- and oil-fired power plants to natural gas.
Traditional environmentalists ought to be satisfied, Mr. Dudek says, because such market-based flexibility would encourage innovation where it really would be cost effective. The manufacturer of the first affordable electric car that drivers really wanted, for example, would be able to exchange the extra pollution credits for cash.
But market-based fixes are a hard sell. Most environmentalists and state regulators crave the visibility that comes with flashy technological mandates. And while auto makers certainly want the Government to forgo technology-forcing regulation, they still prefer the devil they know (explicit requirements to install antipollution hardware) to the devil they don't. More subtly, they fear emissions trading because its success would tempt regulators to ratchet down the quantity of pollutants that could be emitted.
What seems clear is that no one represents the public, which must pay for regulation whether or not it is efficient. "This is what happens," laments Joseph Goffman, a senior attorney with the Environmental Defense Fund, "when big government meets big business."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); FDM (LSE) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GMR (LSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK AND UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER CORP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CORP (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION AIR POLLUTION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (88%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ASTHMA (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (68%); PETITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



504 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Disregards to Broadway: Neil Simon's Next Play Will Be in 'Off' Category

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

 BODY:
Firing a shot across the bow of Broadway's unions and theater owners, Neil Simon has announced that his newest play will open Off Broadway when it comes to New York.
Mr. Simon is the country's best-known living playwright, and has opened 23 plays on Broadway since "Come Blow Your Horn" in 1961. 
 "It's just not economically viable for us to go to Broadway anymore," Mr. Simon said yesterday from Seattle, where his play "London Suite" has opened to favorable reviews. "It's not even an attempt to make money anymore: the big prize is just to get your money back for the investors."
Emanuel Azenberg, Mr. Simon's longtime producer said: "It's an economic judgment based on an insanity. It costs a minimum of $1.5 million to bring a straight play to Broadway versus $500,000 or $600,000 to do the same play Off Broadway. We're just not getting our money's worth. We keep saying that, and yet we keep doing it, like lemmings. Well, this time the lemming is stopping, and saying 'No.' "
"You want Broadway back?" he asked rhetorically. "Then it's got to change."
By taking this stand, Mr. Azenberg said, he and Mr. Simon are declaring war on Broadway's power structure. "I'm at war with Gerry Schoenfeld," he said, referring to the head of the Shubert theater chain. "I'm not a theater-owner lover."
After being told of Mr. Azenberg's comments, Mr. Schoenfeld said: "He's a belatedly converted lemming. If he's at war with me, then he's at war with a lot of producers who think it makes sense to bring straight plays to Broadway. Look at 'An Inspector Calls.' And 'Les Parents Terribles,' which is coming in the spring. Or 'Greater Tuna.' Or Lincoln Center doing 'Arcadia.' Or Bill Kenwright doing 'The Ideal Husband.' They're all coming."
"He's entitled to his opinion," Mr. Schoenfeld continued, "but we have a lot of plays coming in; it's a late starting season."
Other theater owners were less eager to take up the glove Mr. Azenberg and Mr. Simon threw down. Rocco Landesman, the head of the Jujamcyn theater chain, called Mr. Simon's decision "very alarming."
"It's a message we had better listen to," he said. "If we price ourselves out of the market, we're going to be out of business. Already, you have major playwrights like Pete Gurney who could have filled Broadway houses a few years ago who work entirely Off Broadway. Now Neil Simon -- wow."
Nick Scandalios, a spokesman for the Nederlander theater chain, said the Nederlanders had been prepared to bring "London Suite," a comedy similar to Mr. Simon's "Plaza Suite," to Broadway. "We were holding the Neil Simon Theater for him, and we would have put up money," he said. "We would of course prefer that he do it on Broadway. We've been his happy partner on his last three projects. But whatever Neil and Manny feel is the best thing for the play, we'll stand by them."
Mr. Simon's last Broadway play, "Laughter on the 23d Floor," received mixed reviews and closed without paying back its investors. His last musical, "The Goodbye Girl," was a critical and box-office failure.
"The economics are out of control," Mr. Scandalios admitted. "What does it say about the state of American theater when you've got almost no plays on Broadway and Edward Albee and Neil Simon Off Broadway?"
Mr. Albee's Pulitzer Prize-winning play "Three Tall Women" is enjoying a comfortable run at the Promenade Theater on the Upper West Side. And that brings up a dilemma Mr. Simon is facing. There are not many Off Broadway houses big enough to hold the audiences that would demand to see anything Mr. Simon has written.
"We want a 500-seat house," Mr. Azenberg said. "We'll settle for 450."
There are only a handful of theaters that size: the Promenade; the "Variety Arts," which has a bill of short plays opening in January; the Union Square, which has "Vita and Virginia," with Vanessa Redgrave, opening Nov. 21, and the Minetta Lane, which is to open "Das Barbecu," a satire on the Wagner "Ring" cycle, on Nov. 10.
If they can't get such a house this season, they will "postpone until the right one becomes available," Mr. Simon said.
There was little reaction yesterday -- and no evident outrage -- from the most-affected unions.
"I have no argument with the guy," said Alan Myers, a business agent for the stagehands' union. "We still have plays. We have Circle in the Square and the Roundabout and the Booth Theater. If he wants to lead a movement, as we say in Yiddish, "Zei gezundt -- go in good health."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LONDON SUITE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEIL SIMON THEATER (58%); LONDON SUITE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES; LABOR THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); WRITERS (72%); 

PERSON: SIMON, NEIL; MCNEIL, DONALD G JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



505 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Up, Up and Away: Muted Carlesimo Starts Over

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Oct. 19

 BODY:
So P. J. Carlesimo, the new coach in town, by reputation yells too much. So, what's wrong with that? The guy he replaced supposedly whined too much, and that nobody-respects-me refrain grew old and tired, along with the legs of some of his stars.
The friendly folks here will tell you that Rick Adelman grew, like weeds, on the so-called City of Roses, whose mandate is to take deep, sustaining inhalations of professional basketball, the only major league game it has. 
 Despite reaching the National Basketball Association finals twice in five and a half seasons, despite a winning percentage of 65 percent, it was time for Adelman to take his dour personage elsewhere. It was time, the multibillionaire owner of the Portland Trail Blazers determined, to bring in a high-energy, raspy voiced power boy, and how about that noisy fellow with the Smith Brothers cough drop look? How about the red-bearded charmer from back East, from the Big East, from the field of big reputations, mouths and dreams?
How about a guy who could make one of the smallest and most provincial markets in North America, coupled with one of the N.B.A.'s more phlegmatic rosters, instantly sound like the 1980's Magic Johnson Lakers relocated to heaven?
"Our goal is to win the championship," the new coach said, with the verve of Rick Pitino, with the sentiment of Larry Brown, and with more than $7 million of the computer giant Paul Allen's money guaranteed over the next five years.
Of the Trail Blazers, Carlesimo said: "There aren't too many jobs as good as this one."
This is the job that finally drew Carlesimo away from his self-described utopia known as South Orange, N.J., and his ongoing five-year rollover contract with Seton Hall because there came from within him a voice that said, simply, "Yes."
Other schools had tried to pry him away from Seton Hall, where Carlesimo coached 12 years and came within seconds and one of the most generous bump foul calls in history of winning the national championship in 1989. Other N.B.A. teams had informally inquired. It was not until last spring, when the caller was Brad Greenberg of the Blazers' front office, when the question was whether he might be interested in flying out, that Carlesimo realized he'd bit at the first sign of bait.
"Usually I would say, 'No thanks,' and then two or three days later I'd say to myself, 'Maybe I should have listened,' " Carlesimo said. "But when I heard Brad on the phone, when I thought, 'Portland,' all of a sudden it felt right."
All of a sudden, Carlesimo was at his parents' home on a tree-lined street in Upper Montclair, N.J., the family called into conference to talk Carlesimo out of leaving or help him tie the loose ribbons around his decision to go west. His father, 79-year-old Pete, presided at the head of the table, as usual. His mother, Lucy, kept the soup and pasta coming, as usual. His nine brothers and sisters, among them two lawyers, a film director, a voice-over specialist and a cosmetics executive, volleyed their famous brother's options, as usual.
"No one thought I shouldn't take it," said the 45-year-old bachelor.
The notion of this drizzly outpost on Oregon's northern border had a certain appeal, an air of comfort, of familiarity. This was where he'd sent two of his best Seton Hall big men, Mark Bryant and Ramon Ramos, where he'd come to keep a bedside vigil for Ramos when a car crash nearly killed the player in 1989. This was where his appetite for the pro game was whetted, as an assistant Dream Team coach during the pre-Olympic Tournament of the Americas in the early summer of 1992.
This was where another of those state-of-the-art, N.B.A sky box palaces was rising next door to the outdated Memorial Coliseum: the 20,300-seat Rose Garden arena doesn't open until next season but is already sold out. And this was where the owner, said to be the richest in American team sports, has stated that he wants a championship, costs be damned.
"Portland's a pretty unique situation, and it had to be to get me to leave Seton Hall," Carlesimo said.
What Allen and Portland offered Carlesimo is truly unique in this sports management era of ideological combat for economic control of big-time sports leagues. It offered small-market life style and big-market checkbook.
Small market notwithstanding, there were grand expectations in Portland, long before Allen. The Blazers won the N.B.A. championship in 1977, with Bill Walton as their star, with Dr. Jack Ramsay as their coach, with smart, fluid teamwork as their m.o. For as long as there is a franchise here, that team will set the standard for excellence, much like Red Holzman's 1970 champion Knicks in New York.
The Blazer critics are quite different from the rest of the league. The news media reacts to Blazer doings like those of the fire department and the police. The fans cheer enthusiastically when things go well. They sit in stony silence, like disapproving parents, when things go bad.
Last season, despite 47 victories and a one-round playoff incursion, things were considered bad.
"We've had a good run the last few years, but we didn't win the whole thing and so in a lot of people's minds here it wasn't good enough," said Clyde Drexler. "There's a feeling we were moving backward. P. J. helps change that feeling. He's enthusiastic. He's got a lot of energy. He's got a lot of people in Portland thinking the team is going to move forward again."
It is, until proven otherwise, wishful thinking. Drexler, the Blazers' popular star, is 32, with rebellious legs. Buck Williams, their enforcer, is 34. Last season's leading scorer, Clifford Robinson, barely saluted the incoming coach as he walked out of camp, demanding that his $2.5 million contract be redone, beyond the $4 million-a-year lines of center Chris Dudley, a shot blocker with no offense who missed almost all of last season with a broken ankle.
Into this urban anomaly and twisted set of expectations steps Carlesimo, a natural-born salesman and program builder at tiny Wagner College in Staten Island in the 1970's and then, in the early 1980's, at sputtering Seton Hall. Back then, Carlesimo was bound to be heard, which guaranteed he'd be seen. From his customary late-night Italian restaurant haunts, he lobbied cooks to keep their kitchens open, entertained students, officials, reporters, fans. He made friends. He sold tickets.
The difference here, as Carlesimo said, is "we don't have to sell tickets." There hasn't been an empty seat in years. Mostly, Carlesimo has to sell himself, as pro material, to a veteran team, jaded by disappointment, as well as by the inevitability of decline.
His reputation for high volume, for berating his players, preceded him, if only because Bryant, one of Carlesimo's first major recruits at Seton Hall, preceded him by six years.
"From what I can see, he's already toned it down," said Bryant.
Sure enough, Carlesimo was a picture of solemnity pacing the sidelines during the Blazers' preseason victory Tuesday night.
It's a question and subject he doesn't want to dwell on, but he does, anyway. He knows people wonder.
"Look, I'm coaching men now," he said. "There should be less pushing, less prodding, because these are pros who know their jobs."
To demonstrate that he is much more than voice and beard, that his Seton Hall teams won because they were always positioned right in opponents' faces, Carlesimo lifted the defensive guru Dick Harter from Pat Riley's Knicks staff. Harter is 63, respected leaguewide, and realistic enough to know whatever evolution the Blazers experience won't happen overnight.
"We don't have Patrick and we don't have Oak," he said, referring to Patrick Ewing and Charles Oakley.
Of Carlesimo's adjustment, Harter said the real challenge will be nuts and bolts, the rules, the pace of game and season. He needs time to learn, like any rookie. But, Harter said, he is too smart, too hard a worker, not to.
"The players will respond because they'll see P. J. is sincere," Harter said. "Just like in college, personality can carry the day in this league, too."
Drexler, for one, recalls Carlesimo as the assistant who would prep the Dream Team on its opponents. "He'd get up in the locker room in front of the best players in basketball, and it was like he'd been in the league 15 years," Drexler said. "You could tell he had that. . . ."
Drexler paused, groping for the right word.
"Chutzpah," he said, finally, capturing the essence of what grows now in the City of Roses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: P. J. Carlesimo, the former Seton Hall coach, may have yelled at his Portland players this week, but he said he can usually afford to be much quieter. (Craig Strong for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (94%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); ORLANDO MAGIC (55%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); ORLANDO MAGIC (55%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OREGON, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASKETBALL (94%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); RELOCATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; CARLESIMO, P J PAUL ALLEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



506 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: The Governor's Plan for Lilco

 BODY:
Gov. Mario Cuomo's proposed takeover of the Long Island Lighting Company is clearly an election-year ploy. Three weeks before elections, he says the takeover would yield a 10 percent cut in electricity bills for Long Island voters. But whatever the Governor's motive, his proposal warrants serious attention. Indeed, with additional safeguards the plan could yield sizable benefits to Lilco shareholders and customers.
At the core of the plan is a tax dodge. If the state were to buy Lilco from its shareholders, the utility would no longer owe Federal taxes and could borrow at tax-free -- therefore low -- interest rates. Lilco could use the low-cost loans to buy back shares, thereby eliminating dividends, and to replace existing high-cost loans. The potential saving is huge because Lilco is buried in debt, in part because it built a $5.5 billion nuclear plant, Shoreham, which it never opened in the face of ferocious opposition from nearby residents and, well, Governor Cuomo. 
 A state takeover would, then, transfer perhaps $300 million in Federal tax savings each year to Lilco. According to Mr. Cuomo's plan, Lilco would then rebate about $200 million to customers through rate cuts. The company could plow the $100 million balance into economic development and energy conservation projects.
Critics complain that the plan would put Lilco in the hands of public managers. They fear that the $300 million windfall would be swallowed up over time by managerial inefficiency. They also worry about turning over a $100 million slush fund to a publicly owned monopolist. Yet studies of private versus public utilities around the country do not show that private managers systematically do a better job controlling energy costs.
Based on experience in other states, the key to protecting Long Island customers is not whether Lilco is run by private or public managers. The key is subjecting Lilco to competition. S. David Freeman, the energy official who would manage the takeover, accepts that vision and plans to sell Lilco's generating facilities. He would then open up the company's transmission lines to companies that want to sell electricity to Lilco's customers. The idea is to drive electricity prices down by forcing companies to bid against each other for business.
But critics worry that Lilco might renege on this promise. State regulators are preparing rules that would subject utility companies to more competitive pressure. But the state regulatory authority would exert no control over Lilco once it is publicly owned. Mr. Cuomo needs to amend his proposal so that Lilco, as a condition of public ownership, would be required to adopt whatever pro-competition rules state authorities impose on private utility companies.
Competition can keep Lilco in line, guaranteeing that Long Island residents reap the benefit of a tax dodge without suffering from laggard management of its utility. That way, a clever campaign promise can become smart energy policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; RATES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAKEOVERS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); TAX FRAUD (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



507 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Germany Discriminates Against Scientology

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For me, as a German, now living in this country, "Officials in Germany Denounce Sect as a Menace to Democracy" (news article, Oct. 13) lays out exactly the warped mind-set of the German Government when dealing with religious minorities it does not understand, even when those minorities have been recognized as religions by the highest courts of Germany. 
 From 1982 to 1992 I built up an image and fashion consulting business to more than 650 franchises across Germany. I trained each franchise holder.
In 1992 I was accused of using my business as a front for the Church of Scientology because I myself am a member of that church. The news raged in the media, and although I have always considered my religion a private affair, within two years the majority of my franchise holders had canceled their contracts because they were accused of collaborating with Scientology.
Religious discrimination to me meant watching my business disintegrate before my eyes; it meant my children were no longer admitted to kindergarten; it meant dismissal of my husband from the district board of directors of Rotary despite his outstanding service.
The sad truth is that I am not alone. Thousands of Scientologists in Germany suffer the same plight.
In 1933 Nazi soldiers paraded with boards exhorting "Germans! Defend Yourselves! Don't Buy From Jews!" And signs that proclaimed "Jews Are Unwelcome Here!" were erected at village entrances. I understand the anger and frustration that the Jews must have felt when suddenly hit with economic and social restrictions by Hitler's Nazis. I am ashamed of today's German Government.
 
JOHANNA ERDTMANN
Clearwater, Fla., Oct. 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENTOLOGY, CHURCH OF CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY (57%); CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCIENTOLOGY, CHURCH OF CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY (57%); CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF RELIGION; DISCRIMINATION; JEWS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS RELIGION (97%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); FRANCHISEES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (69%); 

PERSON: ERDTMANN, JOHANNA

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



508 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: PENNSYLVANIA SENATOR
Struggle for the Senate;
In Pennsylvania, Round 2 on Healt

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 18

 BODY:
Just months ago, most analysts, and many people in his own Republican Party, had dismissed Representative Rick Santorum, who is challenging Senator Harris Wofford, as too far to the right to suit the political tastes of most Pennsylvanians.
The state, after all, has a history of sending moderate Republicans to Washington -- lawmakers like Arlen Specter, John Heinz 3d, Hugh Scott and Richard S. Schweiker. Confronted with a newly conservative Dick Thornburgh in 1991, voters instead chose Mr. Wofford, their first Democratic Senator in 30 years. 
But today, the 36-year-old Mr. Santorum, who fiercely opposes gun control, abortion, family leave and extending unemployment insurance, has pulled even in the polls with Mr. Wofford, whose election three years ago helped push the issue of health care to the top of the national agenda. Indeed, Mr. Wofford paved the way for Bill Clinton's own emphasis on the issue.
For Mr. Santorum, that has provided ideal ammunition. He describes President Clinton's health proposal as "socialized medicine" that the country repudiated, and Congress's failure to adopt the Clinton plan only reminds voters that Mr. Wofford did not deliver on his central issue.
There are several other reasons Mr. Santorum, a little-known two-term Congressman from Pittsburgh, has a chance of becoming the state's first conservative in recent times to break through to the Senate. Chief among them is voters' deep dissatisfaction with Mr. Clinton. Just as Pennsylvanians used Mr. Wofford to send a message to President George Bush three years ago in a special election to fill a vacant Senate seat, they could well use him again to send a message to President Clinton.
"Bill Clinton is as enormously unpopular in Pennsylvania as he is everywhere else," said Neil Oxman, a Democratic consultant here. "If Clinton's numbers were reasonable, this wouldn't be a race."
Moreover, the striking contrasts between Mr. Santorum and the 68-year-old Mr. Wofford, ideological and otherwise, infuse every aspect of this increasingly vituperative race.
To Mr. Santorum, Mr. Wofford is obsolete, an intellectual idealist who has done little for Pennsylvania, is ineffectual in Washington and is stuck in the "unworkable" 1960's notion that big government can solve every problem.
To Mr. Wofford, Mr. Santorum is a "right-wing radical" who distorts the truth, whose mean-spiritedness appeals to the worst in people and whose election would embolden the already obstructionist Republicans in Congress.
The candidates' differences were crisply caught during a recent radio debate in Pittsburgh. Mr. Wofford was reflecting on the national service law he helped enact and how it would help students pay for college, much like the G.I. Bill, when Mr. Santorum erupted: "Somebody is going to do one year of community service picking up trash in a park and singing 'Kumbaya' around a campfire, and you're going to give them the equivalent of a G.I. Bill!"
Given Mr. Santorum's firebrand nature and commitment to the cause, Republicans in Washington foresee a high-profile future for him if he is elected on Nov. 8 and the Republicans regain control of the Senate. Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, is already praising him as a future majority leader. And Mr. Santorum makes no secret of his desire to play on the national stage.
"I'm not afraid to stand up and tell people what the vision is for this country and articulate it in terms of individual freedoms and liberties as opposed to government control," he said in an interview. "Most candidates in Pennsylvania talk about locks and dams, things that are non-ideological, and as a result, we've not had a whole bunch of impact on the national scene."
Beyond that, Mr. Santorum has benefited from Mr. Wofford's campaign, a somewhat unfocused effort, marked chiefly by the Senator's compulsion to dwell on health care. While that reminds voters that Mr. Wofford did not deliver on his central issue, he said in Pottsville, "If I'm re-elected, it will be a signal to go back to the drawing board."
Taking a cue from national Democrats, Mr. Wofford criticizes the trickle-down economic policy of the Reagan Administration, which he says left Pennsylvania "on its back."
But Mr. Santorum has an easy retort for that, noting that he was not even in Congress when Ronald Reagan was President.
G. Terry Madonna, a political analyst at Millersville University, said: "Wofford hasn't given voters a reason to vote for him. He hasn't made a connection."
Mr. Wofford has also failed to make Mr. Santorum out to be a "right-wing crazy," Mr. Madonna said, an obvious tack that many analysts are surprised he has not taken.
The Senator spent more than $1 million on television advertisements, but used them to badger Mr. Santorum on minor issues like his attendance record, which did nothing to improve Mr. Wofford's standing in the polls. Mr. Wofford said in an interview that this would soon change and that despite his reputation as too courtly to go for the jugular, he was prepared to do just that.
Still, his overarching message is that he stands for the common good and wants to bring people together.
Wofford backers suggest that Mr. Santorum is the stealth candidate of the Christian Coalition. Mr. Santorum, whose campaign has bought the mailing list of the 50,000-member Pennsylvania Christian Coalition, said the group was but one of several, including the National Rifle Association and the Pro-Life Federation, whose members are combing the state for him.
Nonetheless, the Santorum campaign seems a textbook example of what Ralph Reed Jr., executive director of the Christian Coalition, described in an essay last year. Mr. Reed said the "pro-family movement" could win elections by not harping on social issues and speaking instead "to the concerns of average voters in the areas of taxes, crime, government waste, health care and financial security."
At the same time, Mr. Santorum has received the support of the state's leading moderate Republican, Senator Specter, who openly -- but futilely -- tried to recruit a female Republican candidate who favored abortion rights to oppose Mr. Santorum in the primary.
But Mr. Specter has now lent Mr. Santorum three top aides and said, "He's had the support of my entire operation."
Granting that Mr. Santorum's votes in Congress have differed from his, Mr. Specter said, "I'm not looking for someone who agrees with me on all the issues."
Indeed, with his climb in the polls and a new-found confidence, Mr. Santorum now describes Mr. Specter as the one "out of the mainstream."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A "Campaign Snapshot" chart on Oct. 20, about the Pennsylvania Senate race, misstated voter registration figures in some editions. The figures for registered voters are: Democrats, 2,946,266; Republicans, 2,476,977; Others, 369,038.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Harris Wofford, a Democrat who rode to victory on the health care issue three years ago, is now seeing repercussions from his support of it. He met with students at Allentown College on Tuesday.; Representative Rick Santorum, a Republican once considered too conservative to win a Senate seat, is viewed as a threat to Senator Wofford. Mr. Santorum campaigned at LaSalle University in Philadelphia on Tuesday. (pg. A24) (Photographs by Bill Cramer for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "CAMPAIGN SNAPSHOT: Pennsylvania"
SENATE RACE
 
Democrat: Harris Wofford, 68, incumbent
Republican: Rick Santorum, 36
 
Analysis
 
Just as voters used Harris Wofford to send a message to President George Bush in 1991 when they chose not to send Dick Thornburg to the Senate, they could well use him again to send a message to President Clinton by electing Rick Santorum.
 
LATEST POLL RESULTS
 
A survey of 335 likely voters by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and WTAE-TV Oct. 3-6 showed Mr. Wofford with 40 percent, Mr. Santorum with 39 percent and 17 percent undecided. Margin of sampling error, plus or minus six percentage points. A survey of 569 likely voters by the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville University in conjunction with The Philadelphia Daily News and KYW-TV, Oct. 1-3, showed Mr. Wofford with 38 percent, Mr. Santorum with 38 percent and 18 percent undecided. Margin of sampling error, plus or minus four percentage points.
 
(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (86%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) RICHARD S GOLDSTEIN (57%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA; ; UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (86%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH ; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); GUN CONTROL (70%); FAMILY (70%); INSURANCE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; SANTORUM, RICK (REPR); WOFFORD, HARRIS (SEN) RICK SANTORUM (94%); BILL CLINTON (94%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



509 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A sharing of clients, but not ownership, quickens the growth of a Hispanic-owned agency in Dallas.

BYLINE: By Kathryn Jones 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
HISPANIC-OWNED advertising agencies often face a common quandary: how do they get the power and the clients they need to grow, yet remain independent?
Victor F. Ornelas struggled with that question six years ago when he started his own agency on his dining room table here. He decided that he did not want to be swallowed up as a Hispanic division of a general market agency, as was the trend. Instead, he built his agency by forming an alliance with Tracy-Locke Inc., now part of DDB Needham Dallas Group. 
 The affiliation, which involves the sharing of clients but not agency ownership, put Ornelas & Associates on its feet, and now it is running so hard that it is one of the fastest-growing Hispanic advertising agencies in the country. Last month, Hispanic Business magazine named Mr. Ornelas its national entrepreneur of the year, based on the agency's growth record.
Billings, which were $150,000 the first year, are expected to reach $25 million this year and $50 million in the next three years. Ornelas & Associates has won many large advertising accounts on its own, including Hispanic marketing campaigns for the Anheuser-Busch Companies, the Banc One Corporation, Borden Inc., the Southland Corporation and Wrangler Jeans.
The idea behind the affiliation with DDB Needham was to share the general market agency's clients that wanted to reach the Hispanic market -- companies like the Pepsi-Cola Company, a division of Pepsico Inc.; the McIlhenny Company, maker of Tabasco brand hot sauce, and the GTE Corporation. Mr. Ornelas has added several key Hispanic employees from DDB Needham, including his agency's account service director and creative director. His agencynow has 35 employees, most of them Hispanic.
"We knew that once we formed a strategic alliance, it could really accelerate our growth," Mr. Ornelas, who is 46, said from his office filled with brightly colored Mexican art and pre-Columbian artifacts.
Marketing to Hispanic consumers goes beyond merely translating an ad into Spanish, Mr. Ornelas said. It means developing a separate strategy for the Hispanic community, with consumers from many different countries bound by a common language.
"If you're marketing soft drinks, for example, how much do they consume, where, when and what?" Mr. Ornelas said. "First and foremost you have to understand what is relevant to the Hispanic community. We recommend a lot of primary research, such as focus groups and quantitative surveys. Once you have that foundation, you can test the market strategy and position and see if it's relevant and works."
Tracy-Locke was handling Pepsi's national promotions and field advertising and marketing -- including major Hispanic markets in Southern California and Texas -- when it decided on the affiliation with Mr. Ornelas in 1989.
"It was the right move at the right time," said Mike Rawlings, president of DDB Needham Dallas Group. "We got a great resource and can act as one agency on a GTE or a Pepsi account. We have close financial ties, but it's his company."
The "Pepsi Man" campaign, introduced in June 1993, established Ornelas & Associates as an agency to watch. Styled as a caped crusader to do battle with rival Coca-Cola, Pepsi Man, played by the comedian Paul Rodriguez, took the Pepsi Challenge taste test to the Hispanic market. It was, indeed, a challenge because many Hispanic consumers had grown up drinking Coca-Cola.
"Coke does have an advantage in the Hispanic market because historically they have had a stronger Latin American business than we have had," said William C. Cobb, Pepsi-Cola's vice president of marketing for colas.
While Pepsi-Cola declined to release any specific sales figures or market data, Mr. Cobb said the "Pepsi Man" campaign had increased brand awareness of Pepsi in key Hispanic markets.
"In San Antonio, for example, business is absolutely booming," Mr. Cobb said. "We're very pleased with our sales results in intensely targeted markets."
The campaign is still running and is one of the largest advertising campaigns ever aimed at a Hispanic audience -- how large, neither Pepsi nor Mr. Ornelas would say, except that it was in the millions of dollars. Pepsi-Cola is the largest client of Ornelas & Associates.
The agency also created Wrangler's "Viva la Tradicion" campaign, which featured a Mexican vaquero, or cowboy, and developed a campaign for Budweiser that doubled the beer's share of the Hispanic market in Texas.
But the market is a moving target, Mr. Ornelas said. That might pose challenges for advertisers in the future, but it also could give Hispanic agencies more opportunities to grow, he said.
"The whole market has become a paella," Mr. Ornelas said, referring to the traditional Spanish dish with saffron rice as its base and an assortment of vegetables, seafood and meat tossed in. "Every element is unique and distinct. General market agencies have not become that diverse. They can't walk the bicultural line."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%); 8634 (TSE) (68%); VZC (LSE) (66%); VZ (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (68%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (66%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (66%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (66%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (55%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ORNELAS & ASSOCIATES; TRACY-LOCKE CO; DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE TRACY-LOCKE INC (83%); PEPSICO INC (82%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (68%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%); PEPSI-COLA CO (66%); MCILHENNY CO (66%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (66%); ORNELAS & ASSOCIATES INC (57%); BORDEN INC (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (55%); DDB NEEDHAM DALLAS GROUP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORNELAS & ASSOCIATES; TRACY-LOCKE CO; DDB NEEDHAM WORLDWIDE DDB NEEDHAM DALLAS GROUP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (64%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); 

PERSON: JONES, KATHRYN; ORNELAS, VICTOR F MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994



510 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Build Laser to Create Nuclear Fusion

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
In the first major step toward the restructuring of the nation's nuclear weapons complex for the post-cold-war era, the Energy Department has approved a proposal to build a giant $1.8 billion laser machine at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California. The announcement, to be made by Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary, is planned for today.
The device is to generate miniature blasts of thermonuclear fusion energy for studying how the stars shine, how such nuclear fire may be harnessed on earth to generate electrical power and how the reliability of hydrogen bombs can be maintained without full-scale, explosive tests underground. 
 Housed in a building the size of two football fields, the project would easily be the world's largest and most powerful assemblage of lasers.
The decision to build the machine marks a turning point for Livermore, a cold-war bastion set adrift with the demise of its old job of designing nuclear warheads. The project has also sparked vigorous debate within Government and scientific circles over whether it will help or hinder the spread of nuclear weapons.
If the plan is approved by Congress, which seems likely, the giant laser will give the sprawling, 8,500-person laboratory a new lease on life. The laboratory has lost 1,500 jobs in the last few years, and an injection of money would check the downturn with new recruits, especially young physicists.
"This is a big step not just for the complex but for the nation," Secretary O'Leary said in a telephone interview from California, where she had traveled to make the announcement at Livermore.
The Secretary said that both President Clinton and Congress had asked the department for a means of insuring the integrity of the nation's nuclear arsenal without having to resort to explosive testing. "This answers the question of maintaining our core competence," she said.
Dr. Henry W. Kendall, a nobel laureate in physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who advises the Energy Department, hailed the decision as key to keeping Livermore alive scientifically and ready to battle with a growing number of "global environmental and resource problems that are beginning to stun us."
On a local level, the machine, known as the National Ignition Facility, or N.I.F., should also help boost the battered Northern California economy, which will get lots of the 1,500 new jobs the project is expected to generate in construction, manufacturing and operations.
News of the machine's approval also stands to aid California Democrats now engaged in do-or-die re-election campaigns. Senator Dianne Feinstein and other members of the California delegation, have been invited to the announcement today at Livermore, which is in a dry valley about 40 miles east of San Francisco.
Congress is increasingly worried about the stewardship of the nation's nuclear stockpile after the cold war and is seen as likely to approve the costly effort, which is backed by the Armed Services Committees in the House and the Senate.
Some experts worried about the spread of nuclear weapons argue that the laser machine makes the United States look hypocritical as it urges other nations to forgo the weapons testing while perfecting a new device to do so in miniature.
But other experts say the project is a necessary evil that allows the United States to spearhead the drive for a global ban on nuclear testing, which is a major goal of the Clinton Administration and is the subject of negotiations in Geneva. The United States is maintaining a self-imposed ban on testing.
The machine would help scientists push back the frontiers of nuclear physics and astrophysics while learning scientific subtleties that might be applied to nuclear weaponry, and would create a cadre of experts that, in theory, could design new bombs if needed.
No nuclear weapons could be designed with N.I.F., Government officials and private experts say. Its relationship is more indirect, in that certain weapon-physics problems could be studied experimentally.
Secretary O'Leary, as part of the approval process, has asked for a detailed follow-up study that would resolve the question of whether the giant laser would aid or hinder the nation's efforts to curb the spread of nuclear weapons. The study is to be ready sometime next year.
"Frankly, I do not believe this is a threat to nonproliferation," she said. "But having heard those concerns raised with great vigor by people I respect, we're going to examine that question more thoroughly."
The cost, goals and proposed site of the project at Livermore have made it a political hot potato.
The Energy Department was to have decided in May whether to include a request for the construction of the project in the Federal budget for the 1996 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1, 1995 and is now being prepared by Federal agencies for the Clinton Administration. By all accounts, its approval was assured.
But at the last minute, the decision was put off till now, apparently because of a debate over whether the project might inadvertently foster the spread of nuclear weapons.
Today's announcement will be the first of many expected in the next few years as the Government seeks to recast the role of its national complex of laboratories and nuclear-production plants, which was born half a century ago at the dawn of the nuclear age and now employs more than 100,000 people in 15 states.
The Energy Department safeguards the nation's nuclear arsenal, dismantles warheads, conducts scientific research and is spending a growing amount of its $18 billion budget on a cleanup meant to ameliorate some of the most deadly environmental legacies of the cold war.
If successful, the N.I.F. would be the world's first device to control thermonuclear ignition, in which hydrogen or isotopes of hydrogen are fused together to form helium, releasing a burst of energy, a process better known for lighting stars and powering hydrogen bombs.
The machine would work by firing the dazzling light from 192 lasers down a labyrinth of mirrors, focusing a titanic bolt of energy -- a thousand times the output of all the power stations in the United States -- onto a single tiny pellet of super-cold hydrogen fuel and creating a miniature thermonuclear blast.
No lights in the United States would dim when it was fired. Energy for the machine's discharge would be slowly stored up and then released in a fiery discharge lasting one-billionth of a second or so, its shortness giving it incredible strength.
In theory, the machine would be strong enough to go beyond the break-even point in the quest for controlled nuclear fusion, where the energy consumed in the effort equals the energy released. Instead, it would go into the realm of "ignition," where sufficient heat is generated to make fusion reactions self-sustaining.
The National Ignition Facility is envisioned as a national resource, to be run jointly with the nation's other two nuclear-weapons labs -- Los Alamos and Sandia, both in New Mexico -- and the University of Rochester, a pioneer in laser fusion.
The project's $1.8 billion price tag includes operating costs over the laser's projected lifetime of 15 years.
In the Government's current current fiscal year, studies related to the project are getting about $8 million, Energy officials say. With the approval, the budget for the next fiscal year will swell to between $50 million and $60 million, and be much bigger in later years as construction gets under way.
Dr. Thomas B. Cochran, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington, has studied the laser project proposal and found it wanting. "They desperately need to address the nonproliferation issue," he said. "They need to address whether N.I.F. is really the right strategy."
Dr. Cochran acknowledged that the proposal was likely to sail through Congress next term, but that it might face trouble later on. "In effect," he said, "this kicks the hard decision off another year or so, until you have to spend serious money for construction."
Herbert F. York, Livermore's first director and a consultant to the Government on the restructuring of the nation's atomic complex, applauded Secretary O'Leary's decision, saying that fears about it aiding the spread of nuclear weapons were not unfounded but had to be weighed against the greater good.
"This science-based stockpile stewardship is part of the bargain that makes it possible to have a comprehensive test ban," he said. "And that itself is a powerful tool for the promotion nonproliferation. So in the net, I think going ahead with N.I.F. is a good way to support further moves in the direction of arms control and disarmament."


GRAPHIC: A $1.8 billion project would focus 192 lasers on a chamber holding a tiny fuel pellet. The resulting X-rays would compress and heat it to 200 million degrees Fahrenheit, releasing a great burst of fusion energy. Diagram illustrates how the machine would look. (Source: Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory) (pg. A22)
Diagram: "Giant Machine to Achieve Controlled Fusion"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; LASER (LIGHT AMPLIFICATION BY STIMULATED EMISSION OF RADIATION); ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; FUSION (NUCLEAR REACTION); TESTS AND TESTING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ; SPACE; RESEARCH NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); LASERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); 

PERSON: O'LEARY, HAZEL R (SEC); BROAD, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (68%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



511 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE APPEAL;
Pataki Courts Black Voters As Jackson Backs Cuomo

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
On a campaign day that highlighted the importance of black voters, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo won a rousing endorsement from the Rev. Jesse Jackson while his opponent, George E. Pataki, traveled to southeast Queens and Harlem to argue that black New Yorkers should vote Republican because they are so often the victims of violent crime.
Polls suggest that black voters will side overwhelmingly with Mr. Cuomo on Nov. 8, as they have in his three previous elections. But both campaigns also understand that a Cuomo victory may depend on a huge turnout by black voters, perhaps as large as the 50 percent turnout for David N. Dinkins, New York City's first black mayor, in last year's municipal elections. 
 To inspire a large turnout, Mr. Cuomo and his surrogates are depicting Mr. Pataki, in the language of one Cuomo brochure, as "too frightening for us to let him win."
Mr. Jackson advanced that theme yesterday afternoon at a rowdy rally at the Manhattan headquarters of Local 1199 of the hospital workers union as he endorsed Mr. Cuomo. "If you vote Republican, or don't vote at all, you aid the bird in the bush and the phantom," he said.
The Pataki campaign is responding to such attacks by placing the candidate in black neighborhoods and the pulpits of black churches in a calculated effort to demonstrate that he is not the demon the Democrats have made him out to be.
"We've seen the Cuomo campaign repeatedly sling mud and paint George as a member of the radical right, and anyone who knows George Pataki knows that's not true," said a top Pataki campaign official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. In addition, the official said, the Pataki campaign is not entirely ceding the black vote to Mr. Cuomo. "They, like other New Yorkers, want streets that are safe from crime," the official said.
Mr. Pataki has saved his hardest pummeling on the crime issue for the closing weeks of the gubernatorial campaign. He began broadcasting a television ad this week in which a mother from Red Hook, N.Y., blames Mr. Cuomo directly for her son's murder this year because the assailant had been paroled from a state prison.
Mr. Cuomo said yesterday that the ad "sounds ugly and it sounds as though they're desperate." He also said the ad was not factually correct because the killer would have served out his full sentence by the time the attack occurred, even if he had not been paroled.
"I think it's a lie actually," he told reporters. "The question of taste I'll leave to the people who see it."
But Mr. Pataki adopted some of the ad's emotion-packed language in his remarks in Queens yesterday, saying the state needs to remove "those predators" from the streets.
To deliver that message, Mr. Pataki chose the setting of Carmichael's Diner, which is owned by King Carmichael, a prominent black businessman who was shot nine times during a robbery outside his restaurant last week.
The event had been planned before Mr. Carmichael's shooting as a discussion on economic development between Mr. Pataki and local business owners. But Mr. Pataki used it instead to make the case that black New Yorkers are disproportionately affected by crime, and should therefore support his candidacy because of his proposals to eliminate parole and impose longer, determinate sentences for violent felons.
"It is particularly the African-American community that is most vulnerable to the crime and the rampant lawlessness that we see far too often on the streets," he said.
Mr. Pataki also appealed to black voters by saying the Republicans had been guilty of ignoring them over the years.
"It wasn't the fault of the African-American community," Mr. Pataki said. "It was the fault of the Republican Party that didn't reach out, that didn't express our understanding that we're in this together." He added: "This is a new era. This is a new party. We are reaching out."
And yet, even some of Mr. Pataki's black supporters acknowledged that low turnout in the black community on Nov. 8 would probably help him. "There's no doubt about it," said Morris R. Lee, a black Republican district leader from southeast Queens, who said many people may stay home or skip voting for Governor, "which will put our man in office."
Mr. Jackson endorsed Mr. Cuomo yesterday afternoon at a rowdy rally at the Manhattan headquarters of Local 1199 of the hospital workers union. After attesting to Mr. Cuomo's support for the poor and itemizing votes by Mr. Pataki that he said had hurt "people of color, poor people, and workers," Mr. Jackson suggested a new slogan for the Cuomo campaign. "Pataki," he said, virtually spitting out the name. "Just plain tacky."
He added: "If you vote Republican, or don't vote at all, you aid the bird in the bush and the phantom."
Mr. Cuomo said he was grateful for the support, and pledged to fight for funding for health, education and social services programs for disadvantaged youth. "Don't talk to me about, 'We're spending too much money trying to save our children. Let's abandon them,' " he said. "That's a different view. It's a shrunken view. It's a desiccated view."
Mr. Jackson won 37 percent of the vote in the 1988 Presidential primary in New York, finishing second to Michael S. Dukakis. More than 90 percent of the black voters supported him, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
But since the day in 1984 when Mr. Jackson was quoted as calling New York City "Hymietown," the civil rights leader's endorsement has been a mixed blessing in the state, capable of both inspiring black voters and alienating Jews.
Several prominent Jewish Democrats said yesterday, however, that they did not believe Mr. Jackson's backing would steer Jewish voters away from Mr. Cuomo this year, and that those who might be influenced probably would vote against the Governor anyway.
"My guess would be that his ability to pull out the incremental African-American voter far exceeds the extent to which he may remind a Jewish voter that he once was indiscreet privately," said Mark Green, the New York City Public Advocate.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "POLLS: How Blacks Backed Cuomo" shows data of black New York voters in Cuomo's three earlier races for governor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; BLACKS (IN US); CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ELECTION ISSUES VOTERS & VOTING (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PAROLE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MAYORS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MURDER (76%); CITIES (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); LABOR UNIONS (52%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); SACK, KEVIN; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



512 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Skid On Fears Of Inflation

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20

 BODY:
Fears of future inflation, heightened by two new Government reports showing that the economy continues to move ahead briskly, today sent bond prices lower and long-term interest rates up to the brink of 8 percent.
The fall in the bond market pushed the stock market lower, with the Dow dropping 24.89 points to 3,911.15. Traders in both markets were also worried that the dollar fell to a post-World War II closing low against the Japanese yen and a two-year low against the German mark in New York. [Pages D6 and D15]. 
 The declines in the bond and stock markets began this morning when the Commerce Department reported that the nation's home builders broke ground on new homes at the fastest pace of the year in September, and construction in the two preceding months was stronger than initially estimated.
"We're back to the highs of earlier this year," said David Lereah, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Assocition, assessing the unexpectedly vigorous activity in September, when the annual pace for new homes was 1,525,000, a 4.4 percent monthly rise. "There must be a lot of raised eyebrows at the Federal Reserve."
Adding to the worries in the credit market was a report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, which showed manufacturing activity accelerating in the region and the prices of raw materials and finished goods surging to a five-year high. Another factor that sent bond prices lower was a sharp rise in commodity prices, which pushed the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodity futures up nearly 2.75 points to 233.89. The high for the year is 239.72.
The 30-year bond fell 15/32 to 9413/32 , pushing the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, to 7.99 percent, up from 7.89 percent on Wednesday. That was the highest since May 5, 1992, when it was also 7.99 percent. The yield briefly touched 7.997 percent, which rounds off to 8 percent.
Shorter-maturity bill rates were up an average of 9 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Analysts said that the string of economic data this week pointed to unexpectedly robust growth. "I've raised my estimate for third-quarter gross domestic product to 3 percent, from the 2.5 to 3 percent range," said Donald Fine, the chief market strategist at Chase Securities.
The Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates not only by its Nov. 15 policy meeting, analysts said, but could also follow such a move with another rate increase at its December session.
"Now if this type of economic strength continues, we may have another move at the F.O.M.C. meeting on Dec. 20 as well," Mr. Fine said. "It certainly does not appear to be the Fed's last tightenting move."
What most surprised the markets was that rising interest rates seem to have had remarkably little damaging effect so far on the industry that is typically the first casualty: housing.
"This should lead people to revise their thinking about how fast the economy's slowing down," said Robert R. Davis, chief economist for the Savings and Community Bankers of America, referring to the strength in housing.
Permits for future construction, a harbinger of activity in coming months, also jumped. They rose 6.5 percent to a pace that, like starts, was the highest since December.
"Underlying strength in the economy is keeping consumer confidence at a relatively high level," said David W. Berson, top economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, "and this is to a large extent offsetting the rise in mortgage rates."
In a separate tally, the Labor Department reported today that first-time claims for unemployment insurance eased 3,000 last week, to 326,000, and that the four-week average now stands at 321,000. Analysts tended to dimiss this reading, however, because of a big upward revision for the Oct. 8 week, which was the first week of a new quarter when it is more advantageous for some people to file, and because of the Columbus Day holiday.
Analysts said the housing market was buoyed by new enthusiasm for adjustable-rate mortgages, which are now used by more than 40 percent of buyers, or twice the share that prevailed last autumn when long-term interest rates began to climb.
Adjustable-rate mortgages are still available for 6 percent or less, at least for an initial period, and consumers seem confident enough about jobs and incomes to risk the eventual upward adjustment. By contrast, conventional 30-year mortgages averaged 8.68 percent in September, and 8.93 percent last week, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
This compares with a 25-year low of 6.74 percent in October 1993.
Although the September strength was far from uniform -- the West was strongest in starts and permits and the Northeast was weakest -- analysts said they were highly impressed. Of particular note was a jump in permits for apartment construction, a sector that has rebounded smartly after restoration of a tax credit for building units for the poor.
Single-family homes accounted for all of the September gain, however, with groundbreaking in the West running at an annual rate of 386,000, up 21.4 percent from the 318,000 August pace. The Midwest posted a 6 percent gain, to 337,000 from 318,000.
The Northeast's decline was 4.5 percent, to 133,000, while the South, far busier than the other regions, edged down 1.5 percent, to 669,000.
Without seasonal adjustment, builders started 131,600 homes last month, 5.5 percent below the August level, the report also showed.
All but 9,000 of the 88,000 total rise in permits, to a 1,442,000 annual rate, was for buildings with two or more units.
For the first nine months of 1994, starts ran at 15.8 percent of the 1993 pace, while permits were 17.7 percent ahead.
Shipments of mobile homes, today's report also showed, rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 288,000 in August, virtually unchanged from July's 286,000 rate.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Housing Construction" tracks new private housing started and permits authorized during the month, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, since April 1993. (Source: Commerce Department); "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FUTURES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); WORLD WAR II (56%); GERMAN MARK (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR DAVID LEREAH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



513 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Off Sharply As Interest Rates Rise

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market, rising for much of the month because of a steady string of higher earnings reports, plunged yesterday in heavy trading.
Stocks fell as yields came tormentingly close to 8 percent on long bonds, the highest level of corporate borrowing costs in nearly two and a half years. The 30-year Treasury bond closed at 7.99 percent. 
 Evidence of a strong economy -- from a Philadelphia Federal Reserve survey, a report on higher housing starts and increasing commodity prices -- again stampeded traders into bidding bond yields higher.
Good earnings reports from companies like I.B.M. were not enough to offset the surprising decline in North American operations at General Motors, despite the company's overall profitability. The G.M. stock plunge accounted for more than 10 points in the Dow Jones industrial average's drop of nearly 25 points.
The dollar, already weak, fell further when Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury, said the Government had no plans to intervene to support the dollar.
"It was a culmination of events," said Kathleen Camilli, chief economist for Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. "The Philly Fed, housing and commodities prices all contributed. Plus, it's hard for foreigners to buy our bonds when the Treasury Secretary is talking the dollar down."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 24.89 points, to 3,911.15, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 dropped 3.43 points to 466.85. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 2.38 points to 768.24.
Despite the declines, Todd Clark, senior director of equity trading for Mabon Securities, said he was somewhat encouraged by the relatively mild drop in most indexes, especially the Nasdaq. "It held together pretty well, what with the bonds tickling 8 percent," he said.
The drop in stocks came despite strong earnings at I.B.M., which eased 3/8, to 75, at AT&T, which gained 3/8, to 54 1/4, and at Microsoft, up 2, to 59 5/8. On the New York Stock Exchange, two stocks declined for every one that rose, with 702 advancing stocks and 1,523 declining stocks.
The most striking fall of the day was General Motors, which dropped as much as 4 3/8, or nearly 10 percent, in unusually heavy trading. It closed the day at 43 1/8, down 3 3/4, and set a 52-week low. G.M. executives acknowledged that cost-cutting and productivity in North America had been disappointing.
G.M. was also the most active stock, on a volume of more than 16.9 million shares. That was twice the volume of the next most-active stock, Microsoft. Almost a quarter of the daily volume in G.M. came from a single huge trade of more than 4.1 million shares at 43 shortly before 2 P.M. The identity of the seller was not immediately known.
Other big decliners included Sundstrand, an aerospace and electronics company, which fell 5 7/8, to 45 3/4, after it predicted that 1995 earnings would disappoint analysts. Kimberly-Clark fell 5, to 52 3/4, after reporting disappointing quarterly profits.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was above normal with more than 331.4 million shares changing hands, about 15 percent more than this year's average of 288 million shares.
Stock traders are caught between a rock and a hard place. They want to see higher earnings so stock prices will rise. Yet a strong economy scares bond traders, who believe robust economic growth leads to higher inflation.
Yesterday, stock and bond traders were surprised by a sharp jump in the October price indexes of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve survey of businesses, a quick snapshot of business conditions.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 1.78 point to 256.54 and the American Stock Exchange market value index fell 0.5 point to 457.76.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 18 fell, led by G.M. and Procter & Gamble, which fell 1 7/8 to 62 5/8. Of the 500 stocks in the S.&P. 500, 337 fell, led by G.M. and General Electric, which dropped 1 1/4, to 49.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (72%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



514 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Finds Stride in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRAMINGHAM, Mass., Oct. 20

 BODY:
By the standards of an ordinary political autumn, it would not have been an unusual sight. But in an angry election season when Bill Clinton has served more as punching bag than as President, his performance at a town hall rally in New England today, and the acclaim he found there, offered a hint that he had begun to discover his true campaign voice.
The rally, bursting with Democratic fervor, was something of a coming out for Mr. Clinton, who has devoted most of his political energy this fall to raising money at events in hotel ballrooms, largely because so many Democratic candidates would rather not be seen with him in public. 
 Today Mr. Clinton raised not a dime, but he found many admirers.
There on the stage with him were Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the five-term Massachusetts Democrat whose troubled re-election bid was the main reason for the Presidential pilgrimage here; Representative Edward J. Markey, the Democrat who represents this liberal stronghold 20 miles west of Boston, and other Democratic candidates for every office from governor to state representative.
And packed into the hall before them, beneath an American flag the width of the stage, were hundreds of supporters who waved blue Kennedy signs and stamped their feet to the beat of a high school band that spilled out of the building and onto a Main Street crowded with even more well-wishers.
"The fog is beginning to clear," Mr. Clinton declared in a full-throated address, contending that wary voters were starting to recognize just how much Democrats had achieved since he took office. "We've still got a long way to go," he said, "but America's in better shape now than it was 21 months ago."
Since taking to the road on Wednesday, Mr. Clinton has seemed emboldened in part by foreign policy successes that, for now, have eased major worries from North Korea to Iraq. In New York on Wednesday afternoon, with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo at his side, he ticked off those successes as evidence of progress made by his Administration across a broad front. Today, from the town hall steps here, he said American soldiers who helped restore President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power in Haiti had displayed "the best of this country."
But his appearances on the two stops, his most prominent of the campaign season so far, were most of all celebrations of common cause that have become rare among Democratic candidates, who in many parts of the country have chosen to go it alone.
Before today's raucous crowd, Senator Kennedy, who was first elected to his seat in 1962, even put forward a vision that few other Democrats have dared describe. "As soon as we re-elect old Kennedy to the United States Senate," he declared, "we're going to start on the 1996 campaign."
Mr. Clinton is perhaps more popular in Massachusetts than anywhere else in the country. A poll by The Boston Globe last month found his approval rating in the state to be at 60 percent, nearly 20 points above what was then the national figure. That warmth has been largely generated by an exceptionally sharp decline -- to 5.2 percent from 7.9 percent -- in the state's unemployment rate since he took office.
Even so, today's midday rally was open only to ticket-holders, many of whom carried signs and wore buttons that identified them as Democratic faithful. And while the stage was crowded with more Democratic candidates than had been willing to share a platform with Mr. Clinton on any other occasion this fall, White House officials acknowledged that the back-to-back show of public zeal by Governor Cuomo and Senator Kennedy was likely to prove an exception.
Other Democratic senators struggling in their re-election bids this fall, including Jim Sasser of Tennessee and Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania, have demonstrated no interest in inviting Mr. Clinton to campaign for them, apparently out of concern that his lack of popularity will rub off. Others, including Charles S. Robb of Virginia and Dianne Feinstein of California, have proved willing to appear with him only at fund-raising events that are open only to generous donors and limited press coverage.
And although Mr. Clinton will end a weekend campaign trip in Ohio on Monday, his aides have said he will be appearing there only for two Democratic candidates for the House. Joel Hyatt, the Democratic lawyer who is trying to succeed his father-in-law, Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, has apparently signaled that he has no interest in Presidential appearances on his behalf.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Framingham, Mass., the President lauded Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who responded by declaring, "As soon as we re-elect old Kennedy to the United States Senate, we're going to start on the 1996 campaign." (Janet Knott/The Boston Globe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; FRAMINGHAM (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); IRAQ (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (92%); TED KENNEDY (91%); EDWARD J MARKEY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



515 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: A New Quality in Brazil's Exports

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GUARULHOS, Brazil, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Under the 10-acre roof of the Ford Motor Company's car-radio factory here, the modern face of Brazil's newly efficient export industries becomes as apparent as the plant's new Japanese robot, triple-checking electronic circuit boards with a laser's exacting eye.
"Under our quality-control program, we are cutting defects in half every two years," said Luis Carlos A. Oliveira, the quality and productivity manager for the Ford electronics plant in this industrial suburb north of Sao Paulo. The factory, which employs 4,000 workers here in the Sao Paulo industrial belt, ranks among the world's largest manufacturers of car radios and automotive electronics. 
 Four years after Brazil began opening its long-protected industries to international competition, Brazilian companies contrary to some expectations, have not tumbled like dominoes. Instead, they have invested heavily in ratcheting up their productivity to world standards. As a result, the Sao Paulo industrial center, the biggest in Latin America, is emerging as a tough and efficient challenger in world markets.
"Brazil will offer the U.S. a mixed picture in the future," said Jeffrey E. Garten, the United States under secretary of commerce for international trade, after visiting Sao Paulo. "We will have bigger markets, but we will also face more competition."
A yardstick of Brazil's rising industrial efficiency is the jump in the number of companies awarded certificates of quality from the Geneva-based International Organization of Standardization. The organization, known in manufacturing circles by its original initials ISO, has set quality standards for 107 nations since 1947.
Today, 410 Brazilian companies are ISO-certified, compared with just 18 three years ago. Government officials project that 5,500 Brazilian companies will be approved by the end of 1997.
The certificates, first issued in 1987, provide assurance of a company's ability to deliver a product or service that consistently satisfies customer requirements. Sometimes referred to as international visas for quality, the certificates create confidence among business partners, often eliminating the need for long and costly inspections of products received from suppliers.
"It is not an obligation for doing business in Europe, but it is increasingly becoming a market requirement because customers ask for it," said Roger Frost, a spokesman for the standards organization in a telephone interview from Geneva. "Brazil is one of the fastest-growing countries in the world for the number of companies certified."
Elsewhere in Latin America, Mexico has 133 companies certified, Colombia has 25, Venezuela 22, Argentina 17, and Chile 5.
The ratings are important for Brazil because about a quarter of its exports go to countries in the European Union, which adhere to the Geneva organization's criteria, and a further 21 percent to the United States, which demands similar quality.
While some American business executives still cherish hazy notions of Brazil as a coffee-bean exporter, the reality is that coffee now ranks seventh among Brazil's $5.7 billion worth of exports to the United States so far this year -- after shoes, piston engines, telecommunications equipment, refined gasoline, auto parts, and pumps and compressors.
"One of the major barriers to Brazilian exports is quality so companies need an internationally recognized diploma," said Luiz Carlos M. Brandao, who checks ISO standards in Brazil for the American Bureau of Shipping Quality Evaluations, a Houston-based auditor. He said the number of Brazilian companies asking to be monitored have risen to 210 from 3 in 1992.
The competition for quality has become so fierce that "the best business in Brazil is to become an industrial quality consultant," said Ailton Barcelos Fernandes, executive secretary of Brazil's Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, who reported that the country's industrial productivity jumped 18 percent last year over that of 1992.
Interest in modernizing business practices has become so widespread that Brazilian bookstores last year sold 1.5 million Portuguese-language copies of 300 business-administration manuals. Only 10 titles were available two decades ago.
"Brazilian industry has made a productivity leap of 30 percent since 1990," said Hermann J. Wever, president of Grupo Siemens, the Brazilian subsidiary of the German multinational. In the last four years, the Siemens subsidiary, all nine of whose Brazilian factories are certified by the Geneva standards organization, quadrupled its exports, to $80 million.
In July, the McKinsey Global Institute released a study of productivity in steel, banking, telecommunications and processed food in Latin America's five largest economic powers -- Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela. Productivity levels averaged slightly less than half of United States levels, but Brazil came out on top, with productivity averaging 26 percent higher than that of Mexico, the region's next largest economy.
Brazil's steel industry, the biggest in Latin America, has doubled its productivity since 1990, attaining annual production of 315 tons a worker, which is close to Japanese levels.
At Caterpillar's Brazilian subsidiary, a six-year, $300 million investment has cut the average assembly time for a tractor to three days from five.
At Marcopolo, the world's third-largest bus manufacturer, productivity tripled since 1987 at its plant in southern Brazil.
"People have stopped holding their noses at Brazilian products," said Luis Jimenez Roman, industrial manager of the Brazilian subsidiary of the American company Stanley Tools, another certificate holder.
"When we started exporting five years ago, at least half of our products had to go out without the label 'Made in Brazil,' Mr. Roman said, because customers did not want the origin identified. Now, he said, only one Chilean client wanted the label left off.
The cumulative effect of this industrial efficiency drive has shown up in Brazil's trade surplus, which is the world's third largest after those of Japan and Germany. Brazil is expected to register a $13 billion surplus on a record $43 billion in exports this year, despite an overvalued currency and imports surging 17 percent.
By contrast, Latin America as a whole is recording its third consecutive trade deficit, jumping this year to $21 billion. Of Latin American non-oil exporters, only Brazil and Chile will show trade surpluses this year.
Looking to the future, economists predict that Brazil will become an increasingly muscular player in the international trading arena.
Anticipating continued strong domestic sales as well as exports, Brazil's auto makers plan to increase car production to 3 million in 1996 from 1.4 million last year.
Brazilian companies also find themselves in a better position to invest for overseas competition because their debt loads average one-third of those carried by their United States and Japanese competitors.
As a result, manufacturers are looking beyond their traditional markets. "We are now well situated in Europe and the United States, and are moving into South Korea," said Luiz Fernando Antonio, international operations director for the Ford plant, which now ships 40,000 electronic units a day. "The ISO has been a key to open new doors."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Higher Standards Breed Success" lists the number of certificates of quality (ISO certificates) awarded by the Geneva-based International Organization of Standardization to companies in selected countries, and Brazil's total exports and imports. The certificates give assurance that a company's products meet internationally recognized standards for consistent quality. (Source: Banco do Brazil, Brazil's Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF STANDARDIZATION; GARTEN, JEFFREY E (UNDER SEC); EUROPEAN UNION FORD MOTOR CO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF STANDARDIZATION; GARTEN, JEFFREY E (UNDER SEC); EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; SAO PAULO (BRAZIL); JAPAN; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; PRODUCTIVITY ; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LASERS (72%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); TRENDS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



516 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Officials Give Up Opposition To Company to Run Schools

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON 

 BODY:
Hartford city officials agreed this week to drop their opposition to hiring a private company to manage the city's public schools, even as test scores released by Baltimore officials raised questions about the company's performance in schools it manages there.
The Hartford Board of Education voted on Oct. 3 to hire the company, Education Alternatives Inc. of Minneapolis, even though the city's Corporation Counsel refused to sign the contract, saying it gave the company too much control over the city's budget. 
 But on Wednesday, a legal challenge to the contract was averted when City Council members and city lawyers and finance officials reached agreement with the school board on revisions.
The revisions strengthen oversight of the company's spending of the city's $171 million education budget, plus $29 million in grants, and eliminate a provision calling on the city to increase the budget each year by an amount at least equal to inflation.
One goal of Hartford in hiring Education Alternatives is to improve the performance of students on Connecticut's standardized tests, which rank the city's school system last in the state.
But board members said they were not concerned by the release of test scores in Baltimore that show overall averages on math and reading tests declining in the nine schools managed by the company there, while the overall averages for other schools rose.
"Hartford is not Baltimore," said Kathy Evans, who led the school board's negotiations with the company. "Education Alternatives has a different role in Hartford. We have our own strategic plan that it will implement."
In June, Baltimore officials released 1993 test results for the company's schools showing improvement. But this week, in releasing results for the entire school system, they said the earlier figures were wrong.
Philip E. Geiger, divisional president of Education Alternatives, said the company was investigating the discrepancy. "We have initiated a complete review of those test scores -- student by student -- and the summary of this review will be fully disclosed as soon as possible," he said.
Education Alternatives has been working in the Baltimore schools since 1992. Reports of the decline in test scores drove down the company's stock more than $2 a share, 10 percent of its value, on Tuesday. The stock closed yesterday at $20 a share, up $1.375, in Nasdaq trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EAIN (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (84%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION ALTERNATIVES INC TESSERACT GROUP INC (84%); HARTFORD BOARD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION ALTERNATIVES INC HARTFORD BOARD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS (IN US); PRIVATIZATION CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAWYERS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



517 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Railroad stocks, it seems, are no longer run-of-the-mill.

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
THESE are heady times for mergers and acquisitions specialists with clients in the railroad industry. The Union Pacific Corporation is trying to elbow in on Burlington Northern Inc.'s plans to merge with the Santa Fe Pacific Corporation; the Illinois Central Corporation is proposing to acquire the Kansas City Southern Railway, and a steady stream of smaller consolidations is in the works.
In most other industries, the high level of merger activity would have arbitragers and others who love to play the takeover scene salivating. But railroad marriages often take years to win regulatory approval. The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe, for example, expect clearance to merge in the spring of 1996, if everything goes smoothly. 
 Not surprisingly, speculators who like quick returns generally stay away from the sector, and the merger activity has done little to lift railroad stocks. Indeed, so far this year the group is down 12.5 percent, apparently because of fears that rising interest rates portend an economic slowdown that will depress earnings.
The Wall Street consensus, though, is that investors are too bearish. Not only are there many buy recommendations now on the Street, but also not a single sell-side analyst following the industry is recommending that any of the companies be sold, according to Zacks Investment Research Inc., a Chicago-based firm that tracks Wall Street's views of different stocks.
Thomas Galvin, who follows the industry for C. J. Lawrence Deutsche Bank Securities, expects most railroad stocks to rise 20 to 25 percent over the next year to 18 months as investors start to recognize the basic improvement in the industry's competitive position. The stocks have been shortsightedly lumped with the other cyclical groups that are vulnerable to fears that an economic recovery is nearing its peak, Mr. Galvin said.
"The whole group is undervalued," agreed Anthony Hatch, who follows railroads for Paine Webber. "The industry is in a truly rare situation where its biggest problems are all related to growth in volume."
Long-term contracts with key shippers and competition from other forms of transportation make it hard for railroads to raise prices. Since deregulation in the early 1980's, the key to raising profits has been to cut costs and smoothly move as much traffic as possible. When demand climbs too quickly, though, delays mount. That limits the total volume getting through the system and piles on expenses for overtime.
As a prime example, Mr. Hatch cited Conrail Inc., the dominant carrier in the Northeast. He estimated that capacity problems were shaving at least a percentage point off its operating margins this year. That translates to a loss of $20 million in net income, or between 22 cents and 25 cents a share. Mr. Hatch expects earnings during the fourth quarter and next year to demonstrate that Conrail has sorted out many of the problems.
Other railroads with capacity problems are the Chicago & North Western, which has more coal traffic out of the Powder River Basin in Wyoming than it can handle, and the Union Pacific, which wants to acquire Santa Fe to help overcome bottlenecks on its transcontinental route through Nebraska to California and the Northwest.
One positive result of the strong demand on key routes and growth in intermodal traffic -- in which truckloads are carried long distances on trains -- is that railroads are beginning to get actual price increases for some services, albeit still below the rate of inflation. "We are seeing the first broad-based test of whether rates can actually rise after deregulation," Mr. Hatch said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (93%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (93%); BNSF RAILWAY CO (92%); SANTA FE PACIFIC CORP (91%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (91%); ILLINOIS CENTRAL CORP (72%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (67%); CONRAIL INC (62%); KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS AND BONDS RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); MERGERS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BONDS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J ANTHONY HATCH (85%); THOMAS GALVIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



518 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: A Premature Prize for Mideast Peace?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Prize to Encourage Mideast Peace" (editorial, Oct. 15), supporting the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres and Yasir Arafat, notes that in 1973 the prize was awarded to Henry Kissinger and Le Duc Tho, who had also engaged in past warfare. But Le Duc Tho refused the prize, on the ground that the Vietnam war had not yet ended, United States troops were still occupying his country, and killing by both sides was continuing. It might be fitting for this year's recipients also to refuse the honor. 
 Although Israel and the major Arab countries have made strides to end hostility, the attack by Islamic militants that killed 20 Israelis in Tel Aviv (front page, Oct. 20) reminds us that for most Palestinians and Israelis there is still no peace.
The people of Gaza are shut off by an electronic fence, whose gates are controlled by Israel. Some 4,000 Israeli settlers occupy one-third of the land, while 850,000 Palestinians are crowded into the rest, suffering from 50 percent unemployment because most who worked as day laborers in Israel are now cut off from jobs.
Thousands of Palestinians remain in Israeli prisons, where the torture of suspects continues. Israel is building new settlements in East Jerusalem and its western suburbs, changing the demography of what has for centuries been the center of Palestinian society and culture.
Although the Declaration of Principles agreed to by Israel and the Palestinians in Oslo provided for negotiations on Jerusalem's final status, Israeli leaders insist the city must remain under Israeli control.
Israeli troops occupy all but a tiny portion of the West Bank, and for the Palestinians, the rigors of military occupation have not eased.
Even before the killing of Cpl. Nahshon Waxman, the peace process was at standstill. The elections the Oslo agreement calls for have been postponed because Mr. Rabin insists that only a small executive council, not a legislative body, may be elected and that peace agreement opponents may not be candidates.
Mr. Arafat has rightly objected, saying that democratic government requires a representative legislature and a separation of powers, not simply an executive that rules by fiat.
Mr. Rabin's demands are a recipe for civil war, not peace. They also reflect a double standard, since he would not exclude from Israeli elections the extremists who call him a traitor for dealing with the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Until the peace prize ceases to be a piece of paper and results in justice for Palestinians, there will be no security for the people of Israel, and the honor will remain a hollow one.
 
RACHELLE MARSHALL
Stanford, Calif., Oct. 20, 1994
The writer is a member, Mideast subcommittee, American Friends Service Committee regional office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); LAYOFFS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: MARSHALL, RACHELLE; ARAFAT, YASIR; RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); PERES, SHIMON (MIN) SHIMON PERES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



519 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Hudson Casts New Light on Its Red-Light Past

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HUDSON, N.Y., Oct. 19

 BODY:
This small city on the banks of the Hudson River is casting a nostalgic eye back to its bawdy history, when it was widely known as "the little town with the big red-light district."
Other cities organize tours of their historic districts or gardens, but on Saturday, Hudson is focusing on self-guided tours of a street once lined with houses of ill repute. 
 The buildings along Columbia Street, now mostly private homes, will not be open to the public. From the outside, they look like ordinary houses, with no signs of their former use.
The occasion for the tours is a publication party for a book by Bruce Edward Hall called "Diamond Street," as Columbia Street was once known. It is a history of the prostitution and the underworld of gambling and gangsters that flourished alongside the respectable merchants and residents of the city until a state police crackdown in 1950.
Hudson was organized in 1783 by Quakers from Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard who needed an inland port for their whaling ships. Over the city's early years, they tolerated grog shops and bawdy houses for the transient trade of sailors and wagon drivers.
At its height, in the 1920's and 1930's, when Diamond Street was renamed Columbia Street, the main street of prostitution had 15 brothels, with a total of 50 to 75 prostitutes. The going rate in those days was $2 for 20 minutes with a prostitute.
At that time and even later, Hudson had a wide reputation as a center of vice. Mayor John Scalera remembers that when he was a soldier at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri, other soldiers there knew of Hudson. The Columbia County District Attorney, Paul Czajka, said that when he was in the Army in Europe, everybody knew of Hudson's reputation as a red-light city.
Herbert Weintraub, a retired merchant, said, "When my sister went off to the University of Michigan, my father told her to say she was from Albany, not Hudson, because of the city's reputation."
Mr. Weintraub, who was born and raised in Hudson and who operated a paint store on Warren Street, the main business street of Hudson, said he had fond memories of old Hudson and the red-light district.
"It was a marvelous cottage industry," Mr. Weintraub said. "The girls were customers as well as prostitutes. Hudson was prosperous in those days."
Mr. Weintraub's nostalgia was shared by many longtime residents, who said the prostitutes helped the city' economy through purchases at drugstores, dress shops, jewelry stores and beauty parlors.
Stephen Durham, who grew up in Hudson and later bought his house on Columbia Street from Mae Gordon, a former madam, in 1972, said: "Things were better in those days. There was a lot of money circulating."
As a boy, Seymour Silverman delivered milk from his parents' pasteurizing plant on Columbia Street to many brothels.
"I always remember them with great fondness," said Mr. Silverman, who now lives in Westchester County. "They were very kind. They were a group unto themselves. They kept their houses neat and orderly and caused no trouble at all."
Prostitution flourished in Hudson, along with gambling and bootlegging, because generations of local police officers and public officials either averted their eyes or were corrupt, said Mr. Hall, whose book was published by Black Dome Press.
"Hudson was a schizophrenic city then," he said. "It was a virtual shopping center of vice while at the same time respectable citizens held their church suppers, lived and worked and ignored the vice around them."
The era of organized prostitution ended in 1950 when state troopers, without informing the local police, raided the brothels and arrested many madams, who never came back.
Today, there are no houses of prostitution here, local officials say, but there are frequent arrests of streetwalkers.
"Our major crime problem in Hudson now is criminal mischief and minor larceny," Mayor Scalera said.
But Mr. Czajka, the District Attorney, who has his office here, thinks Hudson has a more serious crime problem.
"My theory is that the city of Hudson has an institutional corruption history," he said. "In the old days, it was gambling and prostitution, today it is gambling and drugs. The biggest crime problem in the city arises from drugs."
Hudson today has a population of 7,800, down from 11,000 at its height. It remains a divided city, said Mr. Hall, with wealthy weekenders from New York City, 120 miles to the south, and a permanent local population of working men and women and merchants.
"The local residents think the book and the history are a riot," he said. "The weekenders are huffy about it. They don't want anybody to touch their image of Hudson as a Currier and Ives village, which it is not. They want Hudson to be known for its antique shops and boutiques."
"I don't think the book runs down Hudson; rather, it enriches its history. It's the story of desperate women who had to survive, who had no other way of making a living. Those were the days before welfare and unemployment insurance. Some of those women got offers of money for sex and they decided that shoes for their children were more important than virtue."
Mr. Hall, a 40-year-old writer with an apartment in New York City and a house in Hudson, will be at the book signing on Saturday, starting at 1 P.M. at the Hudson Opera House, 327 Warren Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Durham, who grew up in Hudson, N.Y., working on a porch roof of his house, which he bought in 1972 from Mae Gordon, a former madam. "Things were better in those days," Mr. Durham said of his town in the days of brothels. "There was a lot of money circulating." (Susan Harris for The New York Times); A madam and three employees, their eyes obscured, in Hudson in 1950, a month before the state police closed the city's brothels. (From "Diamond Street" by Bruce Edward Hall/Black Dome Press)
 
Map of New York showing location of Hudson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; PROSTITUTION PROSTITUTION (90%); CITIES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (60%); WHALING (52%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD; HALL, BRUCE EDWARD HERBERT WEINTRAUB (68%); BRUCE EDWARD HALL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



520 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: A Lilco Takeover Offers Relief to Long Islanders

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's proposal to purchase the Long Island Lighting Company (news article, Oct. 14) will give much-needed relief to Long Island ratepayers, who pay the country's highest rates, while saving Lilco from bankruptcy, and at no cost to New York State taxpayers. 
 Public power is one business in which Federal and municipal governments have excelled, starting with the Tennessee Valley Authority and the New York Power Authority, both established by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930's.
Governor Cuomo wisely chose the Power Authority to run Lilco. David Freeman, its president, has successfully run four large public utility systems, including T.V.A. Lilco customers would benefit from Mr. Freeman's leadership, as well as from avoiding payment for Lilco's high debt service, taxes and profits.
Lilco's $5 billion debt is the largest per kilowatt hour for any utility in the world. The debt is sinking the company. Resulting high rates are hurting citizens and businesses. The company, to achieve false economies, is even canceling conservation programs that have saved customers millions of dollars and have enabled businesses to stay on Long Island.
 
RICHARD L. OTTINGER
White Plains, Oct. 16, 1994
The writer, acting dean of Pace University Law School, is a former member of Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ELECTION ISSUES; RATES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (56%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); OTTINGER, RICHARD L DAVID FREEMAN (74%); MARIO M CUOMO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



521 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Hits Low Against Yen With More Declines Feared

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Oct. 21

 BODY:
The dollar continued its decline today, touching a record low, as traders reacted to renewed fears of inflation in the United States and comments by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen that Washington had no immediate plans to support the currency.
The dollar briefly fell to 96.55 Japanese yen this morning, surpassing the 96.60 yen intraday low reached on July 12. 
 The dollar also hit new two-year lows against the German mark and British pound.
Intervention by the Bank of Japan brought the dollar back up to about 96.82 yen this afternoon, but traders said there was still pressure to send the dollar lower.
"Everybody is selling the dollar," said a currency trader at the Bank of America branch in Tokyo. "U.S. funds are selling aggressively."
Currency traders were unnerved after Mr. Bentsen was quoted on Thursday as saying, "We have no plans to intervene" in the market to support the dollar.
Even before Mr. Bentsen's statements, the dollar came under pressure after the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia released a monthly report on manufacturing that showed a pickup in inflation. The report sent Treasury bonds lower, and the dollar followed.
In New York on Thursday, the dollar closed at a record low of 97.07 yen, down from 97.35 yen.
A sharp rise of the yen once again raised fears that Japan's export-oriented companies will become less competitive, impairing the recovery from a three-year economic slump.
Government officials here expressed concern about the rise of the yen and said they would watch the situation. But except for intervention in the currency markets by the central bank, there was nothing the Government seemed prepared to do.
The dollar had climbed to more than 100 yen earlier this month when the United States and Japan reached trade agreements to open Japan's markets for insurance, glass, medical and telecommunications equipment. But the gain proved to be short-lived.
Figures released this week, showing that Japan's trade surplus with the United States continues to rise, helped drive up the yen against the dollar. Moreover, the dollar's drop against the German mark has weakened it against the yen.
In Tokyo this afternoon, the dollar was also quoted at 1.491 marks, after falling in New York on Thursday to 1.4915 marks, from 1.5015 marks.
And the British pound rose today to $1.632 after closing in New York at $1.6315, up from $1.6232 Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN ; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BONDS (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); BANK BRANCHES (70%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994



522 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: HEALTH CARE;
Despite Omens, Health Care Drops From Campaign Stage

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Health care legislation, which dominated Capitol Hill for most of the year, is playing only a tiny role in this year's Congressional elections.
A few candidates discuss the issue in campaign appearances, usually if they played major roles in the unsuccessful effort to get a bill passed, and occasionally if their opponents did. 
 But right now there appears to be only one television advertisement on the air committing a candidate to fight for national health insurance legislation next year. And that comes from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has been fighting for such legislation since 1970.
The issue had loomed as potentially decisive in this year's elections. But just as it proved too complicated for Congress to vote on, political consultants seem to think it is too complex for the electorate to measure. With other issues dominating the airwaves because they seem easier to draw contrasts with, it does not seem that either Democrats or Republicans are being blamed for legislative failure on health care.
Representative Vic Fazio of California, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, told his colleagues in June that "health care is the make-or-break issue, the centerpiece of Congressional activity," and a vital tool for the election. But Mr. Fazio conceded this week that he had been proved wrong, that health care was not crucial this fall because "we never got the message out."
The Democratic hope was that passing health care legislation would be popular with voters, and that even if legislation was defeated or filibustered, the party could attack Republicans as obstructionists. But Democrats never united behind a plan of their own and could not force a confrontation.
William Kristol, the Republican analyst who spent the spring and summer telling Republicans not to worry about appearing as "obstructionists," said, "The issue is so far off the map that our guys are not being pressed on what they are for." While the public used to prefer Democrats over Republicans on health care by a wide margin, Mr. Kristol said the Clinton plan had failed so badly that it "took off the table probably the Democrats' best issue."
Richard B. Wirthlin, a Republican pollster, said today that his surveys showed that health care legislation remained a salient issue, cited as the most important problem by 11 percent of the public. But he said it was not being talked about much in this campaign.
"Politics is a game of differentiating yourself from your opponent," Mr. Wirthlin said. "The issue became so convoluted and mixed in the closing days of Congress that it's hard to draw a clear-cut line" between candidates.
For a few members of Congress, that line is clear. Senator Harris Wofford, the Pennsylvania Democrat who brought the issue to political center stage when he won a special election in 1991, has used a television advertisement that says: "Harris Wofford forced health care to the top of the nation's agenda. It is not being ignored any more."
And while Mr. Wofford's Republican opponent, Representative Rick Santorum, labels him a failure for supporting a flawed and unsuccessful Clinton proposal, Mr. Wofford hits back by saying Mr. Santorum wants to cut Medicare and offer the elderly nothing in return.
One of the few Republican candidates who brings up this year's health care experience in a positive way is Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island. He headed a bipartisan group of moderates who tried to forge a compromise bill that would have used subsidies and changes in insurance law to expand coverage without actually requiring individuals or employers to buy it.
The effort stalled in the face of a threatened Republican filibuster, but Mr. Chafee has told voters that it is "an example of the Senate working at its best, a bipartisan coalition working hard to find common ground."
Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat in a close race for re-election, also cites her work in that coalition, stressing its thwarted hopes for cooperation. But William A. Carrick, the Los Angeles consultant who is producing Ms. Feinstein's television commercials, said he did not use the issue on the air because the combination of "crime, the economy and immigration suffocates everything else."
The fact that neither the House nor the Senate even voted on health care makes it harder to label an incumbent. But Representatives Pat Williams of Montana and Peter Hoagland of Nebraska, Democrats who supported variants of the Clinton legislation in House committees, are targets of similar advertisements accusing them of trying to "socialize our health care industry."
Mr. Kennedy's opponent, Mitt Romney, fired a comparable blast a few weeks ago, with an advertisement that maintained that he and the Senator both wanted every American to have insurance, but "I want to fix the existing system with specific reforms, not a big government takeover."
Mr. Romney, a venture capitalist, said the biggest difference between him and Mr. Kennedy was that "I don't want the Federal Government making decisions for my family and yours."
Mr. Kennedy's advertisement, which parallels the pledges he makes on the stump, promises, "If he is re-elected, he will lead the fight for health insurance for all." It criticizes Mr. Romney for not providing health insurance for his workers and opposing any requirement that employers buy coverage, and it concludes with a warning about Mr. Romney: "In the Senate, he would be one more vote for the Republicans trying to block health care."
Massachusetts is a state where politicians believe that voters care about health care legislation. For instance, Representative Peter I. Blute of Shrewsbury, one of the most endangered Republican freshmen in the country, has a radio spot that depicts him as an agent of change, "keeping the heat on Congress" to make "necessary improvements" in health care, but without sacrificing quality or choice.
As the Congressional debate on health care legislation ground to a halt last month, many Republicans urged delay. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, said, "The American people will speak again on Nov. 8, and they will give us further guidance as to whether we should pursue health care reform that calls for more government control, or reform that preserves quality, choice and jobs, and addresses issues of choice."
But with health care hardly heard on the airwaves or the hustings, that guidance will probably amount to whatever the winners in November think it should say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS ; VOTER BEHAVIOR; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM ; WIRTHLIN, RICHARD B; FAZIO, VIC (REPR) TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



523 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
CLINTON TO VISIT SYRIA
President Clinton said that he will visit Syria, even though he might be criticized for visiting a nation accused of sponsoring terrorism, in the hope of prodding it toward peace with Israel. 1
 

CLINTON'S NEW FOREIGN AGENDA
News analysis: By turning his attention to foreign policy, President Clinton has shown his ability to deal with crisis and has shed his image of being disinterested in the world beyond American borders. 7
 
BRITAIN FORESEES I.R.A. TALKS
Britain said that it accepted the Irish Republican Army's cease-fire as genuine and that it would hold exploratory talks with the I.R.A. before the end of the year if the peace holds. 1
 
GOLF GREENS DEFORESTING ASIA
The booming economies of Asia are creating the fastest-growing market in the world for golf, and the golf courses to support this trend are tearing up some of the last stretches of pristine wilderness. 3
 
PACT SIGNED WITH NORTH KOREA
The United States and North Korea signed the agreement that is designed to end the dispute over North Korea's nuclear program, but many details were kept secret. 5
 
ISRAEL-LEBANON BORDER TENSE
Guerrillas in southern Lebanon fired on Israeli villages, after Israel attacked their positions in Lebanon, but most Israelis' attention remained riveted on the site of the fatal bus attack in Tel Aviv. 7
 
CHAOS IN LIBERIA
Five years of civil war has left little in Liberia untouched by fighting, with shifting factions and little protection for civilians, returning the country to more of a tribal caldron than a modern state. 4
 
CLOSE-UP ON SOWETO
Soweto journal: A tour of South Africa's best-known township shows efforts to build businesses, neat homes and a bit of traditional medicine, as well as signs of the violence for which it was known. 4
 
RISE OF A RUSSIAN OIL GIANT
Lukoil, Russia's biggest oil producer, is trying to elbow its way into the ranks of international oil giants, seeking deals outside Russia, with help from Moscow. 39
 
The death toll in the bridge collapse in Seoul was at least 32. 5
 
National 8-11
 
HEALTH CARE FADES AS ISSUE
After dominating Capitol Hill for much of the year and after predictions that it would also dominate fall election campaigns, health care legislation is playing only a tiny role in the Congressional elections. 1
 
OPPOSING IMMIGRANT MEASURE
Saying it might cost her the election, Senator Dianne Feinstein came out against a California ballot measure to bar illegal aliens from receiving most public services. 1
 
CLINTON GOES ON ATTACK
Speaking at a news conference, President Clinton directed his sharpest jabs of the fall campaign at the Republican Party, particularly at Oliver L. North and Representative Newt Gingrich. 9
Senator Robb of Virginia got an important endorsement. 9
 
The candidates for governor of Texas met for their only debate. 10
 
STRUGGLING TO CONTAIN OIL SPILL
Cleanup crews in Texas fought to contain an oil spill caused by the rupture of at least two pipelines. Thousands of gallons of oil have spilled east of Houston. 8
 
REPORTERS RETURN TO COURT
Reversing an order from the day before, Judge Lance Ito allowed reporters back into his courtroom to cover the O. J. Simpson trial. 8
 
SENTENCE IN AMES CASE
The wife of Aldrich H. Ames, the confessed spy for Moscow, was sentenced to 63 months in prison. The sentence was in keeping with a plea bargain earlier this year. 10
 
RADIATION TEST REPORT
A Presidential panel said the number of human radiation experiments performed by the Government during the cold war was probably many times more than previously made public. 10
 
Illinois took financial control of a troubled school district. 10
 
Beliefs: Letting voters decide the legality of assisted suicide. 11
 
A man convicted of rape was freed after DNA tests cleared him. 8
 
The N.A.A.C.P. settled a lawsuit by its dismissed director. 10
 
Metro Digest 25
 
VOICES ON THE CAMPAIGN
In New York's race for governor, more women than men in one community said they intended to vote for Gov. Mario M.Cuomo; and more men said they had made up their minds to vote for the challenger, George Pataki. 1
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-19
 
More "Nunsense."13
 
Dance: Netherlands Dance Theater. 13
 
Sports 30-34
 
FOOTBALLS RAW, NOT BAKED
Before the National Football League warned them, some place-kickers used to bake footballs or put in them dryers in order to make them easier to kick. 1
 
Football: Freeze option leads to success at Syracuse. 31
 
Obituaries 11-12
 
Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach, songwriter. 11
 
Francis Steegmuller, biographer. 11
 
Burt Lancaster, actor. 12
 
Business Digest 39
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
The police merger, act III.
 
Again, killing in Rwanda.
 
She strays, he shoots . . .
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Same old math.
 
Russell Baker: God's angry land.
 
Willie Morris: The air down there.
 
Steven R. Rivkin: More power to the utilities.
 
Bridge 18
 
Chronicle 24
 
Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (53%); LKOD (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%); 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (53%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); GOLF (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (74%); TRENDS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); CIVIL WAR (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); BALLOTS (60%); REFERENDUMS (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); WILDERNESS (53%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



524 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 General Motors stock continued to slide, after a week of setbacks for the company including a wider-than-expected loss in North America. G.M. shares have fallen 12 percent in two days. [39.] 
 A $1 billion deal to sell Home Interiors and Gifts collapsed. Home Interiors, a family-owned company, decided not to sell a 51 percent stake to the Hicks, Muse investment firm. [39.]
 Advanced Micro Devices claimed a victory in its long-running patent infringement battle with Intel. Although a preliminary injunction was brought against Advanced Micro, it still allows the company to ship existing Intel clone chips through Jan. 15, sparing Advanced Micro a financial penalty for the rest of 1994. [39.]
 The architect of McCaw Cellular will not join AT&T's board. Craig O. McCaw said he feared his future business ventures might pose a conflict of interest if he were an AT&T director. [41.]
 California Energy raised its hostile takeover bid for a geothermal power competitor, Magma Power, to $924 million. The deal would create the largest geothermal power company. [41.]
 CMS Energy will acquire a unit of Niagara Mohawk for more than $200 million. The acquisition would make CMS the third-largest independent power producer in the country. [41.]
 The former chief executive of B.C.C.I. pleaded not guilty to New York State charges that he was a key figure in the largest fraud in international banking history. [41.]
 Mobil said earnings fell 24.5 percent in the quarter, hurt by lower prices for natural gas and weak refining margins. [48.]
 
The Economy
 Bumper crops have sent prices tumbling, leaving some farmers like David Rothermel of Illinois worried about profits and feeling a need to make the most of every bushel. [39.]
 
International
 Lukoil, Russia's biggest oil producer, is trying to elbow its way into the ranks of international oil giants, seeking deals abroad. Lukoil has benefited from Russian foreign policy and its own efforts to become a more market-oriented company. [39.]
 
Markets
 General Motors led blue-chip stocks lower. Recoveries in bonds and the dollar failed to bolster prices. The Dow fell 19.85 points, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96 points. [40.]
 The dollar steadied after Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said the United States was prepared to support the currency. The dollar had earlier fallen to a postwar low against the yen and to new two-year lows against the mark and the pound. [49.]
 Gasoline prices retreated as fears eased that a pipeline explosion would diminish supplies. Silver and coffee prices also fell. [49.]
 Treasury prices recovered a bit after a three-day selloff. Bonds were lifted by a stabilizing dollar. [50.]
 
Your Money
 Banks and other financial companies are turning to arbitration. Increasingly, the fine print in contracts states that disputes must be settled through arbitration, and there is a lively debate about who are the real winners and losers. [37.]
 Will rates keep rising? The experts agree that short-term rates will rise. But there is little agreement on long-term rates. [37.]
 Homeowners who have adjustable mortgages are bracing for bigger payments as interest rates climb. Although the potential pain is limited by annual and lifetime caps on loan rates, such increases can make a sizable dent in a household budget. [38.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (94%); AMD (NYSE) (72%); AMD (FRA) (72%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); CMS (NYSE) (55%); LKOH (RTS) (53%); LKOD (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS (58%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (94%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (72%); HOME INTERIORS & GIFTS INC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); CMS ENERGY CORP (55%); OAO LUKOIL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (86%); CURRENCIES (85%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); NATURAL GAS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); COFFEE MARKETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); POWER PLANTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); BOND MARKETS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); COFFEE (61%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (61%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (56%); PATENTS (56%); INJUNCTIONS (55%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (51%); 

PERSON: CRAIG O MCCAW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



525 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Steel Imports Up 67% in '94

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
United States steel imports rose 67 percent in the first eight months of the year, setting a record for the period, as demand fed by the strong economy outstripped the production capacity of American steelmakers.
Imports soared to 19.17 million tons from 11.48 million in the first eight months of 1993, the American Iron and Steel Institute said. 
 Continuing a yearlong trend, August imports rose almost 64 percent, to 2.6 million tons, from 1.6 million a year earlier.
Steel imports by the end of the year will easily surpass the total of 19.5 million tons in 1993, when imports reached their highest level since 1988, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: STEEL INSTITUTE (56%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (58%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (58%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TRENDS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



526 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: University Announces Tuition Cut

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Trying to stop the drain of students to lower-cost state colleges, the University of Rochester will announce today that it is reducing tuition by $5,000 a year for state residents.
The move, which marks the first time a leading private university has cut tuition to compete against state schools, is an acknowledgement that even well-regarded educational institutions are in danger of pricing themselves out of the market. 
 The price cut addresses a longstanding problem for private colleges and universities: the need to compete with high-quality state systems of higher education. It now costs a Rochester student $26,225 a year for tuition, room, board, transportation and fees. At New York state universities of comparable quality, that cost is about $9,500.
"A lot of this has to do with competition," said Thomas H. Jackson, the incoming president of the university, who plans to announce the plan at his installation today.
Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, said that although it is difficult to determine whether others will follow suit, "at the minimum, this move will become a subject of serious discussion as educators try to stabilize an absolute crisis."
The discount, approved by the trustees on Thursday, will be available to New York State high school students and the children of Rochester alumni who enroll as freshmen in the fall of 1995. Students who qualify for financial assistance will continue to receive additional sums depending on their circumstances, the university said. Currently enrolled students will not be eligible.
University officials acknowledged that even with the discount, Rochester will still cost more than twice as much as its major competitor, the State University of New York, which has 23 campuses.
"We're aware of the differential," Mr. Jackson said. "But we think that it's one our students can manage if they think they can get a better quality of education at Rochester. They can certainly manage a $10,000 differential better than they could a $15,000 one."
Robert Zemsky, a professor of education and director of the Institute for Research on Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania, called the plan "a good move."
He added: "You will see a number of institutions looking at this because it makes the bargaining that goes on about actual costs much less confusing to both the institutions and the students."
As the cost of a four-year education at a top-tier institution soared up to and then last year breached the $100,000 mark, some of these schools have came close to pricing themselves "out of the market," as Mr. Jackson said. The tuition increases have largely outpaced inflation.
To cope with the rising costs, many students and their families have plunged into debt. For example, Stanford University reports that its students borrowed $8 million in the first half of the 1993-94 academic year, $2.5 million more than was borrowed in all of 1992-93.
Educators have also noticed a phenomenon they are calling "middle income melt," in which students who would almost certainly have gone to private colleges and universities in previous years choose instead to attend much less expensive public institutions.
In 1993, total annual college costs for in-state students at publicly supported institutions ranged from $11,726 for the University of Vermont to $5,504 at the University of North Carolina.
Private colleges have tried to fight this competition by channeling large sums of money into their financial aid programs. Sixty-six percent of the students at the University of Rochester, for example, are receiving financial aid, and the average grant is $12,000.
Other institutions have seized on the idea of cutting costs by reducing the amount of time it takes to earn a degree.
Oberlin College in Ohio, for instance, now offers a three-year degree program at a saving of almost 25 percent of college costs. Albertus Magnus College, a small institution in New Haven, recently inaugurated a two-and-two-thirds-year degree program that has attracted 80 percent of the entering freshmen.
Because of its high cost, educators say, Rochester's initiative is likely to be adopted chiefly by well-endowed colleges and universities. For example, the University of Rochester, which has a relatively healthy endowment of $650 million, should have considerable freedom to tap the interest from that investment to funnel money into the grant program. Kenyon College in Ohio, which has an endowment of only $45 million, would have considerably less ability to start such a program.
The University of Rochester, founded in 1850, has 5,000 full-time undergraduates and 2,700 full-time graduate students.
Mr. Jackson thinks the grant program is well suited to the University of Rochester. "We're much more successful in attracting financially aided students than SUNY because we provide more financial aid," he said.
"But we haven't done so well with the full-pay students," he said. "Only 24 percent of our students are full-pay, and those sorts of people are the ones we're targeting with the grant program. We think that by offering an attractive plan we will get more full-pays."
Mr. Jackson said the school had done some market testing before agreeing on the $5,000 figure. "We tried out the grant idea last fall with a group of students in the Rochester area and found a 116 percent increase over last year in the number of full-pay students who attended the University of Rochester."
Another study revealed that 68 percent of high school guidance counselors said that a $5,000 grant would have a significant impact.
Asked if he feared that the loss of tuition income would result in other needs being neglected at a time of economic uncertainty, Mr. Jackson said: "Everywhere I go, the most constant thing I hear about higher education is that we're pricing ourselves out of the market. This is an attempt to listen to that complaint."
Rochester and the four state university centers -- Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook -- draw comparable students. The average S.A.T. score for incoming freshmen at the public institutions is 1,150, out of a possible 1,600, the same as Rochester's.
Some educators predicted that other universities might follow Rochester's lead, a development that could eventually set a more realistic price tag on the cost of education. Private universities typically use high tuition for those who can pay to help subsidize financial aid for those who need it. About half of students nationwide pay less than a university's stated price, usually taking advantage of aid programs distributed largely on need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; FINANCES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); FAMILY (70%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



527 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Last One Out, Turn Off the TV;
Labor Strife Has Sports Bar Owners Crying in Their Beers

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
Peter Kramer opened Lee Mazzilli's Sports Cafe on the Upper West Side in June, the week the Rangers won the Stanley Cup for the first time in 54 years. The Yankees seemed destined for the American League playoffs and maybe even the World Series. Mr. Kramer's long oak bar was crowded. The tables in the back were filled with neck-craning fans, staring up at the 100-channel video screens.
What a difference a baseball strike can make. Not to mention a hockey lockout. 
 "No baseball, no hockey, maybe no basketball," said Mr. Kramer, Lee Mazzilli's managing general partner. "It's like we put a jinx on sports."
If off-the-field disputes were not keeping players from face-to-face ones with umpires or referees, the World Series would be starting tonight and the hockey season would be in its third week. But when there are no sports -- all right, almost no sports; there's football and preseason basketball, and there's always bowling -- New York's sports bars struggle.
Even David Letterman jokes that the only thing they can find to fill those wall-to-wall televisions, the kind that show a double play in double life size, are "surveillance tapes from the Gap."
For restaurants and bars catering to fans who eat, drink and breathe sports -- and pay for the eating and drinking part of it -- the price of a sports-limited fall has been higher than a player's salary. The City Comptroller's office estimates that the baseball and hockey labor headaches have cost businesses in New York $163 million. Of that, up to $40 million would have gone to sports-related restaurants and stadium concessions, with the restaurants losing the largest chunk.
John Tepper Marlin, the number-crunching economist who prepared the estimates, said restaurant losses have more of an effect on the local economy than lost television or ticket revenues. He figures that each home game adds $2 million to the city's economy.
But when it comes to restaurant revenue, he said that his conventional yardstick -- that each dollar a consumer spends on a home game typically generates $1.52 for the city's economy -- may be low by 33 percent.
Sports restaurateurs do not need their calculators to tote up the effects of the baseball strike, which began on Aug. 12 over owners' demand for a cap on players' salaries.
"It's hurting them," said Tim Zagat, who has stopped at up to 600 restaurants in the last three weeks for his restaurant guide. "They were so high last spring and summer, when the Rangers and Knicks were in the finals. They're way off from that. They're all kind of half-empty."
To be sure, the spring and summer were unusually victorious, not just for the teams but also for restaurants that live or die by fans.
After spending $500,000 for renovations in the spring, turning a storefront at 208 West 70th Street into a sports restaurant, with baseball bats on the ceiling and autographed photos of players on the walls, Mr. Kramer estimated that business was 50 percent below his first-year projections. He had expected to take in up to $2 million in his first 12 months. He had also expected 28 days of sold-out business from the playoffs and World Series. Instead, at 11 P.M. last Friday, he had 18 customers in a restaurant that seats 350.
On the same night, Mickey Mantle's, a 160-seat restaurant on Central Park South, was half full. When the teams are on the field instead of on strike, Mickey Mantle's is S.R.O., and by the end of a home-game evening some of the players may stop by. "We were sitting around imagining what it would have been like if there had been a Yankees-Cleveland playoff," said an owner, William Liederman.
Rand Neveloff, an owner at Boomer's Sports Club, named for Boomer Esiason, a quarterback for the Jets, was philosophical.
"People are not thinking about sports," he said after surveying the 200 mostly empty seats at his restaurant and bar at 349 Amsterdam Avenue, between 76th and 77th Streets. "Short term, I am upset, yes, but there have been strikes before. A strike is a temporary thing. I have a 15-year lease. I'm here for the long term."
The baseball strike is now the longest work stoppage in sports history. The National Hockey League season, to start on Oct. 1, was indefinitely postponed amid a similar dispute over salary caps. Now there's fear that the labor strife will spread to the National Basketball Association, whose season is to begin on Nov. 4.
Mr. Kramer said there was a cushion in Lee Mazzilli's budget. "But we can't go much longer," he said. "If basketball is to go on strike and the hockey season is to be lost, you'll probably see, without exaggeration, 75 percent of the sports bars in the city go out of business."
But gloom-and-doom forecasts are not universal. Mr. Liederman said that June had been so good with the Knicks and Rangers that Mickey Mantle's is still ahead of last year's volume, despite the baseball strike.
Billy Rose, an owner of the Sporting Club, at 99 Hudson Street, was also upbeat. "Saturdays and Sundays are much better than last year," he said, "because fans are starved for something. Anything. Fridays, there's still the after-work crowd, but they don't stay as long because there's nothing to watch."
To fill the video void, he has concentrated on the college football crowd, inviting alumni groups from Big Ten and Pac-10 schools when their games are shown on cable or satellite channels. These fans tend to spend less per person than the baseball or hockey crowds, he said, "but there are so many of them that they spend enough to make it worthwhile."
But there is a but. Not having the Yankees go into the World Series has "probably cost me $100,000 in business," Mr. Rose said. "That's dollars you cannot get back. A blow."
Until football started in early September, he said, there were nights when last call was between 9 and 10. And nights that cricket or croquet might have seemed more exciting than what was on television.
"I had nights I had bowling on," said Mr. Kramer. "We must have watched the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier match a hundred times already. We must have watched the '86 World Series, with Lee at home plate with the tying run, a thousand times."
Perhaps the fact that anyone was there at all was evidence that people go to sports bars for more than meeting Mr. or Ms. Right -- some do go for sports. Still, in the autumn of fans' discontent, not everyone finds big-screen time-killers a boring room-emptier.
"I'm really enjoying watching these muscle men on TV," said Theresa Guarino, a nurse, eyes glued to a monitor at Lee Mazzilli's that was showing body builders. "I could sit here and watch these guys pump iron for hours."

GRAPHIC: Photo: There was hockey on the big screen at Lee Mazzilli's sports bar last weekend, but the bar was empty. Perhaps it was because would-be patrons had seen it before; hockey and baseball labor problems left Mazzilli's little choice but to show the Rangers in Game 7 of last season's Stanley Cup final. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCY (AMEX) (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEE MAZZILLI'S SPORTS CAFE SPORTS CLUB CO INC (67%); TEXAS RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEE MAZZILLI'S SPORTS CAFE TEXAS RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BASEBALL; HOCKEY, ICE; TELEVISION; RESTAURANTS; STRIKES RESTAURANTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (69%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (63%); 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



528 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2532 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From President Clinton's Session With Reporters

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's White House news conference today:
Before I take your questions, I'd like to say just a word about the framework with North Korea that Ambassador Gallucci signed this morning. This is a good deal for the United States. 
 North Korea will freeze and then dismantle its nuclear program. South Korea and our other allies will be better protected. The entire world will be safer as we slow the spread of nuclear weapons.
South Korea, with support from Japan and other nations, will bear most of the cost of providing North Korea with fuel to make up for the nuclear energy it is losing, and they will pay for an alternative power system for North Korea that will allow them to produce electricity while making it much harder for them to produce nuclear weapons.
The United States and international inspectors will carefully monitor North Korea to make sure it keeps its commitments. Only as it does so will North Korea fully join the community of nations.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 Q. Mr. President, when you met last January with President Assad of Syria, he said that peace with Israel was a strategic option, and you said that he was taking the risks for peace. Has he followed through on that? Do you think that he's been forthright enough? And when you go to the Middle East next week, what can you do to break this impasse between Syria and Israel?
A. Well, I can say that there has been progress in the negotiations between Israel and Syria. Let me also say in general terms why I am going there. As you know, I and my administration have worked very hard for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. It is very much in the interests of the United States. I have been invited by King Hussein and Prime Minister Rabin to be at this signing, and I think it's important that -- particularly now, with the violent reaction to the efforts at peace, that the United States stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our friends and allies who are taking such terrific risks to make peace.
While I am there, I will visit Syria because it is my judgment that the visit will further the goal of an ultimate peace agreement between Israel and Syria. And until that is done, we will never have comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
There has been some progress in the negotiations, which are, as you know, candid and confidential between the two. I think there will be more progress. I want there to be more progress and I think this visit will further it. . . .
 
Dealing With Hamas
 Q. Mr. President, what can we do . . . what can the United States do to make sure that Hamas is not getting money from organizations here in the United States, not recruiting people and training people here in the United States? And are you satisfied with Yasir Arafat's response so far and his willingness to really crack down on Hamas and other terrorist groups?
A. We can here do everything we can through the FBI and our other law enforcement agencies to make sure that we're handling any possible illegal activities in the United States redounding to the benefit of Hamas vigorously, and just in the last week I have given instructions to the appropriate federal agencies to redouble our efforts in that regard.
With regard to your question about Mr. Arafat, I do believe, and the Israelis believe, that he did his best to support them with good intelligence when Corporal Waxman was captured and held hostage. And I believe that in the wake of the killing of Corporal Waxman the determination of the PLO to distance itself from Hamas and to enforce the law within its territories has stiffened, and I think it will continue to stiffen. . . .
 
Payments to Cedras
 Q. Mr. President, having spent hundreds of millions dollars to restore democracy to Haiti, why is it necessary for American taxpayers to spend still more renting the homes that Raoul Cedras left behind? I realize that it's a relatively insignificant sum, but isn't that adding insult to injury?
A. Well, first of all, I don't think it's an insult that we spent the money to restore democracy to Haiti.
Let's look at what has happened in the last four weeks. We have restored democracy, the military dictators have stepped down, the military dictators have left Haiti. President Aristide is rebuilding his government, the economy is beginning to be rebuilt, people are being put to work at rebuilding the country. This is a signal triumph for the men and women in uniform who are down there and the work that they have done, and it is a very important lesson in what can be done to promote democracy and to end human rights abuses.
Now, with regard to the house, let me just say that the United States and other countries that are with us in the coalition are not in the business of expropriating people's property, and when you make people leave their home, something, arguably, should have been done. The only instruction that I gave was nothing could be done that would exceed the fair market value of the property. That was the rule under which the State Department was operating anyway, and that some use had to be made of it, so they're either going to use it or turn around and re-lease it, so that the taxpayers in this country are not disadvantaged by it. But I think that this policy has been phenomenally successful in terms of saving lives, not putting Americans unduly at risk and moving this country's objectives forward, and I think the American people should be very proud of it.
 
Inside Iraq
 Q. Mr. President, during the last Persian Gulf crisis, the Bush White House at times suggested that Saddam Hussein should be overthrown. What's your assessment of the internal situation in Iraq now, and do you think Saddam Hussein should be overthrown?
A. Well, the Bush White House also made it clear that a condition of their international coalition is that they would not do the overthrowing. And what -- my position is that we should keep the pressure on that regime as long as it is out of compliance with U.N. Security Council resolutions. And there are obviously costs to the regime internally from that pressure. And that is the consequence of the misconduct of Saddam Hussein. And I think the immediate threat is receding. The withdrawal above the 32nd Parallel is nearly completed. But we will maintain the deployment at the level we have it now for awhile. We will watch the situation.
I'm gratified by the United Nations Security Council resolution unanimously condemning that conduct. There is no question that internally the pressure will continue to build up unless Saddam Hussein decides to do the right thing and fully comply with the Security Council resolutions.
Q. And your assessment of the internal situation there?
A. Your assessment might be as good as mine. I think there are extra pressures on them, and I think that those are creating some difficulties. But I don't want to predict what would happen within Iraq. . . .
 
Talk With Wilder
 Q. President Clinton, there have been a lot of reports coming out about your meeting with former Governor Wilder. Can you tell us whether the subject of an Ambassadorship for him to an African country ever came up during that recent meeting in exchange for any promise he made to endorse Chuck Robb? And what do you think of the comments that candidate Oliver North has been coming up with suggesting that there should be some kind of investigation of the meeting, that you may have broken the law during that meeting?
A. Well, first of all, there was absolutely no discussion along the lines that you mentioned of an ambassadorship to an African country in return for his endorsement of Senator Robb. That just did not happen. I would not do that. I would never be part of that and that and that -- it did not happen. The Vice President spoke to it today. I will tell you again, that did not happen. It did not happen.
Now, you know, Oliver North says a lot of things and, you know, if you've got $17 1/2 million to buy your own version of the truth then you don't have to be held apparently to the same standards that other people do. I noticed the other he said that I wasn't his Commander in Chief. Someone asked me if it bothered me. I said it didn't bother me nearly as much as the fact he didn't act as if Ronald Reagan was his Commander in Chief either when he had a chance. So, I -- I don't know what else to say about Mr. North. . . .
 
Race and Society
 Q. Mr. President, notwithstanding the problems all around the world, there are pernicious social problems here in the United States. And many of these problems in many views are breaking down along racial lines. Indeed, some people say that the progress of the '60s has been upset, overturned, that the great divide between black and white is worsening, widening. And lately there's a new book out that suggests that these problems, these conflicts, may be inherent and we may be doomed to them. What do you think about race as it applies to the social problems? And what can you do, what can a government do to try and fix some of it?
A. Well, if you're asking me first of all about Mr. Murray's book, I haven't read it. But as I understand the argument of it, I have to say I disagree with the proposition that there are inherent racially based differences in the capacity of the American people to reach their full potential. I just don't agree with that. It goes against our entire history and our whole tradition.
I also think if you -- let's just take the social problems. And I guess --I don't want to overly digress, I know a lot of you have a lot of questions, but this is a huge deal. I don't know if you saw the piece in the Wall Street Journal not very long ago where black Americans and white Americans were polled about the social problems generally -- crime, family breakdown, drugs, gangs, violence, welfare dependency. The aggregate of them, overwhelming majorities agreed that these were the great problems of our country, and they've been developing for 30 years now. Then overwhelming majorities agreed that we needed to reform the welfare system to move people from welfare to work.
The great divergence came when one group said this was caused because of the loss of economic opportunity and the government had a responsibility to rebuild it, and the other group said no, this is caused by an escalating amount of personal misconduct and people needed to change their personal behavior, in other words, the government can't do anything about it.
I would like to make the following points. I think both groups were right and both groups were wrong, number one. Number two, there's not as much racial difference here as you think there is. And let me try to illustrate it by starting at the second point.
The out-of-wedlock birthrate in the aggregate in the United States is today about 30 percent. It is higher for African American young women, that is a birth where there was never a marriage, than it is for white young women, but it is rising faster among whites than among blacks -- markedly faster, and it seems to be far more tied to poverty and lack of education and lack of being connected to the future than to race.
Number two, it is plain that we are dealing with both the loss of economic opportunity and a changed set of social mores, a changed sense of what is right and wrong, what is acceptable and unacceptable. And I believe we need to change both.
What can the government do about it? What can the President do about it? First, we can try to bring this economy back. In 1994, we've had more high-wage jobs created in our economy than in the previous five years combined. This is the first year when over half of the jobs coming into our economy are above-average wages.
Number two, as all of you know, I have signed laws to create community development banks and empowerment zones in our inner cities to try to get investment back there to give hope to people who have been left behind, to try to do the economic mission.
But having said that, to try to rebuild a society that has been pressured both in our inner cities, our isolated rural areas, for a generation now -- we're talking about 30 years of serious pressure -- is going to take a concerted effort that starts with parents, churches and community groups and private business people and people at the local level. The federal government cannot be the salvation of that. We have to rebuild the bonds of society. . . .
 
Future of Northern Ireland
 Q. Mr. President, now that the I.R.A. and the loyalist paramilitaries in Northern Ireland called a cease-fire, which has been today accepted by Prime Minister Major, can you say how soon the administration will have ready a package of economic incentives to help the peace-time Northern Ireland economy and can you characterize that package? And can you also say what is now the United States role in the talks that are going to take place regarding Northern Ireland?
A. Let me first congratulate the action which was taken and Prime Minister Major's response to it. I think both are very hopeful, and I am very glad that the United States has been able to be involved in this peace process in Northern Ireland. We will continue to be involved in it, and we certainly want to contribute to the development of Northern Ireland in ways that go beyond even what we've done already with the Irish-American Fund. There are a lot of private citizens in this country who are also really committed to that, and in the end they will have the most to say about it because we need private enterprise development in Northern Ireland. We have looked at a number of options; we have not finalized any of them because obviously we want to wait for developments to unfold until the appropriate point. We're a lot closer to the appropriate point today because of the announcements that have been made.
 
Bosnia Arms Embargo
 Q. Mr. President, are you still committed to lifting the arms embargo against the Bosnian Muslims unilaterally if you can't achieve it in the U.N. Security Council by November 15th even though that might mean the evacuation by peace keeping forces, a buildup by the Serbs and alienation of our relations with the Russians?
A. Well, let's go back to the timetable first. Under the law that our Congress adopted that I agreed to, the compromise we worked out between the administration and the Congress, because the October 15th deadline has passed without an acceptance of the peace plan by the Bosnia Serbs, we are obliged to go to the United Nations with a resolution to lift the arms embargo through the United Nations, but, at the request of the Bosnian government, to delay it for six months, to give us six more months to work on the peace. That is our commitment. If that fails, we are then obliged to go back and consult with Congress to discuss whether we should have a unilateral lift. I still believe that is a mistake. I have believed for more than two years that that would be a mistake, because if we lift unilaterally, it will cause the collapse of the United Nations mission.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton said at a White House news conference yesterday that he would visit Syria during his Middle East trip next week, even though the country is on the list of nations that sponsor terrorism, in the hope of coaxing it toward peace with Israel. He also defended his foreign and domestic policies. He left the East Room of the White House after the news conference. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JORDAN (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ;SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; NORTH KOREA; ISRAEL; JORDAN; HAITI; VIRGINIA; ; IRAQ; NORTHERN IRELAND; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JORDAN (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); HAMAS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; NORTH, OLIVER L BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



529 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Delivers Sharp Jabs At G.O.P. and 2 of Its Icons

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton directed his sharpest jabs of the political campaign at the Republican Party and its icons today, citing Representative Newt Gingrich and the Senate candidate Oliver L. North in a nationally broadcast news conference.
Responding to questions at the White House, Mr. Clinton repeatedly chided Mr. Gingrich, the House Republican whip and author of his party's fall election strategy, for calling the President an "enemy of normal Americans" in a private meeting this month. 
 He also suggested that Mr. North, who leads in the race for the Virginia Senate seat now held by Charles S. Robb, a Democrat, has broken the previous record for spending in Senate race largely to distort the truth for political gain. And he implied that Mr. North, a former Marine Corps lieutenant colonel, had willfully ignored the orders of the Commander in Chief he once served in the White House, former President Ronald Reagan.
The attacks were unusual for a President who has seldom mentioned individual Republicans in a month of constant campaigning for an imperiled Democratic slate. Still, they were only the highlights of a 45-minute appearance in which Mr. Clinton turned most questions about domestic issues into forums for trumpeting his party's successes and denouncing the opposition's record.
The President repeated the core message of his standard campaign speech -- an assault on Republican "trickle-down economics" and a litany of his achievements -- no fewer than three times. He talked at length about how he had devoted more time than any President to the problems of California, the largest and most crucial state in next month's balloting and in the 1996 Presidential election.
Mr. Clinton opened the news conference with an explanation of legislation signed more than two months ago that extended low-interest loans to college students, another staple of his campaign speeches. He responded to a question about race relations to explain his Administration's programs to lift the economy of inner cities.
He also conceded that his party would lose seats in Congress next month -- primarily, he said, because people did not yet comprehend how much Democrats had accomplished since he came to office, and how Republicans were responsible for his failures.
And he pledged to work with the leaders of whichever party controls Congress when the next round of lawmaking begins in January.
The President's most pointed attack was reserved for Mr. North, whose undercover arms-dealing in the Reagan White House with Iran and Nicaragua led to his conviction -- later overturned -- on felony charges. Mr. North has said all his actions were approved by Mr. Reagan, who has denied it.
The Clinton White House has taken an interest in defeating Mr. North, in part by pressing a former Democratic Governor of Virginia, L. Douglas Wilder, to endorse Mr. Robb, his sworn political enemy. Party officials believe the Senator needs a heavy turnout by black voters to save his seat, and they believe Mr. Wilder, the state's leading black politician, can bring them out.
On Thursday, Mr. North called for a Federal investigation into a newspaper report that Mr. Clinton had offered Mr. Wilder an ambassadorship if he would campaign for Mr. Robb. Asked about that today, Mr. Clinton denied making such an offer, and then assailed Mr. North for giving it credence.
"You know, Oliver North says a lot of things and, you know, if you've got $17 1/2 million to buy your own version of the truth, then you don't have to be held apparently to the same standards that other people do," the President said.
"I noticed the other day he said that I wasn't his Commander in Chief. Someone asked me if it bothered me. I said it didn't bother me nearly as much as the fact he didn't act as if Ronald Reagan was his Commander in Chief, either, when he had a chance."
Mr. Clinton's remarks about Mr. Gingrich were lighter, but no less direct. Asked whether he agreed with an Oklahoma candidate that Washington is not populated by normal people, Mr. Clinton laughed and said he believed that the capital's residents were normal, but that the atmosphere was "bizarre."
"Mr. Gingrich had already said in his meeting with the Republican professional politicians, that his mission in life was to convince people that I was the enemy of normal Americans," the President said. "So I would just caution the voters everywhere in this country, and when they hear somebody say there's no normal people in Washington, a lot of the people that are saying it are the people that have done their best to hang on to every last job they could get in Washington in the executive branch for two, three decades now."
Mr. Gingrich has acknowledged making the statement, first reported in The Washington Post last week, and has since said he should have called Mr. Clinton a "threat' instead of an enemy. The President seemed to dote on his new status anyway, reminding reporters later of what Mr. Gingrich had called him, and to note that he had not replied in kind.
Mr. Clinton still indicated that he would work with Republicans, including Mr. Gingrich, should they take control of one or both houses of Congress after the elections next month. He said he would spend most of the next 18 days telling voters about his record, but that if they decided to elect the opposition, "I will do everything I can to honor their judgment."
Elsewhere in the news conference, the President said he opposed an initiative on the California ballot that would deny illegal aliens access to some public services, including schools and health care for the poor. Mr. Clinton said he agreed that illegal immigration must be curbed, but that denying illegal aliens such services would tear the social fabric further by increasing the state's population of sick and uneducated people.
Two leading conservative Republicans who held Cabinet posts in the Bush Administration, Jack F. Kemp and William J. Bennett, announced their opposition to the measure on Thursday. Mr. Clinton said he agreed with their reasoning and added, "I applaud them for saying it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (60%); VIRGINIA SENATE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WHITE HOUSE (60%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (60%); VIRGINIA SENATE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; VIRGINIA; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS ; ILLEGAL ALIENS; REFERENDUMS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); FELONIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); APPROVALS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (59%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); NORTH, OLIVER L; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



530 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gasoline Retreats on Easing Of Supply Disruption Fears

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Gasoline futures prices retreated yesterday as fears eased that a pipeline explosion in Houston would diminish supplies.
Colonial Pipeline Inc. said it had restarted its gasoline line east of the rupture yesterday and resumed shipping about 60 percent of normal deliveries from the Houston area to New York City. The line ruptured Thursday. 
 Traders were uncertain how long it would take to restore the key pipeline to full operation. The constricted flow prompted the Federal Government to consider delaying a requirement that cleaner-burning gasoline be available at pumps on Jan. 1 in the nation's most polluted cities.
"We didn't give back too much," said John Saucer, an energy analyst at Smith Barney in Houston. "This market's very emotional."
The Environmental Protection Agency "was at least sending out signals that the possibility was out there for relaxing that Jan. 1 deadline, and that's all the market needed," said Tom Bentz of Quantum Financial Services in New York.
The lower energy prices, along with sharp declines in silver and coffee futures, helped push the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities down 2.28 points, to 231.63.
Unleaded gasoline for November delivery slipped 0.08 cent, to 49.87 cents a gallon, on the New York Mercantile Exchange after climbing 1.95 cents Thursday. December deliveries, which soared 3.35 cents Thursday, plunged 1.95 cents, to 57.25 cents, on speculation that the Government would relax the Clean Air Act rules.
In other trading, December light crude oil fell 24 cents, to $17.38 a barrel; November heating oil fell 1.55 cents, to 48.49 cents a gallon, and November natural gas fell 0.40 cent, to $1.597 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Silver for December delivery plunged 11 cents on the Commodity Exchange in New York, to $5.325 an ounce, amid signs of heavy Middle Eastern selling and expectations of another increase in interest rates in the United States. December gold fell 50 cents, to $392.80 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: QUANTUM FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES FUTURES (94%); GASOLINE MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); COFFEE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



531 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Advanced Micro Says Court Gives It Round in Intel Fight

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 21

 BODY:
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. said today that it had won a skirmish in its long-running battle with the Intel Corporation over the rights to manufacture compatible versions of Intel's family of microprocessor chips.
The company claimed victory despite a ruling by a Federal judge late today that issued a preliminary injunction against Advanced Micro Devices, preventing it from taking new orders for the disputed microprocessor or starting new production of chips that contain the disputed software. 
 Still, under the ruling, Advanced Micro is free to ship existing chips to customers through Jan. 15, thus sparing the company a financial penalty for the rest of the year.
The injunction was issued after an Oct. 11 ruling that Advanced Micro did not have a license to copy or distribute a portion of Intel's software that is commonly included in chips used in debugging computer systems.
The ruling, by Judge Patricia Trumbull of the Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif., is a side issue in two of the three suits currently pending between Advanced Micro and Intel.
Advanced Micro's primary business is selling "clones" -- or copies -- of Intel's industry dominant 486 and 386 microprocessors. The right of Advanced Micro to make copies, under a previous license from Intel, and accusations that the company violated Intel copyrights, are the basis of the suits.
The disputed software, known as ICE microcode, for in-circuit emulation, is built into the chips but is accessible or used in only a few of them. Advanced Micro had previously said it would immediately stop production of those chips that use the software and destroy existing inventory. Earlier this month, Advanced Micro said fewer than 100,000 chips were affected.
The ruling was issued after the stock market had closed. Intel's stock closed at $60.50, down 18.75 cents.. Advanced Micro Devices stock closed at $23.75, up 25 cents.
Today's ruling came after the two companies agreed on a number of points under which Advanced Micro would not seek new customers for its chips during the rest of the year and would stop manufacturing microprocessors which contain the offending code.
The company has begun manufacturing new versions of the 486 microprocessor that do not contain the disputed software.
"Advanced Micro Devices clearly won," said Michael Slater, editor of Microprocessor Report, an industry newsletter. "There was tremendous risk to them and to some of their customers in the last quarter. This lessens the pain of what was a very negative decision two weeks ago."
Advanced Micro devices has designed a new version of the 486 that does not include the disputed code. It is also in the final stages of designing a chip that will compete with Intel's more advanced Pentium microprocessor. The new Advanced Micro processor is scheduled to go into volume production some time in the first half of next year.
Today's injunction is a relatively small issue in a legal battle that is likely to go on for years.
"This is great for Advanced Micro," said Millard Phelps, a semiconductor industry analyst at Hambrecht & Quist in San Francisco. "But it is largely a marginal win in a much longer saga."
Intel executives said they were uncertain what the the ruling meant for the company. "It's hard to determine the economic impact," said F. Thomas Dunlap, Intel vice president and general counsel.
The company said it would seek damages for all shipments of Advance Micro 486 and 386 microprocessors that contain the ICE microcode, which was the subject of the recent ruling by the same Federal court.
Although Advanced Micro Devices has begun to chip away at Intel's share of the 486 market in recent years, Intel has been pushing the industry toward the Pentium chip by aggressively lowering prices and by marketing efforts to encourage consumers to buy faster computers.
So far, Advanced Micro has shipped four million 486 chips and 25 million 386 chips.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (98%); AMD (FRA) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC; INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC; INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS; SUITS AND LITIGATION MICROPROCESSORS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); JUDGES (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); NEW ORDERS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



532 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Long Bond Comes Back From Selloff

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
After a three-day selloff in reaction to robust economic data, prices of long-term bonds rebounded yesterday from early weakness as the dollar rose as well.
The dollar, down sharply in early trading, regained much of its lost ground amid rumors that the Federal Reserve Board was intervening in the currency markets and as the Treasury issued a reassuring statement from Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. But the reversal did not come fast enough to keep the dollar from setting a new post-World War II low against the Japanese yen and reaching a two-year low against the German mark. 
 The recovery in bonds may be short-lived. Most analysts continue to believe the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee will lift rates by 50 basis points at its Nov. 15 meeting. There is also a possibility of an earlier move, some think, while others suggest the Fed might raise short-term rates even more. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
"The relentlessly robust economic data this week swept away investors' earlier doubt that the expansion has regained momentum," said John Lipsky, the chief economist for Salomon Brothers. "The uptick in activity raises the ante for the Fed as well. The dollar's new swoon also adds to pressure on the Fed to act decisively."
The latest MMS International survey shows third-quarter forecasts continuing to creep higher, with the median among economists now up to 2.8 percent, from 2.5 percent a week ago.
Traders said the modest comeback in bonds on Friday was supported by commodities prices, which retreated from their increase on Thursday. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities futures fell 2.28 points, to 231.63.
"Today's behavior certainly underscores what a sour mood this market is in," said James Hale, a fixed-income analyst with MMS International. "The market was due for a corrective bounce after such sharp declines this week, but today's meager rebound fizzled out."
Mr. Hale predicted that the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bellwether issue should move well above 8 percent in the near future. He noted that next week's Treasury auctions would add to the supply and said that traders remain worried about more declines in the dollar. Yesterday, in intraday trading, the yield on the long bond moved up to as much as 8.03 percent, the highest since the spring of 1992.
The 30-year bond rose 7/32 , to 9420/32 , for a yield of 7.97 percent, down from 7.99 percent on Thursday, with bills virtually unchanged.
Next week the Treasury plans to sell $28.25 billion of new two-year and five-year notes. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the two-year note was being offered to yield 6.81 percent and the five-year to yield 7.46 percent. Both were up 10 basis points since Wednesday, when the Fed announced the terms of the auctions.
Elliott Platt, managing director of economic research of the taxable fixed-income division of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said he thought there was a chance that the Fed would raise the Federal funds rate on Monday or Tuesday in anticipation of evidence that final sales in the third quarter picked up strongly.
"We think that the case for a more immediate firming would be bolstered by expectations for Friday's G.D.P. report," Mr. Platt said, referring to the gross domestic product data due out next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: MMS INTERNATIONAL (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FUTURES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); GERMAN MARK (71%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



533 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Bratton Joins Watch Over Harlem Boycott

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
As Police Commissioner William J. Bratton toured the street, about 20 sidewalk vendors picketed noisily in front of a half-dozen stores on 125th Street yesterday. It was the fourth day of a boycott organized by the displaced vendors, which has produced mixed results.
The vendors, who were removed by the police from their customary places on the broad sidewalks of 125th Street on Monday, urged Harlem shoppers to bypass stores not owned by blacks. Some responded to the demonstrators' pleas, but others ignored them. Dozens of police officers on street patrol, on scooters and packed into cruising vans enforced an uneasy peace. 
 Many merchants said that their business had dropped significantly because of the protest; others said sales activity was close to normal.
There was also a clear indication that some street vendors had begun responding to the Giuliani administration's attempt to relocate them to an open-air market on an empty lot eight blocks to the south, on Lenox Avenue between 116th and 117th Streets. Vendors had set up roughly two dozen tables on the asphalt lot by midday, a significant increase over the single vendor who on Monday had accepted the city's offer to do business there.
One vendor at the new site said he thought this weekend would prove a crucial test of whether shoppers would go to the new market.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani started cracking down on as many as 1,000 street vendors on 125th Street after established merchants complained that they clogged the sidewalks, lured away customers and littered the streets along Harlem's shopping hub -- all without paying rent or taxes. Many elected officials in Harlem have supported the effort, as have local business groups.
But the vendors, along with some local residents, contend the dispute has more to do with race than with economic development. They say that the vendors are trying to make an honest living in a difficult economy, and they question why the Mayor is choosing to single out black street vendors on 125th Street -- most of whom are African or Caribbean -- rather than Asian vendors on Canal Street or white vendors in other parts of New York.
"Pass them by, pass them by," a demonstrator yelled in midafternoon behind a metal fence set up by the police about 20 feet from the door of the H & M Sneaker Center, on the south side of 125th Street between Lenox Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard.
As Commissioner Bratton walked along 125th Street at 2 P.M., surveying the pickets and the police, he ignored one man who asked him: "Why don't you go after white people? Black people can't sell jeans and sneakers?" But he did try to reassure other shoppers, who politely asked him questions, that similar efforts would be made in other parts of the city.
Mr. Bratton said he was pleased at what he saw: the vendors were able to demonstrate without blocking people's access to the stores.
On Thursday, the Commissioner said that the intense police presence would remain on 125th Street as long as necessary. He suggested that the weather might eventually discourage the picketers.
"It's getting cold," he said. "I believe nature will end up controlling the situation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brushing aside complaints by pickets yesterday, Police Commissioner William J. Bratton assured shoppers on 125th Street that sidewalk vendors would be moved from other congested shopping areas in the city, too. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET; BLACKS (IN US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BOYCOTTS TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (91%); BOYCOTTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: BRATTON, WILLIAM J (COMR) RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



534 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Game of Musical Managers Stops in Chicago and San Diego

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The only movement of any significance in baseball these days -- the comings and goings of managers -- continued yesterday, along with another staying.
Jim Riggleman left the San Diego Padres and joined the Chicago Cubs as manager under a two-year contract. His third-base coach, Bruce Bochy, was promoted to Riggleman's job in San Diego with a one-year deal. And Davey Johnson was rehired as manager of the Cincinnati Reds for 1995 under a two-year agreement that will move him into the front office in 1996. 
 The new hirings brought to six the number of teams that have changed managers since the season was called off on Sept. 14.
In joining the Cubs, the 41-year-old Riggleman rejoined an old friend, General Manager Ed Lynch, in a new management team aimed at invigorating the struggling club.
Under Riggleman, the Padres were 47-70, worst in baseball. Nevertheless, Riggleman was credited with doing a good job after the club had unloaded some of its best players in an economy move. The Cubs were 49-64 and last in the National League Central under Tom Trebelhorn.
In San Diego, Bochy, 39, becomes the youngest manager in the National League. The former catcher is expected to be an asset in dealing with the Padres' young pitchers.
Johnson, 51, had the Reds leading the National League Central Division with a 66-48 record when the players struck on Aug. 12. He will remain manager next season and become a special assistant to General Manager Jim Bowden in 1996.
Ray Knight was promoted to assistant manager and third-base coach. Hal McRae, dropped last month as manager of Kansas City, was hired as the Reds' hitting coach. McRae replaces Bob Boone, who replaced McRae as Royals manager.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chicago Cubs Manager Jim Riggleman yesterday at his new office, Wrigley Field. Riggleman had been manager of the San Diego Padres. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (56%); MISSOURI, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (57%); CHICAGO CUBS (93%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (93%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%); CINCINNATI REDS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (56%); MISSOURI, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BASEBALL (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); 

PERSON: JIM RIGGLEMAN (92%); HAL MCRAE (87%); DAVEY JOHNSON (67%); BRUCE BOCHY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



535 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
God's Angry Land

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
Anger has become the national habit. You see it on the sullen faces of fashion models who have obviously been told that anger sells. It pours out of the radio all day. Washington journalism hams snarl and shout at each other on television. Generations exchange sneers on TV and printed page. Ordinary people abuse Congressmen and President with shockingly personal insults. Rudeness is a justifiable way of showing you can no longer control the fury within. Vile speech, justified on the same ground, is inescapable.
America is angry at Washington, angry at the press, angry at immigrants, angry at television, angry at traffic, angry at people who are well off and angry at people who are poor, angry at blacks and angry at whites. The old are angry at the young, the young angry at the old. Suburbs are angry at cities, cities are angry at suburbs, and rustic America is angry at both whenever urban and suburban intruders threaten the peaceful rustic sense of having escaped from God's Angry Land. 
 Enough: A complete catalogue of the varieties of bile spoiling the American day would fill a library. The question is why. Why has anger become a reflexive response to the inevitable vagaries of national life?
Living perpetually at the boiling point seems to leave the country depressed and pessimistic. Study those scowling models wearing the latest clothes in the Sunday papers and magazines. Those are faces that expect only the worst. What a pity to waste such lovely new clothes on people so incapable of happiness.
The popularity of anger is doubly puzzling, not only because the American habit even in the worst of times has traditionally been mindless optimism, but also because there is relatively little nowadays for the nation to be angry about.
The country happily re-elected President Eisenhower in 1956 because it believed his campaign boast about giving it peace and prosperity. The "peace," of course, was life under the endless threat of nuclear devastation.
By contrast the country now, at last, really does enjoy peace, and if the prosperity is not so solid as it was in the 1950's, American wealth is still the world's vastest. So, with real peace and prosperity, what's to be furious about?
The explanation, I suspect, is that the country got itself addicted to anger and can't shake the habit. It was hooked long ago when there was very good reason for anger.
Massive, irritating and even scary expressions of it were vital in shaking an obdurate Government, contemptuous of public opinion, from its determination to pursue war ad infinitum in Vietnam.
Massive, irritating and even scary expressions of anger -- from Americans both black and white -- were needed for the triumph of Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement.
These were monumental victories. If the nation had been unwilling to get mad -- to shout, "We're not going to take it anymore!" -- they might not have been won.
But what monumental struggle confronts us now? Giving young black people a stake in America is our most pressing problem, but nobody shouts much about that. Most other problems are so unmonumental that we might think the times ripe for greatness: an era of civility conducive to good feeling among neighbors of all races and persuasions, a golden age of progress in learning and the arts and science . . .
Is this making you angry? It's easy to imagine the cries of rage from a people habituated to crying rage: Are women not still oppressed by glass ceilings? Do black Americans no longer have to suffer the disrespect of a racist world? Who dares talk of prosperity when the wealth is distributed so unfairly?
True, all true. There is far too much poverty, racism remains an affliction, women still don't have economic equality with men. These present economists, philosophers and statesmen with exceedingly complex problems not amenable to solution by red-hot anger.
Politically minded people concerned with these issues have always known that low-grade anger must be maintained, that political feet must be kept to the fire, that the squeaky wheel gets the grease, and so on. The high-intensity fury now seething through the land on these and a hundred other issues, however, doesn't seem focused on any social or economic goal. It's as though the nation got mad as hell a long time ago, got good results, and now can't shake the anger habit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (70%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ANGER (EMOTION); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



536 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: How Rich We Are! And Yet How Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Oh, how rich we Americans have become!
Our private net worth after discounting for inflation has increased over the last 50 years by fivefold. On a per capita basis and in real (inflation-corrected) terms, Americans are three times richer than we were 50 years ago. 
 We are properly concerned about our $4.5 trillion national debt, but our private net worth -- after deducting private debt -- exceeds $23 trillion. This means 260 million Americans today possess an arithmetic average wealth after subtracting debt of nearly $90,000 each, or more than $350,000 for every family of four.
The 1994 Statistical Abstract of the United States shows that in 1992 those living in poverty included 24.5 million whites, or 11.6 percent of the white population; 10.6 million blacks, or 33.3 percent of the black population, and 6.7 million Hispanics, or 29.3 percent of the Hispanic population.
Despite the country's wealth, the plight of the needy appears to have deteriorated since 1970. The Statistical Abstract discloses that while average private wealth was enormously increasing, the percentage of Americans living below the poverty line appears to have risen. In 1969, 12.1 percent of Americans lived in poverty; by 1992, in this far richer country, the figure had risen to 14.5 percent.
How can this be? Our Federal Government has spent far more billions than ever on housing for the poor, food stamps for the needy and health care through Medicaid for the impoverished. But our health is an international disgrace. We suffer the shortest life expectancy of any developed, industrial nation. We lead the developed world in the incidence of heart disease and cancer. We have become the fattest people who ever dwelt on this earth.
This sorry record has little to do with health care. The answer is that we eat far more and exercise far less than any other nationality.
It is not just our Government that is failing. It is the individual American!
 
WILLIAM PROXMIRE
Washington, Oct. 20, 1994
 
The writer is the former United States Senator from Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; OBESITY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); STATISTICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); MEDICAID (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); WRITERS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); 

PERSON: PROXMIRE, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994



537 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 23, 1994

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1		1	INSOMNIA, by Stephen King. (Viking, $27.95.) A widower and a widow, victims of sleeplessness, behold sinister forces at work in their small Maine town.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	8	DEBT OF HONOR, by Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $25.95.) Jack Ryan and C.I.A. agents vs. a Japanese plot to strike America's territory and economy.	 	 	 	 	 3	1	3	TALTOS, by Anne Rice. (Knopf, $25.) The survivor of a species of witches copes with his heritage; a sequel to "The Witching Hour" and "Lasher."	 	 	 	 	 4	4	34	THE CELESTINE PROPHECY, by James Redfield. (Warner, $17.95.) An ancient manuscript, found in Peru, provides insights into achieving a fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 	 5	3	5	NOTHING LASTS FOREVER, by Sidney Sheldon. (Morrow, $23.) Three women doctors in San Francisco contend with lovers, betrayers and killers.	 	 	 	 	 6	6	18	POLITICALLY CORRECT BEDTIME STORIES, by James Finn Garner. (Macmillan, $8.95.) Classic tales respun to avoid offending current sensibilities.	 	 	 	 	 7	5	6	THE BODY FARM, by Patricia Cornwell. (Scribners, $23.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta investigates the kidnapping and murder of a small North Carolina girl.	 	 	 	 	 8	8	3	WILD HORSES, by Dick Francis. (Putnam, $22.95.) A film maker pursues the secret confided to him by a dying racing expert.	 	 	 	 	 9	7	115	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $16.95.) A photographer and a farmer's lonely wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	 10	9	13	THE GIFT, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $15.) A woman's casual visit to a small town changes the lives of many of its inhabitants, as well as her own.	 	 	 	 	 11	12	20	THE CHAMBER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A lawyer represents a racist who is on death row for his part in a 1967 bombing in Mississippi.	 	 	 	 	 12	13	6	MUTANT MESSAGE DOWN UNDER, by Marlo Morgan. (HarperCollins, $18.) In Australia's outback, an American woman learns about aboriginal philosophy.	 	 	 	 	 13	16	4	ONE TRUE THING, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $22.) A woman who cared for her fatally ill mother is charged with killing her.	 	 	 	 	 14	11	5	BROTHERS AND SISTERS, by Bebe Moore Campbell. (Putnam, $22.95.) The loyalties of a black woman are tested by colleagues' behavior in a Los Angeles bank.	 	 	 	 	 15	10	8	A SON OF THE CIRCUS, by John Irving. (Random House, $25.) Returning to his native India, a Canadian physician encounters a murderer he once knew.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	6	BARBARA BUSH: A Memoir, by Barbara Bush. (Drew/Scribners, $25.) The former First Lady's life.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	4	JAMES HERRIOT'S CAT STORIES, by James Herriot. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A collection of tales.	 	 	 	 	 3	7	3	DON'T STAND TOO CLOSE TO A NAKED MAN, by Tim Allen. (Hyperion, $19.95.) Anecdotes and opinions.	 	 	 	 	 4	10	2	THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Random House, $23.) The discovery of a lethal virus.	 	 	 	 	 5	3	7	COUPLEHOOD, by Paul Reiser. (Bantam, $19.95.) Essays on the ups and downs of marriage.	 	 	 	 	 6	4	2	DOLLY, by Dolly Parton. (HarperCollins, $25.) The autobiography of the country singer.	 	 	 	 	 7	5	5	BASEBALL, by Geoffrey C. Ward and Ken Burns. (Knopf, $60.) An illustrated history of the game.	 	 	 	 	 8	6	4	ALL'S FAIR, by Mary Matalin and James Carville with Peter Knobler. (Random House and Simon & Schuster, $24.) The 1992 Presidential campaign.	 	 	 	 	 9	9	44	THE BOOK OF VIRTUES, by William J. Bennett. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Moral stories.	 	 	 	 	 10	8	33	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, by John Berendt. (Random House, $23.) The mysterious death of a young man in Savannah, Ga.	 	 	 	 	 11	13	2	NO ORDINARY TIME, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The roles of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt during World War II.	 	 	 	 	 12	12	13	MOTHERLESS DAUGHTERS, by Hope Edelman. (Addison-Wesley, $23.) Women whose mothers have died.	 	 	 	 	 13	11	76	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $16.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	 14		3	THE LAST BUS TO ALBUQUERQUE, by Lewis Grizzard. Edited by Gerrie Ferris. (Longstreet, $20.) A collection of essays by the late syndicated humorist.	 	 	 	 	 15		5	TRUE NORTH, by Jill Ker Conway. (Knopf, $23.) A memoir by a former president of Smith College.	 	 	 	 	 16*	15	2	RUNNING FROM SAFETY, by Richard Bach. (Morrow, $23.) A middle-aged man's reflections on life.	 	 	 	 	 17*		4	BETTER THAN SEX, by Hunter S. Thompson. (Random House, $23.) The 1992 Presidential campaign as seen by the gonzo journalist.	 	 	 	 	 18*		9	THE KENNEDY WOMEN, by Laurence Leamer. (Villard, $27.50.) Five generations of a family.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	74	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $23.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	26	IN THE KITCHEN WITH ROSIE, by Rosie Daley. (Knopf, $14.95.) Recipes by Oprah Winfrey's cook. 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	4	MAGIC EYE III, by N.E. Thing Enterprises. (Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) Designs in color that take on new qualities when scrutinized at length.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	2	REAL MOMENTS, by Barbara De Angelis. (Delacorte, $21.95.) Ways to cope with life's problems.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending Oct. 8, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
And Bear in Mind
(Editor's Choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
THE BELL CURVE: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life, by Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray. (Free Press, $30.) The evidence the authors see indicates to them that society is layered in rough accordance with I.Q. and that I.Q. is largely heritable, findings they believe society needs to take note of.
 
THE FOLLOWING STORY, by Cees Nooteboom. (Helen and Kurt Wolff/Harcourt Brace, $14.95.) An insignificant man who has experienced transformation by imagination awaits his turn at death in this "Eurofable" by a Dutch novelist.
 
IN THE LAKE OF THE WOODS, by Tim O'Brien. (Seymour Lawrence/Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) This grim, telling novel deals with the incapacity to register reality of a politician whose disappearance from the record of the My Lai massacre precedes his vanishing from the earth.
 
NATURALIST, by Edward O. Wilson. (Shearwater/Island Press, $24.95.) A memoir by a distinguished biologist who has never lost his boyhood enchantment with nature, though he has suffered abuse for his sociobiological synthesis.
 
THE PHYSICS OF IMMORTALITY: Modern Cosmology, God and the Resurrection of the Dead, by Frank J. Tipler. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Life is eternal, says a mathematical physicist, given the nature of this universe; a 123-page mathematical appendix is offered for skeptics.
 
THE SCIENCE OF DESIRE: The Search for the Gay Gene and the Biology of Behavior, by Dean Hamer and Peter Copeland. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A readable, cautious account, by a scientist and a journalist, of an investigation into whether homosexuality is genetically determined.
 
SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS, by David Guterson. (Harcourt Brace, $21.95.) A handsomely constructed, densely packed first novel whose characters are those who suffered and those who profited from the internment of Japanese-Americans in World War II, called upon by a criminal trial to act decently later on.
 
STALIN AND THE BOMB: The Soviet Union and Atomic Energy, 1939-1956, by David Holloway. (Yale University, $30.) A superb history, showing how Stalin both helped and hindered his nuclear scientists, and telling more about the Soviet H-bomb project than is known about our own.
 
TAFT, by Ann Patchett. (Richard Todd/Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) This generous novel concerns abandonment, dislocation and the recovery of community in a Memphis bar whose owner is a surrogate parent to two displaced teen-agers.
 
WHAT I LIVED FOR, by Joyce Carol Oates. (William Abrahams/Dutton, $23.95.) Ms. Oates shrewdly dissects the national myths of manhood and success in a novel whose easily confused hero understands less than the reader does of what passes through his own mind.
 
WHO WILL RUN THE FROG HOSPITAL? by Lorrie Moore. (Knopf, $20.) A sad, witty, disillusioned fairy tale whose heroine, approaching 40, recalls the illusion of limitless possibility she used to feel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MAINE, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOMBINGS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); MURDER (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); HOMICIDE (66%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (72%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



538 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 39; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: No More Whining

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Concerning Robert Pinsky's essay "A Man Goes Into a Bar, See, and Recites: 'The Quality of Mercy Is Not Strained' " (Sept. 25), which perceptively discusses the committing to memory of poems: 
 It has seemed to me for a long time that the entire apparatus of poetry workshops, writing schools, etc., would be better off totally dismantled, and replaced with what Robert Graves assures us was the ancient Welsh method of training poets: by having would-be poets memorize thousands of lines of poems, and composing their own work (after this rigorous apprenticeship) strictly on classical models. In doing so, we would lose, perhaps, the much-vaunted "individual voice" that such workshops are said to nurture (along with most of Generation X), but we would also be spared the mediocre collegiate whinings of endless introspection: whinings perhaps unique, but only in the way that the yelps of seal pups are unique to their anxious mothers.
It takes no real budgeting of time to do this, either. Simply photocopy a good text, snip it into logical segments, tape these to index cards (making sure to number each card sequentially) and carry them whenever the vagaries of life are likely to put you at the tail of a slow-moving line. I've memorized long poems like Yeats's "Easter 1916" (which Mr. Pinsky mentions), Browning's "Childe Roland," Donne's "Extasy" and the entirety of Spenser's "Epithalamion," as well as countless shorter verses by Shakespeare, Keats, Roethke, Housman, while waiting to make a deposit at the bank, or for a load of skivvies to dry. More impressive, students of mine, many of them from virtually illiterate backgrounds, have in this manner memorized poems equally long or difficult.
There are many reasons for engaging in this apparently fruitless activity. (It's a hit at parties, and great for defusing tense urban confrontations.) Mr. Pinsky outlines some of the deeper ones in referring to the roots of memory and language. But one of the more telling reasons may be formed, I think, by a projected future image: yourself on your back, perhaps blind, unable to move, with nothing whatsoever to fall back on but what you've assimilated in a lifetime. How nice -- or, at any rate, how reassuring -- to be able to whisper, with Emily Dickinson, "Superiority to Fate / Is difficult to gain / 'Tis not conferred of Any / But possible to earn / A pittance at a time / Until to Her surprise / The Soul with strict economy / Subsist till Paradise."
 
JOHN MELLA
Wilmette, Ill.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE POETRY (91%); WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); GENERATION X (53%); 

PERSON: MELLA, JOHN; PINSKY, ROBERT ROBERT VON RANKE GRAVES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



539 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: The Stultification of Washington

BYLINE: By Adam Clymer; Adam Clymer, the chief Congressional correspondent for The New York Times, is writing a political biography of Edward M. Kennedy.

 BODY:

ARROGANT CAPITAL
Washington, Wall Street, and the Frustration
of American Politics.
By Kevin Phillips.
231 pp. Boston: Little, Brown & Company. $22.95. 
 AMERICANS believe special interests run Washington. Many think that even members of Congress whose work they approve of should not be re-elected, but somehow they get re-elected anyway. The parties work best together when they are doing something for themselves like voting their own pay raise or when carrying forward programs validated by experts that ordinary citizens dislike, like a tax increase or a free trade agreement that might cost American jobs.
Kevin Phillips, a thoughtfully prescient student of election trends since "The Emerging Republican Majority" was published in 1969, argues that the problem with Washington is that elections don't change things the way they used to, when an election like the one in 1828 that put Andrew Jackson in the White House, or the one in 1932 that gave Franklin Roosevelt his first term, changed Congress and especially the executive branch down to their roots.
"Since the 1960's," Mr. Phillips writes, "revolutionary elections have been stymied by the interlock between interest-group power and the political system. Presidents can only govern by accepting, placating and bargaining with the interest-group structure."
With a comparable disdain for the markets and financial institutions generally, which he argues produce little except "derivative instruments able to speculate on everything short of war with Mars," Mr. Phillips's briskly written manifesto sees two major economic consequences tied in with the stultification of Washington. One is that the effective interest groups protect stockholders, not workers, and that speculative finance is the most favored economic enterprise of all -- because of the way the financial sector can steer campaign contributions to needy politicians.
The second and more lasting problem is that just as electoral revolutions have been extinguished, so have the cycles of "self-correcting capitalism." Instead of bankruptcy and tough regulation following the collapse of speculative bubbles, the interests that run Washington now provide cushioned bailouts.
But this sort of argument goes down uneasily. One is left discomforted, concerned that the consequences -- here the blow to the economy of huge financial bankruptcies -- have not been thoughtfully considered and found to be overstated, or worth the risk, but have merely been brushed off. Similarly, it's one thing to say the parties are both out of touch but quite another to say partisanship is muted. What about health care?
Yet Mr. Phillips's occasional rhetorical overkill is not a major weakness, though it may be put to ill use in one cause of Washington's failure that he overlooks, the mindless cheapening of public debate.
That omission creates an important gap. The ineffectiveness of Washington is not entirely its own doing. The American people, not exactly the politically involved outraged yeoman farmers of the Jackson era, demand the political free lunch, the promise that the Government can do more for them without raising taxes or that military muscle can be flexed without risk of a soldier being shot. Special interests "like giant mushrooms in a tropical rain forest" are a menace, but are they really a worse menace than the 30-second spot that helps imprint political simple-mindedness? Mr. Phillips will doubtless be quoted approvingly by Rush Limbaugh and the lesser yammerers of the radio right, but no one is seriously proposing term limits for those poisoners of political discourse.
The blind spot shows when another polluter of the public dialogue, Newt Gingrich, comes in for an approving mention in this book. The member of the Republican leadership from Georgia hardly contributes to thoughtful debate when he asserts, as he did on the ABC news program "This Week," that a "police state" is the only way to assure universal health insurance.
Mr. Phillips's solutions to what ails the system are an eclectic and interesting collection designed to stir the Washington pot. They range from Congressional term limits to moving Congress out of Washington for a couple of months each year and exiling some departments like Interior to distant cities.
His weapons against what he calls the financialization of the economy are "a Federal tax on financial transactions that would simultaneously reduce the profitability and volume of speculative trading," and a taxing device to make "individual and corporate investments overseas less rewarding than domestic ones."
Some of these proposals seem more provocative than carefully weighed. Term limits are highly popular, but Mr. Phillips hardly considers whether shuffling lawmakers while leaving the bureaucracies of Congress and the executive branch in place would give the people more of a voice.
For every old hack committee chairman like a Charlie Rose (who runs the House Administration Committee, puts North Carolina wine on the restaurant menu and complains when leaders ask for tough votes) there is an old battler like a David Obey (chairman of the Appropriations Committee, liberal and a curmudgeonly reformer). There is little in the vast but generally petty freshman class elected to the House in 1992 that suggests that turnover for its own sake makes the Congress better.
But the last thing to do is kiss off this book the way House Speaker Tom Foley kisses off criticism of Congress as just an American tradition. As Mr. Phillips argues, the old criticism was often stimulated by the interests that were controlling the Government at the time when Washington was "little more than a parade ground for power rooted elsewhere."
Now Washington is the enemy itself, and "Arrogant Capital" makes a convincing and connected case for why the issue is more than gridlock, or more than political action committees or any one element of what has become "an interest-group fortress, essentially unconquered by the public since the walls and turrets began rising after World War II."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ARROGANT CAPITAL (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JACKSON, MS, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); BAILOUTS (65%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; PHILLIPS, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



540 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Whither the Universe? Sideways!

BYLINE: By Dennis Overbye; Dennis Overbye, the author of "Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos," is working on a book about Albert Einstein.

 BODY:

VOYAGE TO THE GREAT ATTRACTOR
Exploring Intergalactic Space.
By Alan Dressler.
Illustrated. 355 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $25. 
IN 1980 seven astronomers -- Sandy, Alan, Dave, Roger, Roberto, Donald and Gary -- set out like characters in some cosmic road movie on an expedition through the universe. Armed with giant telescopes, computers and a list of 500 galaxies, they hoped to gain an important insight about the origin and evolution of those starry conglomerations -- the galaxies of the expanding universe. What they found after six years of hard work was more dramatic, even ominous.
At a small meeting of cosmological experts on the Kona coast on the island of Hawaii in January 1986, they announced, in contradiction of the most fashionable and carefully nurtured cosmological theories of the time, that the universe was expanding lopsidedly. They reported that a vast region of space 500 million light-years in diameter, containing hundreds of thousands of galaxies, was being drawn sideways, as it were, through expanding space, like a raft being pulled downstream at two million miles per hour toward some cosmic Niagara, a putative colossal concentration of mass later dubbed the Great Attractor. In 20 years of science reporting I have never seen such pandemonium at a scientific meeting. "What are we to do," one exasperated theorist was later to declaim, only half jokingly, "with these seven, these, these . . . these seven samurai?"
Alan Dressler has now written an insider's account of the events that led up to this discovery and its subsequent impact on the science and lives of those so-called samurai (the name stuck). His book, "Voyage to the Great Attractor," is a small classic. Writing with spare eloquence and rare candor about himself, his colleagues and the frontiers of a complicated science, Mr. Dressler has managed to produce a book that reads like a novel, with strong characters, conflict and suspense, as well as the inevitable deep thoughts.
Deftly cutting from scenes of a long night at the telescope to a leisurely history of cosmology to the story of the Great Attractor itself, Mr. Dressler introduces his colleagues one by one as they are recruited into the project. They are a casting director's dream roster. The leader of the group is a woman, Sandy Faber, who channeled the resentment she felt at not being able to play Little League baseball into becoming one of the outstanding scientists of her generation. Roberto Terlevich is a self-imposed political exile from Argentina. Donald Lynden-Bell, the group's lone theorist, is a prudish Anglican; Roger Davies is a steelworker's son from the industrial north of England, and Gary Wegner, the last to join the team, is a quiet but opinionated family man from the Northwest.
Mr. Dressler, a former student of Ms. Faber's at the University of California, Santa Cruz, a self-described loner who seems to have almost glided to a position of prominence as a young astronomer, is reluctantly dragooned into the collaboration by Dave Burstein, a fellow student of Ms. Faber's, with whom he has a long history of personality clashes. Mr. Burstein, overcompensating for a disastrous incident during graduate school that set back and nearly derailed his career (his mind was affected by the high doses of Valium prescribed for a back injury), strikes Mr. Dressler as pushy and presumptuous. In turn, Mr. Burstein finds Mr. Dressler smug and overrated.
Nature, of course, in the form of those majestic galaxies, is the main character in this narrative, and it throws this unwieldy team of scientists one curveball after another. At their first meeting to discuss their results, in Cambridge, England, they discover, among a slew of other problems, that a large chunk of data hasn't even been analyzed. Donald is furious; Sandy, suffering excruciating back pain, is confined to a cot, and the author finds the food and other amenities wanting. Forced into the role of workhorse, the overburdened and underappreciated Dave finally explodes. Not until many such stressful meetings have passed do the astronomers slowly and reluctantly realize that their data are hopelessly tangled because they have misjudged the motions of the galaxies. In addition to being carried outward by the general expansion of space, the entire sky they have measured is adrift, in the gravitational grip of the Great Attractor.
Fittingly, it is the beleaguered Mr. Burstein who gets to report the news of the Great Attractor to the cosmologists in Hawaii, and they know immediately what it portends. It means they don't know what the universe is made of. The possibility that whole galaxies are being pulled toward a colossal mass would imply that the universe is far lumpier than would be permitted by the reigning theory based on something known, for technical reasons I won't explain here, as cold dark matter. The presence of the Great Attractor was about as welcome to this community of cosmologists as a wrecking ball. The samurai have since broken up, but the confusion they wrought continues to this day.
THROUGHOUT this tale of snarled data and snarling astronomers, Mr. Dressler manages to keep us involved even when the technical details threaten to go over our heads; he explains the science with the same restrained polish that probably drove Mr. Burstein crazy. Too much of this can sound glib, but the author has a soothing knack for mixing in the personal when you least expect it. His explication of the mysteries of the inflationary theory of the universe, introduced by an anecdote about his uncle, is as clean and unhyperbolic as any I have read.
With characteristic boldness Mr. Dressler has added a thoughtful concluding essay that is alone worth the price of the book. In it he argues that within a few hundred years science is likely to reach its limits as far as fundamental laws are concerned, that some questions, such as what happened "before" the big bang, will be left forever beyond the pale, and that we will, nonetheless, have acquired enough knowledge to engage in the kind of genetic and biomechanical tinkering that will splinter the human species forever. "It is my conclusion, therefore," Mr. Dressler writes grimly, "that we are most likely near the end of what we have known as humanity. Nature's gifts to us have led to the secret keys of evolution, and we are not likely, I think, to long refrain from unlocking this box of treasures and troubles."
Whether the Great Attractor winds up as a cosmological landmark or a footnote, whether science reaches some ultimate limit or not, "Voyage to the Great Attractor" will remain as a valuable account of how astronomy and cosmology were really done in the late 20th century.
 
 
 
HE CALLED IT THE GREAT ATTRACTOR
 "People feel a sort of familiarity with the sky and astronomy," says Alan Dressler, the author of "Voyage to the Great Attractor," an account of a pathbreaking study he undertook with six colleagues to explore the spread of galaxies through the universe. "Usually you get a very positive response when you tell people you're an astronomer. They say 'That's neat. I was interested when I was a kid.' "
Mr. Dressler, who is 46, single and a first-time author, said in a telephone interview that he was determined to write "without pulling any punches." "I wanted to break this idea that science isn't a human thing, that it's somehow infallible or unemotional," he said.
So he concentrated on the daily routines of the scientists with whom he worked, revealing, for instance, how they spend only "a few dozen nights a year" observing the stars. Mr. Dressler, who lives in Altadena, Calif., where he is an astronomer at the observatories of the Carnegie Institution, said people think astronomers spend their time "peering night after night into a telescope."
"When we teach science we rarely teach how it's done," he said. "People have this idea of white lab coats and test tubes."
The culmination of his group's work was the detection of an enormous unseen mass, which he called the Great Attractor, exerting a gravitational pull on the Milky Way and its neighboring galaxies. That finding shook traditional cosmology to its core. "I didn't know whether this result was going to endure," he said. "There was no question, though, that it changed people's thinking. That is far more important to me. That's the most you can really hope for in science." SCOTT VEALE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Dressler. (MARILYN SANDERS/KNOPF)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: VOYAGE TO THE GREAT ATTRACTOR (BOOK)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); ENGLAND (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); ENGLAND (67%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); BASEBALL (60%); YOUTH SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS; DRESSLER, ALAN ALAN DRESSLER (94%); DAVE BURSTEIN (82%); SANDY FABER (81%); DONALD LYNDEN-BELL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



541 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3108 words

HEADLINE: CREATOR OF A PARADISE LOST;
Eduardo Machado

BYLINE: By Ben Brantley; Ben Brantley is a theater critic for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IT WAS 9:30 A.M. ON AN AMTRAK TRAIN BOUND from New York City to Providence, and the playwright Eduardo Machado, who had gone to bed only three hours earlier, was a very pale shade of green. He had a lot to worry about: he had abruptly left his apartment of five years and moved to a provisional sublet on the Lower East Side; a whopping back-taxes payment had wiped out all his savings, and the evening before, his first "endless night" in over a year, had concluded in a rancorous, Champagne-fueled argument with a friend in a Hell's Kitchen transvestite bar.
Dwarfing all of these concerns was that in four days he would be leaving for Los Angeles, for rehearsals of "Floating Islands," a series of plays Machado has been writing over the past 14 years. It was looking as if the two-part, six-hour production, which opens today, would be the most expensive ever mounted at the Mark Taper Forum, the cradle of such comparably scaled projects as "The Kentucky Cycle" and "Angels in America." And it would be sure to guarantee the kind of mainstream theatrical recognition, and scrutiny, that has thus far eluded the 41-year-old playwright. 
 Yet as the train made its lurching, hangover-stirring way northward, only one thing seemed to truly concern Machado. It wasn't that he had only half the rewrites requested by his director, Oskar Eustis, whom he would be meeting in Providence. It was getting on the plane to Los Angeles on Saturday; it seemed ominous that he couldn't find his ticket.
"I'm a person who can get anxious crossing the street," he said. "Once I get to a place, I'm fine. But that moment of leaving is very hard for me. It always has been."
Leaving, in its most dramatic sense, is something Eduardo Machado knows intimately. It is also what "Floating Islands" is all about. The four-play cycle, which was published in an early version by the Theater Communications Group in 1991, follows four generations of a Cuban family, from the days of Gerardo Machado y Morales (no relation), the "butcher dictator," in the late 1920's, to the era of Fidel Castro; from insular affluence in a suburb of Havana to vulnerable exile in California.
Drawn directly from the family history of the playwright, who came to America from Cuba as a child in 1961, the plays are steeped in both sober economic and political detail and shadowy mysticism, in expansive comedy and unabashed melodrama. On one level, with their portrayal of domestic power struggles as a mirror for a society in flux, they suggest a Hispanic version of Lillian Hellman's "Little Foxes." But earlier productions have also evoked comparisons to such disparate precedents as Garcia Lorca, Chekhov and "I Love Lucy."
The recent exodus of thousands of Cuban refugees has brought an inescapable topicality to "Floating Islands" that Taper executives are well aware of. Moreover, the plays are the first of their scale and visibility to address the experience of the Hispanic immigrant, which, unlike the experiences of the Eastern European Jew and the Asian, has been scantly represented in American drama.
Eustis, who directed "Angels in America" at the Taper and was recently named artistic director of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, acknowledged the importance of stressing the epic qualities of the work.
"The task of this thing," Eustis said, "has been to draw out the big themes enough so that people will know why they're watching six hours of it."
Certainly, big themes now swarm through "Floating Islands," from the corruption that came with the rise of capitalism in Cuba to the role of women and homosexuals in a classically macho society. But there is another story connected with "Floating Islands" as multilayered as the plays themselves. It's about the relationship between art and memory, the complicated reshaping of real lives into literature, the sexual and ethnic stereotypes faced by a gay Cuban-American in theater and what it takes, both economically and psychologically, to survive as a playwright today. Indeed, in many ways, Eduardo Machado is a rich study in at least two of the traits James Joyce identified as essential to an artist's identity: exile and cunning. Silence is another matter.
MACHADO IS A PLUMP MAN with dark, glittering eyes, an unlikely cross between Peter Lorre and a silent-movie Latin lover. He has a slow, rolling gait and a brisk, unswervingly assured manner of speech. He thrives on drama, he says, both on stage and off, yet he describes deeply emotional events with a bemused, singsong lilt that suggests a hard-won sense of distance.
"Eduardo is very cynical and very sentimental," says his friend John Finch, an actor. "I also have to say that there are many, many things that have happened to Eduardo personally that I would not have believed unless I had known for sure that they happened."
One humid afternoon last summer, Machado talked about his family in the comfortable but sparsely furnished sublet he had recently moved to. The only possessions he had brought with him were his clothes, his word processor and his photographs, mostly of his family in Cuba.
The pictures evoke a Proustian sense of vanished luxury and formality: there are men in white linen suits, women with gloves and parasols and children in creaseless sailor outfits. One photograph shows Machado's mother, at 17, on her wedding day. She's seated before a curved, glass-topped vanity table in an elaborate bridal dress with a skirt that seems to go on forever. Her expression before the mirror -- her gaze suspiciously to one side, her lips tensed questioningly -- is not that of a happy bride. "That's where the plays come from, this picture," said Machado. "I always write with it around."
Machado's parents, Hilda and Othon, were 19 and 20 when Eduardo, the first of their five children, was born. His father was studying accounting, and Eduardo spent his first eight years in his paternal grandparents' mansion near Havana, in which several aunts and uncles also lived with their families. His mother's parents lived across the street.
"My father's mother and father didn't have a happy marriage at all," he said. "My grandfather was a very flamboyant man, who caused a lot of people a lot of pain. I think a lot of them drank a lot. So it was a very dramatic life. And there was a revolution going on."
He was particularly close to his maternal grandfather, Oscar Hernandez, the basis for the character in "Floating Islands" named, with singular directness, Oscar Hernandez. Hernandez was an orphan who rose to affluence through a bus company he started with capital invested by his wife's father, a butcher. Hernandez's story is closely paralleled in "The Modern Ladies of Guanabacoa," the first play of the tetralogy, which also draws upon the unsolved murder of Hernandez's father-in-law. And the climactic scene in "In the Eye of the Hurricane," comes from Machado's own memory of Hernandez's buses being driven away by milicianos working for Castro.
Allegiances shifted in Machado's family from support of the strongman Fulgencio Batista, to Castro and back again. Revolution and counterrevolution became the stuff of domestic life, and Machado remembers finding machine guns that his grandfather had stowed in his toy closet, and helping family members bury money.
"I started having these hallucinations," he said, "where vampires and men with canes were coming to get me, and then I would pass out." At 5, he went to his first psychiatrist.
In 1961, on the day before Halloween, Hilda and Othon, taking advantage of a permissive emigration law, put the 8-year-old Eduardo and his younger brother, Jesus, on a plane to Florida. The boys were kept in detention for 12 hours in Havana. In Miami, "they sat us in a little room to make sure we weren't Communists, and gave us shots. I was so terrified, I was numb. I think I remember everything so clearly because I was outside of it all."
The boys lived in Hialeah, Fla., for six months with an aunt and uncle before their parents joined them. Shortly after, the family moved to Canoga Park, Calif. Othon entered an accounting firm, where he rose quickly, and the family moved to a succession of increasingly affluent neighborhoods in the San Fernando Valley. "My father has an obsession with new houses," said Machado. "They get newer and newer, and they seem more and more unreal."
Throughout his childhood, his family kept before him the vision of Cuba as a lost Eden. "If you were, say, having a steak, somebody would eventually say, 'It doesn't taste as good.' Or if you were at the beach at Malibu, my dad would say, 'How can we get into the water when it's so cold?' In Miami, the water was too hot. If you were doing well, and you bought a six-bedroom house, it wasn't as good as the mansion.
"And so you grew up thinking that you weren't really living in the place that you were living in. To this day, it's one of my problems, that I always think I'm not living anywhere."
His only real home is the theater, he said, and he identified his attraction to it early on. By 17, he had become a professional actor and also, with considerable ambivalence, a professional Latino. "When I was growing up, I just always thought we were strange," said Machado, who began attending California public schools before he was fluent in English. "Because my parents were so volatile, I felt I couldn't bring anybody home. But I didn't think I was a minority. I thought we were in exile, which is different.
"When I got an agent, I was shocked. I was told to get a mustache and a tan and call myself Ed Machado." He appeared in many small parts in sitcoms, usually as a waiter with a thick accent.
At home, Machado fought often and bitterly with his father (mostly about "show business and homosexuality," he said). At 18, he left his parent's house to marry Harriett Bradlin, whom he had met in Reichean therapy.
In some ways, his wife's background paralleled his own. She was the child of a Russian Jewish immigrant who had started a lucrative chain of clothing stores. She was also a Marxist, more than 20 years Machado's senior and the mother of eight daughters.
"She was a wild, very attractive woman," said Machado, who today is openly gay. "I think everybody in L.A. thought of themselves as bisexual then, so that's how I thought of myself." The marriage lasted more than a decade, and the couple still keep in touch.
In the late 1970's, Machado began acting in the summer playwrights' festival in Padua Hills, near Los Angeles, where the teachers included Sam Shepard. "The whole experience made me realize it was O.K. to want art," he said. He was also deeply impressed at that time by "the luridness" of the films of the German director Rainer Fassbinder, and he began attending writing workshops conducted by Maria Irene Fornes, the experimental Cuban-American dramatist.
Fornes remembers seeing an early draft of Machado's first play, a one-act about a wealthy Cuban family in the early days of Castro. Permeated with a Gothic sense of the supernatural and built around an incestuous relationship between two brothers, the play's Cuba bore little resemblance to the Cuba she had known. But she was struck, she said, by the work's "boldness and mystery. The characters were not classical types; they were specifically human, complex and interesting."
The title of the play was "Fabiola," which was also the name of one of Machado's aunts, who had died in childbirth a month before he was born and whose possessions remained in the house. When her body was exhumed for reburial, in accordance with Cuban custom, two years after her death, it hadn't decomposed, and Machado said the family believed they saw her ghost in the house. "It haunted me for the longest time," he said. "I still find it a very emotionally packed play to work on." It is now, in an almost completely rewritten version, the third play in the "Floating Islands" cycle.
By the early 1980's, Machado had moved to New York and become a full-time playwright. He hasn't stopped writing plays since, nor lobbying for means of getting them produced. His works -- whose subjects range from a Latin American political prisoner (played by Machado, in the nude) to the crossed-dressed jazz trumpeter Billy Tipton -- have been presented at the Ensemble Studio Theater in New York, the Los Angeles Theater Center and the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven. The reviews have been, in fairly equal parts, encouraging and devastating.
"Some things that were said about him as a writer would take other people years to recover from," said John Finch. "But it was like he had one bad afternoon and moved on."
He was also extremely adept at convincing people to finance his work. "He knows how things work," said Morgan Jenness, director of play development for the New York Shakespeare Festival, which recently commissioned Machado to write a play about the Cuban embargo. Indeed. He has received numerous foundation and government grants (the Pew Charitable Trusts is underwriting $100,000 of this production of "Floating Islands"), has done uncredited rewrites on movie scripts and has taught classes in playwrighting. He has also had patrons, including James Hammerstein, who directed the first production of "Modern Ladies" in 1983 and subsidized Machado for a year's work on the cycle.
"I think what Eduardo did nat urally was write plays with a lot of characters," said Hammerstein, "which is something we allow Chekhov, but almost no one else, to do. He didn't have that hero/antihero thing we're so acquainted with. I had no desire to teach him differently."
By 1991, all of the plays that would become "Floating Islands" had been produced in some form or another. Machado and Eustis wouldn't come upon the idea of doing them as a tetralogy until a year later. The pair had met in 1990 on a theater panel for the National Endowment for the Arts, shortly after the public uproar over the revocation of grants to four performance artists whose material was perceived as obscene.
When John E. Frohnmayer, then the N.E.A. chairman, asked the panel members to introduce themselves and say where they were from, Machado began by announcing, "My name is Eduardo Machado, and I write homoerotic plays."
"But where are you from?" asked Frohnmayer.
"That's where I'm from," answered Machado. After that, all of the panel members identified themselves as producers, directors or writers of "homoerotic plays," whether they were or not.
"That absolutely blew my mind," said Eustis, who in 1991 was asked to oversee a reading at the Taper of "In the Eye of the Hurricane." Eustis, who already knew the play, noticed that it took on a startling psychological intricacy when it was read aloud. The problem was convincing Gordon Davidson, the Taper's artistic director, to do it. "The Taper doesn't do plays," said Eustis. "The Taper does events."
It was Machado who suggested trying a reading of all four plays, which was done at the Taper in April 1992. "By the end, simultaneously, everybody said we should do it," said Eustis. "We knew, of course, there would have to be a ton of rewriting."
And so there has been. One day in Providence in mid-August, the director still seemed to feel the plays needed further condensation and clarification. Part of a discussion of the ending of "Hurricane" went something like this:
Machado: "I see. I have to totally destroy Oscar. I have to destroy him and Manuela and leave them both destroyed and then destroy Mario."
Eustis: "It needs personal consequences."
Machado: "You mean I have to be depressed so I can write it? Thanks. . . . It isn't anything I've ever written. [pause] Okay, I'll do it tomorrow."
Eustis: [pressing Machado's right toe reassuringly] "If you really do finish that relationship, it'll be the first time I feel we're not missing a chapter."
The actual production of the plays has brought its own host of problems. There have been lengthy debates over how many real buses can be on stage, as well as over the inclusion of a simulated rainfall and, for "Fabiola," a supernatural fire. "The rain is in; the fire is out," Gordon Davidson said, although Machado swore, "There's no way there's not going to be flames coming out of a piano."
The debate over whether or not to have an all-Latino cast was more violent, and familiar. Machado and Eustis said the roles should go to those who were best in them, and Machado was accused by "a white person at the Taper in a very high-powered job" of being "ashamed of being Latino." The play now has an all-Latino cast. The actors are, said Eustis, the best who auditioned.
No one is predicting how the Latino audience in Los Angeles will react to "Floating Islands." There is also, of course, a much smaller segment of the audience to consider: Machado's family. His father, the inspiration for the morally adaptable Oswaldo in two of the plays, still hasn't seen or read any of them. ("We don't speak," said Machado.) Hilda Machado, however, knows all of them.
Divorced from Othon for more than 20 years, she still speaks little English. In a phone conversation translated by her daughter Michelle, she admitted she had little difficulty identifying the models for the play's characters, including herself. "I'm a little nervous," she said, of the Taper production. "But it's a play. It may be based on certain things, but part of it is made up. If people think everything's exactly like us, then they don't know us very well."
Machado has been known to leave rehearsals of "Floating Islands" muttering, "I can't spend any more time with my family." But he also feels there's a new distance between the characters and their prototypes.
His feelings about Cuba have changed, too. For years, he said, "I saw it as something that had made me neurotic, that had cheated me out of my life. When I was growing up, at first I blamed Fidel; then, when I was 19 or 20, I blamed my parents for being right-wing bourgeois pigs. Then you reach a point where you say, 'This is not simple; it's this very complicated mess.' "
In early August, before the recent exodus put a new strain on Cuban-American relations, Machado considered returning to his homeland for the first time to do research for the plays. "I'm supposed to go back this weekend, and I'm not going to do it," he said, and, for once, his voice sounded weary. "I couldn't go now. It's just one thing too many."
Anyway, he says, "I think, except for the plays, I've forgotten Cuba. I think I'm so American now. But then I can always go back to 'Floating Islands' and be Cuban for a couple of hours."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Machado's mother on her wedding day: Not your typical bride.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: FLOATING ISLANDS (PLAY)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%); RED HAT INC (57%); THEATER COMMUNICATIONS GROUP (52%); MARK TAPER FORUM (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARK TAPER FORUM (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); TRAINS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FAMILY (65%); 

PERSON: BRANTLEY, BEN; MACHADO, EDUARDO; EUSTIS, OSKAR FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



542 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1947 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY VIEW;
A Good, Sharp 'Paddywack'

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby 

 BODY:
DANIEL MAGEE'S "PADDYWACK," WHICH is opening the new season at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, is an angry play, and so entertaining that not until the final scene do you get the full measure of the intensity of the playwright's feelings. Though set in London and free of poeticizing, "Paddywack" is as Irish as anything by Brian Friel. The scale of the play is small, but it's also as politically committed as Sean O'Casey's early work. By saying that, I don't mean to place Mr. Magee, who comes from the Roman Catholic working class in Belfast, in a league with either Mr. Friel or O'Casey. It's only to emphasize that on the basis of this one play, he seems to be a refreshingly aggressive new Irish voice. No sad songs for him. He speaks tough, efficient prose.
"Paddywack" is initially about bigotry, but it's also about politics. At the play's center is Damien, a young Belfast construction worker who says he has come to London looking for work. He's polite and wellspoken, but he's also terribly sure of himself. For a member of the working class, he has a surprisingly large vocabulary, as well as the kind of ferocious wit that withers the opposition in any argument. 
 It's no wonder that he's a figure of some mystery and then of suspicion in the seedy digs he shares with three other men: Brian, a Cockney who blames the Irish (Paddys), black and Pakistani immigrants for all of England's (and his) problems; Michael, an older Irishman who, to survive as a laborer in London, has become almost as bigoted and right wing as Brian, and Colin, a piously left-wing, upper-middle-class fellow, a product of the London School of Economics, who is living in digs as part of his field study of the underclass.
Brian's suggestion that Damien may be an active member of the Irish Republican Army isn't at first taken seriously by their other two mates. Little by little, though, Damien appears to incriminate himself. He stays apart from the others, coming and going at all hours. There is a kind of righteousness about him that antagonizes both Brian and Michael. The possibility of I.R.A. connections dazzles the impressionable Colin and, more importantly, Colin's upper-class friend, Annette, whose political activism is limited to marches and bicycle rides on behalf of good causes.
Damien plays it cool, denying nothing and refusing to condemn the I.R.A., which is what a serious terrorist might be expected to do. Is Damien or isn't he? He doesn't help himself by suggesting that Brian, and all of the other Brians in England, might more profitably question the impulse behind the I.R.A.'s terrorist activities. A play that begins as a comedy of mismatched personalities and unequal minds, condemned to share impossibly close living quarters, escalates into the primal struggle that is the play's harrowing climax.
The Long Wharf production, directed by John Tillinger, has the benefit of two excellent actors from the London cast of "Paddywack," which was staged at the Off West End Cockpit Theater last March. They are James Nesbitt (Damien), who has the implacable presence of someone who may possibly be a saint, and Michael O'Hagan, whose Michael has lost both home and backbone after 10 years in England. The American actors are equally persuasive in equally rich roles: Alessandro Nivola (Colin), Sarah Long (Annette), Patricia Kilgarriff (the landlady) and Denis O'Hare, who's wickedly funny and vicious as Brian, sharing the play's most riveting moments with Damien.
In some ways, "Paddywack" is an unfashionably well-made play, meaning that after the first scene, there is never any doubt about the points Mr. Magee wants to make, but it is so well written that those points still surprise and shock. Mr. Magee's dialogue can be both raucously funny and cruel: "I don't hate Pakis or Paddys," says Brian early on. "I just don't see the need for 'em . . . not nowadays, what with robots and the like."
For all of its craft, "Paddywack" is not slick. Within Damien there is an ambiguous heart. Though Brian is a commonplace bigot with fascist leanings, Damien flaunts his principles with an arrogance that eventually invites disaster. He's a victim, but he's also a perpetrator.
"Paddywack," a good play, will be running at the Long Wharf through next Sunday.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
'Unexpected Tenderness'
 Near the beginning of Israel Horovitz's "Unexpected Tenderness," young Roddy Stern (Jonathan Marc Sherman) says in an aside to the audience, "I know what you're thinking: a nice little ethnic comedy." The boy is right. The makings for a nice little ethnic comedy are all there on the stage at the WPA Theater. The audience is introduced to a closely knit, Jewish working-class family composed of a loving mother and father, a sensitive boy in his early teens, his slightly older sister and their ancient, exhausted paternal grandparents. "Unexpected Tenderness" first brings Neil Simon to mind. Then we seem to be in the territory explored by Herb Gardner in "Conversations With My Father," but there's a major difference.
The father in the Gardner play is a paragon of easily expressed love, compassion and understanding compared with Archie Stern (Steve Ryan). Archie adores his wife, Molly (Caitlin Clarke), to the point of obsessive jealousy. He says he's leaving for work, then stands outside and peers through the kitchen window as if expecting to catch Molly in the arms of her lover, even before the kids have left for school. It's a family joke but, as the performance proceeds, the joke grows increasingly dim until it disappears altogether. "Unexpected Tenderness" turns into a nice little ethnic drama about serious assault and battery.
It's also a difficult play to assess since the comic moments, having the elements of shtick, don't have the weight of the dramatically brutal marital confrontations. Archie is in desperate need of medical help. To enjoy this play fully, you need to be in the same state of denial that poor Molly has been in throughout her marriage.
The subsidiary material in "Unexpected Tenderness" is ethnic-funny, and sometimes ethnic-funny with a sharper than usual edge. It comes as no surprise that young Roddy learns from all of the mayhem he witnesses at home. Yet never has a play's happy ending seemed quite so bleak.
The performances, under the direction of Steve Zuckerman, are all that he and Mr. Horovitz could ask for; New York seems to have an infinite supply of good actors. The production continues at the WPA Theater through Nov. 6.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
'Killer Joe'
 "Killer Joe," now being given a physically modest but intelligent production by the 29th Street Repertory Theater and Darren Lee Cole, is a first play by Tracy Letts, and what a play it is: an often funny, heedlessly offensive comedy about greed, matricide, dope dealing and the (in this case) hopeless all-American dream of bettering oneself. Mr. Letts is a Chicago-based actor most recently in the Steppenwolf Theater's production of Steve Martin's "Picasso at the Lapin Agile." It just may be that he also knows how to write.
The setting is your basic, worn-out living-dining-kitchen area of a trailer home parked somewhere outside Dallas. Sharing this space are Chris Smith (Thomas Wehrle), whose jittery mannerisms may come from drugs or from seeing too many Emilio Estevez movies; his layabout dad, Ansel (Leo Farley); his stepmother, Sharla (Linda June Larson), who walks around wearing curlers in her hair, a T-shirt and nothing else, and his pretty, quiet sister, Dottie (Danna Lyons), who has preserved her virginity into her 20's.
The situation is this: Chris, in need of money fast, persuades the family to hire someone to murder his mother (Ansel's first wife) for her $50,000 insurance policy, of which Dottie is the beneficiary. The hit man turns out to be a moonlighting Dallas police detective named Joe (David Mogentale). When the family can't whomp up Joe's $25,000 fee, he accepts the use of the waiflike Dottie as his retainer.
"Killer Joe" is constructed of comic and sometimes terrifying reversals: Joe treats Dottie with reverence one minute and the next minute is humiliating Sharla, forcing her to simulate fellatio with him in front of the family. Before he has finished with the Smith family, everyone except Dottie has double-crossed someone else. Joe is an avenging angel.
As played by Mr. Mogentale, Joe has the presence of Gary Sinise in Sam Shepard's "True West." For all his nice manners and genteel vocabulary (he compliments Dottie for fixing "a lovely dinner"), Joe is a steely and ruthless character, the only fixed point in a chaotic universe. Mr. Mogentale is very good, as are all the members of the cast. Wilson Milam, who has worked as an assistant director at Steppenwolf, has directed "Killer Joe" with authority and invention. He possesses an unusual ability: he goes too far without actually going over the top. "Killer Joe" isn't camp. Though it's not always easy to watch, it's shock theater of consistent style. It runs through Nov. 30.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
'Blaming Mom'
 David Edelstein is a former colleague who was the film critic for The New York Post and, before that, a critic for The Village Voice. Now he's on his way to becoming a playwright. He's the author of "Blaming Mom," a longish one-act comedy about urban relationships, and a curtain-raiser, "Soupy and Adena," playing at the Ohio Theater on Wooster Street through next Sunday. Mr. Edelstein writes funny lines, which are about evenly distributed between the two pieces presented by the Watermark Theater. Since "Blaming Mom" is so much longer than the curtain-raiser, "Soupy" inevitably seems the more successful.
It's a breezy, live-action cartoon about the problems of Superguy (Jordan Lage), called Soupy, when he saves a pretty, cigarette-smoking young woman, Adena (Kristen Lee Kelly), from the inferno caused by a live butt tossed into a wastebasket. Adena may be in the air, but she's not yet swept off her feet. Soupy is not the fastest mind in the sky. "Would you like me if I couldn't fly?" he asks with jocklike confidence, jumping light-years ahead of Adena, who hasn't yet expressed any preference at all.
Adena is a hard-sell. Unlike Lois Lane, she's not impressed by flying over Manhattan in the middle of the night, especially in the arms of a guy who doesn't always look where he's swooping. The piece is cleverly staged by Nela Wagman, the director of the double bill, and played with delight by the two-member cast.
"Blaming Mom" is about Willie (Sean Runnette) and his unhappy relations with women, all of which can be traced back to his terrible Jewish mother. She insisted that he get a hair transplant in his teens because she was too young to have a bald son. Now in the full flower of his yuppiedom, Willie believes that a person needs a mom to define himself against.
This is not material of the first freshness, but in Lucy, one of Willie's girlfriends, Mr. Edelstein has written a marvelously vivid character. A woman who treats her lovers as if they were puppies in need of obedience training, she's played with priceless lack of tact by Patricia Scanlon. The rest of the piece is both shapeless and very familiar.
Onward.
 
PADDYWACK Daniel Magee's play is small in scale and big in political commitment.
 
UNEXPECTED TENDERNESS In Israel Horovitz's drama, shtick leads to assault.
 
KILLER JOE A comedy about matricide goes too far without going over the top.
 
BLAMING MOM Willie the yuppie lays all his woman problems on you know who.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Marc Sherman, left, and Steve Ryan in "Unexpected Tenderness" -- Ethnic-funny with a sharper than usual edge. (Carol Rosegg/"Unexpected Tenderness")(pg. 22); James Nesbitt in "Paddywack" -- Playing it cool. (Charles Erickson/"Paddywack")(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PADDYWACK (PLAY); UNEXPECTED TENDERNESS (PLAY); KILLER JOE (PLAY); BLAMING MOM (PLAY); SOUPY AND ADENA (PLAY)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LONG WHARF THEATER (NEW HAVEN); WPA THEATER; 29TH STREET REPERTORY THEATER COMPANY LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG WHARF THEATER (NEW HAVEN); WPA THEATER; 29TH STREET REPERTORY THEATER COMPANY LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); POLITICS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); TERRORISM (60%); RELIGION (55%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT; MAGEE, DANIEL; HOROVITZ, ISRAEL; LETTS, TRACY; EDELSTEIN, DAVID BRIAN FRIEL (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



543 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
What It Costs To Phone Home

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
A TRACTOR-TRAILER driver outside a diner in upstate New York was observed by Martin R. Schemer of New York shouting into a pay phone that if the operator did not connect him to his regular long-distance company, a repair crew would have to be sent out. Clearly rebuffed, he backed over the booth, crushing it.
Few phone-users are equipped to do this, but many wish they could. The angriest are people who cannot get through to their long-distance company, and end up being billed by a company they do not know at rates they consider outlandish. 
 A friend called New York from the Cape Cod National Seashore in August, charging the call to a credit card, and was billed $8.48 for two daytime minutes; a relative called Massachusetts from rural Maine, also on a credit card, and paid $13.74 for an evening call of six minutes. As it happens, both were served by a company called Oncor Communications, an "alternate operator service." The per-minute cost of the two calls averaged $2.77. This is pretty steep; for comparison, the same credit-card calls placed through the A.T.&T. system would have cost $1.36 and $1.76 in all.
Trying to call home, or anyplace, continues to be one of the difficult aspects of travel, and complaints to this department as well as the Federal Communications Commission demonstrate that price is the top source of distress.
Gordon C. Kimble, a spokesman for Oncor, based in Bethesda, Md., said that the cost of calls was affected by the higher commissions his company paid to the owners of the phones. "We go to many rural areas and urban centers where our competitors don't because of the low rate of return," he said. The company now provides service from 150,000 pay phones and 600,000 hotel rooms nationally, mostly hotels with fewer than 100 rooms, he said.
As to how Oncor got to be the provider at Nauset Light Beach, Andy Ringgold, the site manager, is baffled. He said the National Seashore signed a new contract last January for local service to be provided by Nynex for five years, with A.T.&T. specified as the long-distance carrier. He said his contact at the local phone company had not called back to explain.
In contrast, in the Rocky Mountain region of the National Park Service, according to Jeff Craig, in the concessions department in Denver, supervisors were advised not to allow "alternate operator services" to hold long-distance contracts. There is no systemwide policy in the Park Service, said James A. Owen, also in the concessions division.
 
Requiring an Alternative
 In March 1993, an important rule under the Federal Telephone Operator Services Act came into force. This required hotels to fix room phones so that guests could dial the long-distance service they wanted; after the breakup of A.T.&T., electronic blocks often forced guests to use the service the hotel chose. The only exemption left, according to Kurt Schroeder of the F.C.C., applies to hotel phones where removing the blockage would cost $15 or more. These must be adapted by 1997.
However, the major long-distance operators say customers are still complaining that they are blocked from using a five-digit access code known as 10-XXX to get to their service. In response, Sprint, A.T.&T. and M.C.I. emphasize the 800-number access. (These numbers are given in the adjoining box.) It is a pain in the neck: Customers must dial 11 digits for access, 11 digits for the number they are calling and 14 digits for the credit-card number.
I have met pay phones that block these calls, too, going dead after 800 is dialed. This is against the law and should be reported to the state utilities commission on an in-state call and to the F.C.C. otherwise. The Enforcement Division of the Common Carrier Bureau, F.C.C., is at 2025 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20554. Complaints should be in writing.
Hotels do not usually block 800 numbers, although they may surcharge these calls. They are permitted to add a surcharge for reaching a long-distance company, if it is equal for all companies. And they're allowed to add a surcharge for other 800-number calls (they must provide cards specifying surcharges).
 
What the Hotels Charge
 The trend is away from surcharges. Marc Pujalet, Westin's senior vice president for marketing, said that phone charges ranked No. 1 in surveys of guest complaints. Other chains gave similar reports. Westin hotels charge 50 cents to $1 for access to long-distance companies and nothing for calls to 800 numbers. Mr. Pujalet said Westin was doing research to find a way to lower this complaint level. One problem, he said, is that for five years or so individual hotels have been making a profit from phone service.
Here are policies of other hotel chains on surcharges to reach long-distance services; these data do not cover calls charged to the room.
Over the summer, Marriott hotels changed its policy, eliminating a 75-cent charge for reaching a long-distance company. So far, 170 of the company's 202 domestic hotels have made this change, according to Gordon D. Lambourne, a spokesman.
The motels in the Hospitality Franchise Systems, Days Inn, Howard Johnson, Ramada, Super 8 and Park Inns, set their own policies, according to Lisa Garb, a spokeswoman. She says the management believes few charge for access to long-distance companies.
The Choice group is "pushing" its Quality, Comfort, Clarion, Sleep, Rodeway, Econo Lodge and Friendship motels to provide free access, according to Betsy Bromberg O'Rourke, a spokeswoman. She said 85 percent of the Sleep Inns provided free access, and 50 percent of the motels in the other chains.
At Sheraton, according to Lisa Dickason, a no-charge policy is being phased in. The premium-rate Club Level eliminated the access charge in April. On Sept. 1, the 63 North American hotels owned, leased or managed by Sheraton itself eliminated the charge. On Jan. 1, all 207 franchise properties will follow. Any fee must be below $1, she said.
At the Radisson hotels, the new premium-rate Business Class rooms levy no charge. In regular rooms, the hotel is urged to make no charge but there is no top limit, said Thomas J. Polski, a spokesman. He said 50 or 75 cents was the usual charge.
At Hyatt hotels also, the premium-cost Business Plan rooms make no charge. Otherwise, the hotel may charge up to 75 cents for access to a long-distance carrier.
Hilton hotels set a policy of no surcharges for access in June 1993, and by this month, according to Kendra Walker, 154 of 240 hotels had this policy in effect.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS532420 OFFICE MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (55%); SIC7377 COMPUTER RENTAL & LEASING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); MAINE, USA (71%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) AT&T SYSTEMS LEASING CORP (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); MAINE, USA (71%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RATES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; NYTRAVEL; HOTELS AND MOTELS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); BEACHES (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); MOUNTAINS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



544 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2650 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Temporary Place to Call Home

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
IT can be a nightmare. In early summer, Dr. Arthur I. Pober, just named head of the video-game industry's ratings council, quickly had to find a temporary place to stay. The lease on his old apartment had expired and the co-op he had recently bought and was renovating was not yet fit for human habitation. So he took a room at a nearby hotel, not far from his office.
"I knew I was in trouble the moment I got in the elevator," Dr. Pober said. "The bellman looked at me and said: 'Why are you staying here? I wouldn't stay here.' " 
 His room, he said, "was like something out of 'Midnight Cowboy.' " One evening he came back to find it had been given to someone else.
"They said they thought I had checked out," he said. "I told them I hadn't and asked why, if I had left, my clothes would still be in the room?" His television had no buttons in it -- he had to put a pencil in the hole to turn the set on.
After four days, he said, he left, stayed with friends for a while and wound up "sleeping on rubble in my apartment as it was being constructed."
It doesn't have to be that way. People seeking short-term stays in Manhattan these days have more and more choices.
They may, like Dr. Pober, be having their new apartment renovated. Or they may be having their current home repaired. They may be moving to New York and looking for a permanent apartment, or be here for a few months on business, or for medical treatment.
But whatever the reason, there are an increasing number of options for people seeking temporary quarters. Two top-of-the-line residence hotels have opened recently, catering largely to a deep-pocketed corporate trade. Middle-level residential hotels have studios that start at $3,200 a month. Short-term leases can be had in condominiums and town houses. Special arrangements can be negotiated at regular hotels. And at least one new building, the Mondrian on East 54th Street, has set aside two floors for short-term residents.
There are, real-estate brokers say, two prime reasons behind the increase: The real-estate recession of the early 1990's created a need to fill suddenly empty hotel rooms and apartments, and entrepreneurs have increasingly recognized what had been a somewhat neglected niche in the marketplace.
Two luxury buildings established specifically for this market on the east side of Manhattan are the Sutton Hotel and the Bristol Plaza.
The Sutton, on East 56th Street just west of First Avenue, opened in 1992 after more than 10 years in mothballs and a $17 million, 18-month renovation to turn it into a residence hotel intended for stays of a month or more. The owner, Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd. and its hotel unit, the Peninsula Group, created in old-world style 85 studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments ranging from 400 to 1,500 square feet.
The units have full dining areas and kitchens with all utensils, refrigerators with ice makers, stoves and microwave ovens, built-in coffee makers, color cable televisions and VCR's. The hotel has a health club with a 55-foot-long lap pool. Apartments on the upper floors have terraces, balconies or solariums. And there is full maid service. The minimum stay is 30 days.
David and Rosemarie Robinson came to New York at the end of the summer with their three sons, 2 to 16 years old, because they decided they wanted the eldest, Max, to experience an American education.
They had lived mainly in London and Ireland in recent years and Max had gone to boarding schools there. (Mr. Robinson is an executive with a Los Angeles-based recording company, American Recordings, but spends much of his time traveling around Europe.) They enrolled Max in the Loyola School on the East Side, where he's a junior, and booked rooms at a hotel while they looked for an apartment. But finding an apartment for five for the next two years has proved more difficult than they thought -- "three children is quite a lot of children for Manhattan," Mrs. Robinson said -- and the hotel was just too public and impersonal for them. So they went to the Sutton. And they are happy.
"This is heaven," Mrs. Robinson said in her two-bedroom suite. "We have the privacy of home with all the comforts of a hotel, all the care of a hotel. Someone is washing your towels. We can cook meals in the kitchen so we don't have to eat out all the time. There's a washer-dryer in the health club. And the kids' room has desks so they can do their homework."
There are limits, of course; two bedrooms and three children can get a bit crowded. The youngest son sleeps on a cot in his parents' room. "I was the one who wished for him, so I get to keep him," Mrs. Robinson says with a laugh.
CLAES Y. LOVEN, the Sutton's general manager, said he encountered a fair number of out-of-towners and foreigners looking for more permanent quarters. Mr. Loven said his clientele also included diplomats coming to New York for the United Nations General Assembly sessions; Wall Street corporations -- among them Morgan Stanley, J. P. Morgan & Company and Bankers Trust -- seeking housing for trainees and out-of-town employees; people coming to town for medical treatment at nearby hospitals; residents of Sutton Place and other nearby areas who are renovating their apartments or cleaning up asbestos problems, and the spouse in a pending divorce who does not get to keep the marriage home.
Film-production companies also use the Sutton to put up cast and crew while they're in town filming on location.
The films the Sutton has been home to include "Carlito's Way," "It Could Happen to You" and "Die Hard New York."
"One reason they stay here and not at a regular hotel is that we provide complete privacy," Mr. Loven said. "This is not a place people come and sit outside waiting for a star to show up."
Like many things in Manhattan, life at the Sutton does not come cheap. Studios go for from $3,900 to $4,700 a month, one-bedrooms from $4,500 to $8,000, two-bedrooms from $7,500 to $9,500 and tower and penthouse suites from $7,500 to $12,500.
(Rates at all the hotels are subject to hotel taxes of 14 1/4 percent plus an occupancy tax of $2 a night; after 90 days of a stay, the rate drops to 10 percent plus the $2 a night, and after 180 days, there is no tax, and the previous tax payments, except for the $2 a night, are reimbursed.)
The coffee served in the lobby each morning, though, is free.
But also like many things in Manhattan, there are enough people with enough money to take advantage of what the Sutton offers. Mr. Loven said that business was good, with occupancy averaging more than 90 percent.
Business is also good at the Bristol Plaza, at 210 East 65th Street, near Third Avenue.
The Bristol opened in 1988, in tandem with a higher-rise condominium next door, and as an apartment-hotel it caters to essentially the same clientele as the Sutton, providing luxury to guests with a minimum 30-day stay.
In its 167 studio, one- and two-bedroom units, the Bristol also provides full kitchens with microwaves, refrigerators, ice-makers and coffee makers, full maid service, color cable televisions and VCR's. It also has on-premises garage and valet parking, laundry rooms on each floor and a health club with a 50-foot pool, a retractable dome roof and an open sun deck.
Rates start at $4,200 a month for a studio. One-bedrooms, with wraparound bay windows, go for up to $6,000.
Paul Beckwith, a refugee of nine years in Los Angeles, arrived at the Bristol Plaza on Sept. 1 at 2:30 in the afternoon. He had decided "after being shaken within an inch of my life" in the Los Angeles earthquake that he needed to focus more of his business time on the East Coast.
"It had been concentrated west of the Mississippi," he said.
So he bought a studio for his business on East 73d Street, then bought an apartment in the building next door and brought his computers and his personal effects east to expand his work as a publisher of information directories.
His publications include the International Star Car Directory, which provides lists of vintage automobiles, boats, trucks and planes to creators of films, advertisements and television shows who might need them. He knew that his new office and home would not be ready until Nov. 1, but he needed to begin work in the East at the end of the summer.
"I didn't want to have to live in dust," he said, so he decided to stay at the Bristol Plaza.
"When I arrived I wanted coffee, and they had coffee ready and waiting for me," Mr. Beckwith said, adding that what he appreciates most about the Bristol Plaza over a standard hotel is the personalized service and the sense of security.
"I HAVE the same maid five days a week," he said. "She knows me and knows what I like. And as far as security is concerned, this place is like Fort Knox. A regular hotel is a public building. The traffic is limited here. And the people know you. It's nice to come home after a day when things haven't worked out and have the person at the desk say, 'Mr. Beckwith, how are you?' "
There are many other alternatives to the Sutton and the Bristol. Manhattan East Suite Hotels has about 1,900 studio, one- and two-bedroom suites in its nine hotels, eight of which are on the East Side. All have fully equipped kitchens and offer full hotel services.
Brooke D. Barrett, the partner in charge of sales, said that the hotels offered daily as well as monthly rates, with about 25 to 30 percent of its business coming from stays of a month or longer.
"We get a lot of corporate business from Wall Street," Ms. Barrett said, "from training programs or from people who come here for six months to work on special projects."
The hotels include the Surrey at 76th Street and Madison Avenue, Lyden Gardens at 215 East 64th Street, the Dumont Plaza on 34th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues, and the Southgate Tower at Seventh Avenue and 31st Street.
Rates vary: A studio suite at the Southgate starts at $3,200, while one at the Surrey, with its more prestigious location, begins at $5,200. A two-bedroom suite is $6,600 and up at the Southgate, $7,500 and up at the Dumont and $9,800 and up at the Surrey.
ON the Upper West Side, one possible choice is the Olcott Hotel, at 27 West 72d Street. The Olcott, longtime home of the actor Martin Balsam and the Oscar he won for "A Thousand Clowns," and one-time residence of Tiny Tim (he of Johnny Carson fame), offers about 40 percent of its 200 rooms and suites to temporary guests. Most of them, said Lee Rosen, the general manager, stay for one to two weeks.
The Olcott has a long tradition of providing temporary homes for performers at Lincoln Center and the Metropolitan Opera, as well as those in Broadway and Off Broadway plays who are looking for a place to stay for the short or long run.
"We have performers from 'Les Miserables,' 'The Phantom of the Opera' and 'Miss Saigon,' " Mr. Rosen said, "those who are appearing in the Broadway shows as well as those who are preparing to go into the road companies."
"It's homey," Mr. Rosen said. "One of the things people find most attractive here is that the staff knows everybody. We have very little turnover. It's like a home away from home. That's what sets us apart. We get a lot of people who can afford to stay in other places but choose us because they know us."
Weekly rates, not including tax, are $500 for a studio and $680 for a one-bedroom suite; there are a few two-bedrooms for $975. Maid service is included. The suites have cable television and cooking pantries that include refrigerators, pots, pans and sinks. There are no stoves; instead there is what is essentially a two-burner hot plate.
"You can get up and make your own coffee every day," Mr. Rosen said. "And on the West Side, everybody delivers."
Battery Park City, with its proximity to Wall Street, provides several buildings that cater to the temporary crowd. Liberty View, at 99 Battery Place, has 120 units rented primarily to the corporate market. Other Battery Park City buildings offering short-term rentals include 200, 3 and 380 Rector Place.
Some companies choose to buy or rent their own apartments throughout Manhattan to put up trainees and out-of-town visitors. J. P. Morgan & Company, for instance, has taken units at Lincoln Square, the Millennium Partners high-rise on Broadway and 68th Street, to house employees participating in training programs.
And some individuals choose to find an apartment to rent for a short term. One way to do so is to consult the listings of a rental agency.
"There are a whole spectrum of what we call professional listers," said Nancy Packes, head of Feathered Nest, one of the major rental agencies. "There are individuals who own two or more properties that they lease on an interim basis, who make furnished condominiums and town houses available for short-term rental."
The problem, Ms. Packes said, is that there are only a small number available these days. "This is the tightest market I have seen in 15 years," she said. "The picture at this moment is extremely limited. I would say there are maybe 100 such apartments available in Manhattan right now."
RENTS vary, she said, but all are at a premium over unfurnished rentals of a year or more, and the shorter the term of a lease the higher the premium. A one-bedroom apartment that might go for $2,000 a month in a lease of a year or more, she said, would cost about $2,500 a month for a six-month lease and about $2,800 a month for three months.
"And in this marketplace, the commission is almost always paid by the tenant," she said.
The commission for a lease of one or two months is a half-month's rent, she said; for three to six months, it's a month's rent, and for six months to a year it's 15 percent of the total rent.
"But the bottom line is that a furnished apartment rental is invariably cheaper than even the most reasonable apartment hotel," she said. The rental, though, does not include the hotel services.
For those who do not wish either an apartment rental or an apartment hotel, another alternative is a standard hotel. Regular hotels have always had longer-term guests, but Ms. Packes said that in recent years the number of rooms set aside for such tenants had increased.
"Every major hotel has some kind of program to promote longer-term rentals, primarily to corporate tenants," she said. "The programs kicked in when occupancy went down as a result of the recession, and the hotels have cultivated them."
Some condominiums are also cultivating short-term leases. The owners of the 179-unit Mondrian, which opened last November at 250 East 54th Street, at Second Avenue, have set aside two floors with 12 furnished units specifically for leases of three months or more.
Will Zeckendorf, the rental and sales agent for the building, said that a furnished studio rented for about $2,600 a month, a one-bedroom for about $4,000 and a two-bedroom for about $6,000. The apartments, of course, come with no hotel or maid services.
"We're spending the first year figuring out whether to expand the program," Mr. Zeckendorf said. "The issue of turnover is a problem. People don't renew at these rates. We rent the apartments as quickly as we can but it takes time to turn them over and the vacancy rate goes up. With an unfurnished unit and a one- or two-year lease, there is very little down time."
A few blocks away, back at the Sutton, Mrs. Robinson hopes that, as much as she likes the Sutton, she will not have to renew. She has booked for only a month but knows she may have to stay longer.
"It depends on how difficult it is to find a place in Manhattan," she said.
And she knows that if she is still there when her youngest son turns 3, the Sutton will be in for a severe challenge.
"It will be a real test of the hotel," she said, "to see if it can survive a birthday party for 3-year-olds."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosmarie Robinson with sons Milo, 2 1/2, Jack, 10, and Max, 16, in their suite at the Sutton Hotel at 330 East 56th Street. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Paul Beckwith at the Bristol Plaza on East 65th Street, where he lives and works as a publisher of information directories. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Sutton Hotel at 330 East 56th Street, just west of First Ave. Studios there start at $3,900 a month and two-bedroom units for $7,500. The Bristol Plaza Hotel is at 210 East 65th Street near Third Avenue. Studios start at $4,200. One bedroom unites may cost up to $6,000 a month. (Chris Maynard/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SUTTON HOTEL (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN ROSEMARIE ROBINSON (80%); ARTHUR I POBER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



545 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Trouble On the Terrace

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS 

 BODY:
A TERRACE or a balcony in a New York City co-op provides a personal oasis in a concrete desert. But they can prove troublesome.
One problem is that owners' proprietary feelings about these treasured spaces are increasingly running afoul of co-op corporations' needs to make sure that the entire structure, of which a terrace or balcony is an integral part, remains safe and habitable. 
 This, lawyers say, is leading to a growing number of disputes as buildings get older and incidents of water leaks -- the most common problem associated with terraces and balconies -- increase.
Arguments tend to erupt about who must foot the bill -- the shareholder with the personal outdoor space or the corporation as a whole. Technically, the answer is that virtually all such areas are the responsibility of the co-op, noted Richard Siegler, a partner with Strook & Strook & Lavan, a New York law firm that handles many co-ops. But quarrels immediately arise for two reasons.
First, the co-op may insist the damage is a result of misuse by the shareholder. For example, heavy or leaking potted plants may have wrecked the underlying surface long before its time. And if the co-op is under pressure to trim costs, Mr. Siegler said, it is loath to spend thousands of dollars that might legitimately be picked up by someone else.
Second, even if the responsibility is not in dispute, the shareholder may panic at the thought of the upheaval and security risk associated with opening the doors to a repair crew. In those instances access becomes the core of the controversy.
"They resent the intrusion," said Aaron Shmulewitz, a partner with Parker Duryee Rosoff & Haft, a New York law firm with 130 co-op clients.
Terrace and balcony cases can drag on interminably because they often involveshareholders with deep pockets and the strong resolve.
It's been nearly two years, for example, since the 278-unit co-op at 200 East 27th Street began trying to gain access to a terrace belonging to Douglas Colbert, one of its shareholders, to make repairs. Although the board won an injunction permitting access in October 1993, claiming the health and safety of other residents was being adversely affected, Mr. Colbert won a stay, contending that his objections had never been brought before the judge.
"Mr. Colbert had done custom work on the terrace," explained Paul Loomie, his lawyer. "He was worried. He was not even convinced the work was necessary."
Moreover, Mr. Loomie said, his client still has claims outstanding for damages from past terrace work that the co-op refuses to acknowledge.
And so the job remains undone.
Clearly, new ways may have be found to keep both sides from continually taking expensive and time-consuming pot shots at each other.
Mr. Siegler favors rewriting the house rules associated with terraces and balconies to further minimize wear and tear and more clearly define rights and responsibilities. The rules need to be far more specific, he said, and include suggestions as well as prohibitions.
For example, a restriction against excessive weight might also include a suggestion to use railroad ties (also known as dunnage beams) to create a raised platform under planters. A platform allows drainage and avoids the possibility that roots could seep through the base undetected. It also spreads the weight more evenly. Automatic sprinkling systems need to be abolished, Mr. Siegler said, because so many have proven unreliable. And there must be requirements concerning clear drains.
"When people go away for a long period of time the leaves pile up and clog the drains," he said. This, he has found, causes a backup of water that seeps into walls. Thus, he said, shareholders should also be required to notify building staff to clear those drains whenever the owner is away.
Mr. Siegler's comprehensive four-page list of restrictions, compiled over two years, is so detailed it is almost impossible to misconstrue what is acceptable (very little, in fact). Small wonder, therefore, that so far it has been adopted by only one co-op. A half dozen more have adopted slightly less onerous rules adapted from the original.
More acceptable, however, is Mr. Siegler's companion idea of requiring anyone taking a terrace unit to acknowledge his or her awareness of the rules by signing a copy before even setting foot in the unit.
"This way," said Mr. Siegler, "they're more likely to abide by them."
Bruce A. Cholst, an associate with Rosen & Livingston, another Manhattan law firm specializing in co-ops, also believes in taking a more pre-emptive stance to keep litigation at bay. He favors regular and mandatory inspections of personal outdoor spaces to help lessen the damage that can fester undetected for years.
The right of entry, he points out, is already in the proprietary lease. Although he admits the idea won't be popular, it could become more acceptable, he maintained, once the economic benefits were more widely recognized by all.
Mr. Shmulewitz believes there are nevertheless times when compromise makes for better neighbors. Recently, for example, he handled a case involving a shareholder with a terrace at the 88-unit co-op at 225 East 73d Street. Workmen needed to get in to replace its parapet walls and tile floor. The shareholder, Delilah Henry, had been denying access because she worked out of her apartment and feared the dirt, commotion and noxious fumes, said her lawyer, Richard Blatt of Lebensfeld & Associates in Manhattan.
Further, she was not convinced that an adequate job would be done, and the work was scheduled for the only season when she could use the terrace. She also wanted the co-op to move her planters but it refused, saying she might later insist the moving had killed her plants.
The co-op threatened court action to gain access, but a compromise was reached: The co-op agreed to move her planters after she agreed to sign a release absolving it of any responsibility for plant damage. The work started in September.
Another sign of the future, said Mr. Shmulewitz, was the recent agreement worked out by a client co-op on East 52d Street.
An upper-floor resident had requested private rights to space outside his unit for a roof terrace. Since other shareholders would not be adversely affected, the co-op worked out a deal under which he bought the rights to a 350-square-foot area. He paid for his space by buying additional shares and will thus also pay additional monthly maintenance.
This gave the co-op a cash infusion. However, the agreement also included specific language regarding the rights and responsibilities connected with the space.
"It was an attempt to go forward in a way that should avoid the sort of contention and litigation we've seen in the past," said Mr. Shmulewitz.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (91%); REED SMITH LLP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING LAWYERS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); DAMAGES (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); INJUNCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE RICHARD SIEGLER (91%); DOUGLAS COLBERT (57%); PAUL LOOMIE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



546 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Easing Corporate Relocation to Fairfield County

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
FROM January 1993 through the second quarter of this year 58 companies moved into Fairfield County from out of state, occupying 1.3 million square feet of space and bringing with them nearly 4,000 employes.
Since 1989 there have been 289 such incoming corporate moves, according to Sacia, (formerly known as the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association) based in Stamford. 
 And the parade is not over. In a special session of the General Assembly earlier this month Connecticut changed its laws to permit foreign banks to conduct trading, underwriting and other nonretail banking activities in the state. It was another step in smoothing the way for the Swiss Bank Corporation of Basel, Switzerland, to move its headquarters from Manhattan to an 11.9-acre site in downtown Stamford. Connecticut's aggressive corporate recruitment package containing $145 million worth of tax credits over 15 years was a persuasive element in Swiss Bank's decision to move.
Approval to build 1.3 million square feet of office space for an eventual 3,000 employes during a 10-year construction period is expected from the city's planning board and other agencies in the next few months.
With housing costs in the area among the highest in the nation, a question arises: Where are all these people from so many companies are going to live?
Apparently, it's no problem. Most of the relocating employees are highly paid ("The average salary of Swiss Bank people is $140,000," said Christopher Bergstrom, Stamford's Director of Economic Development.), existing housing is selling briskly and new construction is on the rise. Permit activity statewide has been increasing steadily, and August figures for Fairfield County were up by 648 housing units from the previous year, or 69.5 percent.
To further accommodate new businesses, the state has introduced a pilot program for helping employes of incoming companies to buy or rent houses and apartments at reasonable cost. However, the modest income and home-purchase price limits preclude the program's having much impact on the wealthy Gold Coast towns of southwestern Fairfield County, nor is it intended to aid the affluent.
What it may do is help entry-level and junior management transferees to buy or rent in towns north and east of lower Fairfield, unfortunately intensifying the transportation problem that began during the 80's boom. The area became so unremittingly expensive that finding a secretary, mail clerk, policeman or teacher who lived within 35 miles of his or her job was a major accomplishment. A result is still evident in severely clogged road and rail traffic.
Companies moving to areas other than Fairfield County, where housing is within the program's limits, will reap its benefits. The as yet untried Connecticut Housing Finance Authority program "will be offered to corporations coming into Connecticut through the Department of Economic Development," said Carol Montesi, spokeswoman for the Department of Housing.
It offers incoming businesses a tax credit of up to $100,000 a year out of a $1 million-a-year pool to create a housing assistance fund for its employees. Each company's plan for dispersal of the funds must be approved by the state.
THE money will be available for down payments, closing costs, points, security deposits for rentals, or whatever is needed. Fifty banks and mortgage companies that have agreed to participate in the program will offer mortgage rates of 1 to 2 percentage points below market for employees relocating to Connecticut, and qualifying home purchase price levels in the Stamford area have been raised from $179,500 to $251,862. Income limits for applicants have also been raised for a family of four, from $72,300 to $102,700. Eligibility limits vary in different parts of the state, based on Federal Housing and Urban Develpment Department guidelines.
A reserve of $5 million in mortgage money is committed for homeowners from other states who are reluctant to move to Connecticut without company or other assistance. The funds will be administered by the state's housing finance agency.
By stepping in where many corporations have backed away from the cost of moving key employees, Connecticut is creating another enticement for relocating businesses.
"Benefits offered to transferring families are not as generous as they were in the past," said Anne Moore, vice president of housing relocation for William Pitt Real Estate in Stamford. "They will move household goods, but very few will offer a buyout of the old house or help with down payments on the new one."
Among the more generous employers is WITCO, a chemical manufacturer that moved 800 jobs from several locations into a world headquarters in Greenwich last June.
"They offered everybody above a certain level a job in Connecticut," said James Little, regional manager of Weichert Relocation Management, a division of Weichert Real Estate Corporation in Morris Plains, N.J. Weichert, like Coldwell Banker, Prudential, and other national real estate firms, has spun off separate divisions whose sole function is to service relocating corporations.
"WE bought the homes of all the employees who were moving to Connecticut," said Mr. Little. WITCO paid the employe's legal fees, real estate fees, moving costs and any shortfall resulting from selling at a loss.
"It was hard to leave friends and my own public relations business in Columbus, Ohio," said Barbara Burnside, "but WITCO was very good about it."
Although it is her husband, William, who works for WITCO, the company helped her relocate her business and paid for a trip to Connecticut to search for a house with a local real estate broker. "Greenwich was not an option with the $600,000 average price of housing," Mrs. Burnside said.
"Our office sold five houses to new WITCO people," said Lonnie Shapiro, manager of William Pitt's Ridgefield branch. And, she added, in the first two weeks of this month 14 houses were sold from plans for a new subdivision of 71 lots, with prices ranging from $299,000 to $350,000 for houses of 1,900 to 2,300 square feet. "We are selling new homes at $800,000 to over $1 million as well," she said.
Stamford builders, including Avalon, Clay Fowler and Vaneck Brothers, are building, or soon will break ground for, almost 700 rental apartments and more than 100 one-family homes and the city's Urban Redevelopment Commission is planning to build more than 100 one- and two-bedroom apartments renting for less than $1,000, the current minimum for newly built, privately financed apartments in Stamford.
Robert Scinto, a Shelton developer, built 26 homes of 2,200 square feet in the Town of Fairfield, selling for $350,000. His houses in Milford are selling for around $185,000 and in Trumbull he is building town-house condominiums priced from $225,000 to $245,000.
"Connecticut has the highest per capita income in the country," said Joseph Cohen, spokesman for the state's Department of Economic Development. "If you took out Fairfield County it would be second, behind New Jersey. That's reflected in the cost of living and parallels the quality of life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara and William Burnside bought their Ridgefield house when his company moved to Greenwich. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRFIELD COUNTY (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; CORPORATIONS; PRICES REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); TAX LAW (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



547 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: 23 Vie for Assembly in 8 Races

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

 BODY:
WITH the words "lower property taxes" on nearly all their lips, 23 candidates for the State Assembly are running in eight districts in Westchester and Putnam Counties. Among the candidates are six Democratic incumbents, including four in their first terms, whose challengers are focusing on taxes and crime. In two of the districts, the incumbents are not running.
The decision of Cecile D. Singer of Yonkers, the only Republican member of the Westchester Assembly delegation, not to seek re-election in the 87th District has led to a two-way race in which no Democrat is running. 
 Michael J. Spano, a county legislator whose brother Nicholas is a State Senator and whose father, Leonard, is the County Clerk, is seeking Ms. Singer's seat on the Republican and Conservative lines. His opponent, from the Right to Life Party, is Edward M. Stanton, a retired Yonkers traffic consultant who said he has "no backers and no money" and is "campaigning on a very limited scale."
Andrew J. Spano, chairman of the County Democratic Committee and no relation to the other Spanos, said that Alexander Restaino had been a Democratic candidate in the 87th District but that the "Yonkers party was unable to get him enough signatures" to place him on the ballot. Andrew Spano said suggestions that this was a Democratic scheme to keep Republican voters at home "make me out to be a genius" but had no basis in fact. "I'm disappointed we didn't have anyone," Mr. Spano said.
Mr. Restaino, a businessman, said he had announced his candidacy early but had withdrawn -- as had many other potential candidates -- when the Yonkers City Council President, Vincenza A. Restiano, appeared ready to run. After she withdrew, he was asked to run only days before the deadline for signatures, Mr. Restaino said, and was 25 names short.
In the heavily Republican 91st District, which includes all of Putnam County and part of Dutchess County, a political heir and a neophyte are apparent the front-runners in a four-way contest for the seat vacated by Vincent L. Leibell 3d, a Republican and Conservative who is running for the State Senate. Willis H. Stephens Jr., a Republican lawyer whose father and grandfather both represented Putnam County in the Assembly, is being strongly challenged by a Democrat, Louise C. Bosogno, an award-winning television writer and first-time candidate who was the founding president of the League of Women Voters of Putnam County.
Ms. Bosogno won a large following in her successful grass-roots campaign against the construction of a sludge- and sewage-treatment plant in Putnam County and has been endorsed by the Sierra Club. Jerome Goldberg, who lost the Democratic primary to Ms. Bosogno by a slim margin, is running as an independent, while David J. Gamache, a Conservative, said less than a month before Election Day that he "hadn't set a strategy yet" for his campaign.
Andrew Spano said he expected most of the incumbents to have "absolutely no problem" winning re-election. But Naomi C. Matusow of Bedford, who represents the 89th District and has been called a "coming star in the Legislature" by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, will have "the toughest race in the county," Mr. Spano said.
"The Republicans have targeted her," the chairman said, adding that the party was holding "a lot of fund-raisers" to help Ms. Matusow, who won narrowly two years ago. "It's a Republican district, and she's getting all the guns aimed at her."
Ms. Matusow's Republican opponent is Robert A. Spolzino, lawyer for the village of Mount Kisco, who won the nomination after Richard A. Flynn, a county legislator, withdrew from the race because of cancer. Mr. Flynn's name is still on the Conservative line, while Joseph F. Mannix, a retired businessman, is running as the Right to Life candidate.
Ms. Matusow, a Tennessee native and a lawyer, said she is emphasizing the record she established during her first term in Albany, including her sponsorship of a ban on assault weapons, which passed in the Assembly and awaits Senate action, and her role in the successful effort to eliminate the 25 cent tolls on the Saw Mill River and Hutchinson River Parkways on Oct. 31.
Mr. Spolzino, who managed Assemblyman Peter M. Sullivan's unsuccessful campaign against Ms. Matusow in 1992, said, "Our taxes are out of control, and unless we do something about that, New York will remain economically uncompetitive." He said that his experience in local government would help him in Albany, adding that the Assemblywoman had not been tough enough on crime and lowering taxes.
A supporter of the death penalty, Mr. Spolzino called for mandatory pre-trial detention for repeat violent offenders and more stringent penalties for the illegal possession of weapons.
Defending her record, Ms. Matusow, who opposes the death penalty, said she had introduced bills that would eliminate early parole for violent felons and prevent violent offenders from plea-bargaining.
She said she had actively opposed efforts by County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke to raise the county sales tax and had helped her district by obtaining increases in school aid, $11 million in state transportation funds and $7 million in unrestricted local aid to help stabilize property taxes.
Mr. Silver, who last May appointed Ms. Matusow as chairwoman of the Assembly's Hudson River Task Force, said in an interview that she was "forever speaking up" about a variety of issues, particularly the importance of school aid to suburban districts.
In the 84th District, James Gary Pretlow, a Democrat from Mount Vernon is running for his second term against Eric Lustig, a systems analyst for Grey Advertising in Manhattan, who has the Republican and Conservative lines. Mr. Lustig, a two-time candidate who said he would spend "a lot less than $1,000" on his campaign, criticized the incumbent for voting against restoration of the death penalty. "I would propose to toughen the penalties for all weapons, not just assault weapons," said Mr. Lustig, a Yonkers resident.
Mr. Pretlow, the county's first black assemblyman, said he was the co-sponsor of the ban against assault weapons but would "continue to vote against the death penalty." The Assemblyman, who served eight years on the Mount Vernon City Council, said he was seen as sensitive to minority concerns. "Some people feel I can relate better to them, even if I don't represent their district," he said. Agnes L. Foulke is running on the Right to Life line.
Thomas A. Greco, a businessman from Larchmont, is challenging the five-term incumbent, Ronald C. Tocci, in the 85th District. Mr. Greco, the owner of Computer Perfect in New Rochelle, said that to save money he would "immediately phase out all money for the arts" and "privatize medical services for prison inmates."
Mr. Greco, the Republican candidate, charged that Mr. Tocci, who is running as a Democrat with Conservative endorsement, had the "highest absenteeism of any Westchester legislator." Mr. Tocci said that he had missed only "2 days in 10 years in Albany" and that he had been "excused for legislative reasons" from voting at other times.
Mr. Tocci, chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, said he was working to "put in place for New York a veterans health-care corporation," would include a network of nursing homes. His other mission, he said, was to finance local schools through the state income tax rather than property taxes, which "would be more equitable."
Sheila S. Naughton is running as the Right to Life candidate as she did in 1988 and 1992.
Another longtime incumbent is Richard L. Brodsky of White Plains, who is running for his seventh term against the Republican, Gerard R. Gershonowitz, and the Right to Life candidate, Adelaide Donohue, in the 86th District. Mr. Gershonowitz, also of White Plains, said he had put his insurance business "on hiatus" in order to campaign for office.
The challenger said Mr. Brodsky had "raised taxes everywhere" and was "not being paid to be a patsy" for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. Mr. Gershonowitz said he would support a separate income tax for financial aid to schools and would "like to see state lottery money used specifically for education."
Mr. Brodsky said he has led in the fight to remove the parkway tolls -- which he said discriminated against county taxpayers -- and had achieved "measurable results" in obtaining state aid to reduce local property taxes in the form of the Consolidated Local Street and Highway Improvement Program and the Suburban Highway Improvement Plan.
Mr. Gershonowitz, a first-time candidate, said Mr. Brodsky had a "nonexistent rapport" with the Greenburgh Town Supervisor, Paul J. Feiner. Mr. Feiner, however, disagreed, saying that Mr. Brodsky had been helpful in discussing legislation to reduce the impact of state reassessment mandates in the town and in obtaining a $2.1 million grant to expand the Fairview-Greenburgh Community Center. "Personally he has never been such a big supporter of mine," Mr. Feiner said, "but that hasn't interfered with our day-to-day government dealings."
Robert J. Walsh, who has the support of the Republican, Conservative and Right to Life Parties, is challenging the Democratic incumbent, Audrey G. Hochberg in the 88th District. Mr. Walsh, a retired transportation company owner, said he supported "less government and smaller government" and would bring a "business mentality instead of a political mentality to Albany." Ms. Hochberg said she was campaigning on her "very strong and diverse record."
In the 90th District, Gary Ajello, a lawyer from Yorktown Heights, a nine-year member of the Yorktown Town Board, is a candidate on the Republican, Conservative and Right to Life lines against the Democratic incumbent, Sandra R. Galef. Mr. Ajello called himself "a very old friend of George Pataki" and said that Ms. Galef "represents everything the Democrats stand for, and I believe everything the Republican and Conservative Parties stand for."
Ms. Galef, an Ossining resident, said she was a proponent of "much more open and responsive government" and that she viewed herself as "a very independent thinker who never followed the leader." A County Legislator for 13 years, she is leading an effort for an amendment to the State Constitution that would require an on-time state budget.

GRAPHIC: Map of Westchester County Assembly Districts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: READY-TO-RUN SOFTWARE INC (65%); STATE ASSEMBLY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE ASSEMBLY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PUTNAM COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



548 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: 'SHOW BOAT';
Producers Sing A Familiar Tune

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I read with interest the headline "The High Cost of Broadway" [Sept. 25] that accompanied a short article about ticket prices for the current revival of "Show Boat." In an article with the headline "Our Expensive Theater" that ran in The New York Times in December 1927, the month "Show Boat" had its premiere, the first sentences read: "It is not exactly stop-press news, of course, that the cost of everything has been mounting high in recent years. The theater, it need hardly be added, has been one of the affected areas -- witness the advance of the theater ticket from $2.50 to $5 and $6 and even $7." 
 The reason for the increase in ticket prices, according to Florenz Ziegfeld, then the producer of "Show Boat," was precisely what today's producer of "Show Boat" cites: Broadway economics.
Ziegfeld's share of the gross for one week of producing the show on the road in Pittsburgh was $32,359.60. His largest single expense was salaries, which came to $17,659.80 weekly. After other expenses, which included some unusually costly railroad fares, his profit on a capacity week was $1,907.46. As The Times reported at the time, "Mr. Ziegfeld will be the first to tell you that it is not by such margins that production expenses are repaid."
Plus ca change, plus la meme hefty weekly operating expenses.
 
JOHN TAURANAC
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: SHOW BOAT (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; PRICES TICKET SALES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



549 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: MORE MANHOLE COVERS

 BODY:
The Sunday feature "More Manhole Covers" (Sept. 25) brought back memories. Not only did our third-grade class at the Downtown Community School take a field trip to watch the Third Avenue el being torn down, but we diligently made rubbings of dozens of different manhole covers in the blocks around East 11th Street in Manhattan. Manhole covers taught us history, art, economics and the story of how the city grew. With our rubbings, we took possession of a piece of our urban world. 
 I have always credited manhole covers for turning me into an urban historian.
 
DEBORAH DASH MOORE
Director, The American
Culture Program
Vassar College
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CULTURE PROGRAM VASSAR COLLEGE (64%); DOWNTOWN COMMUNITY SCHOOL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CULTURE PROGRAM VASSAR COLLEGE (64%); DOWNTOWN COMMUNITY SCHOOL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MANHOLES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (88%); HISTORY (86%); 

PERSON: MOORE, DEBORAH DASH DEBORAH DASH MOORE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



550 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Beyond German Elections, Pessimism

BYLINE: By Nathaniel C. Nash 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
LEADING up to Germany's presidential elections last Sunday, some investors thought the time had come for the 1994 German bull market. The polls indicated that Chancellor Helmut Kohl would win an unprecedented fourth term in office, and stocks on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in anticipation of that victory were soaring.
Five trading days after Mr. Kohl's narrow election victory, however, many are wondering where all their joy has gone. On Monday, the market started heading downward, and by the end of the week, the DAX 30 stock index had lost more than 4 percent of its value, closing at 2,016.60. 
 Analysts here say that the weakness in German stocks may have little to do with the political process. Yes, there is some nervousness as to whether Mr. Kohl's conservative coalition government, and its thin 10-seat majority in Parliament, will be able to push through deep spending cuts needed to bring down Germany's ballooning budget deficit.
But most point to the performance of the dollar as the key reason for the plunge in stock prices.
"It's amazing, but the German stock market is strongly linked now to the value of the dollar," said Ralf Conen, chief equities strategist for Salomon Brothers in Frankfurt. "As long as the dollar doesn't hit bottom, I am not going to buy an export-driven stock market."
The reason is quite simple. Much of German industrial strength is based on exports -- cars, chemicals, machinery and industrial equipment. As the mark strengthens against the dollar, German exports get more expensive -- and less competitive -- abroad, so earnings go down.
And it was a week of struggle for the dollar as investors rushed to buy German marks. With Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen saying on Thursday that the United States Government would not intervene to support its already weak currency, the dollar broke an important psychological barrier of 1.50 marks, falling as low as 1.4893, before closing in New York at 1.4993 marks.
Some analysts foresee a further drop in the dollar, which would translate into deeper losses on German stocks.
"Everybody and his grandmother is talking about a 1.3850 dollar," said a currency trader with a major German bank, referring to the record low of the dollar against the mark set two years ago.
"There are no strong arguments for buying the dollar," said Richard Reid, chief economist at the Union Bank of Switzerland. "Central bankers seem to be reluctant to put any floor under the dollar."
As such, predictions on the near-term rise in German stocks are modest, especially since the market in 1993 experienced a run-up in value of almost 50 percent.
At Morgan Stanley, Alfred Mockel , chief equities strategist in Frankfurt, sees only a 5 percent to 8 percent rise in stock prices over the next 15 months.
Based on projected 1995 earnings, he says, many German stocks are overpriced compared with stocks in the United States and elsewhere. Daimler Benz shares are trading at 19.2 times projected 1995 earnings. BMW is at 12.8, and Volkswagen, 15.5.
At the same time, Volvo, the Swedish car maker, has a price earnings ratio of 4.7 percent, and the American automakers are selling at price-earnings ratios of between 5 and 9.
Despite a generalized pessimism, analysts are still saying there are some German stocks to buy.
The Union Bank of Switzerland has buy recommendations on chemical companies like BASF and Hoechst, which in the past three years have restructured themselves, laid-off employees, reduced costs and become more highly competitive.
Michael Hagmann, one analyst here, also recommends Linde, the world's largest maker of fork-lifts and the largest producer of industrial gases in Germany. The company produces gases such as oxygen, hydrogen, argon and nitrogen for industrial use in the health care, food processing, electronics, metals, and chemical industries.
"Linde is a play on the growth of East Germany and Eastern Europe," Mr. Hagmann said. "It has invested heavily there, and gases are needed for the region's industrial growth."
At Morgan, Mr. Mockel is looking at different stocks. He has a buy recommendation on Schering for two reasons. One, it is the first pharmaceutical company that has brought to market a drug that retards the advance of multiple-sclerosis. And second, Schering is the largest manufacturer of the birth control pill, which Mr. Mockel sees experiencing a sales boom in the wake of the Cairo conference on world population growth.
In the Germany banking sector, he is recommending Deutsche Bank, the country's financial giant. But he also likes the Bayerische Vereinsbank, a financial institution that has benefited from a surge in German mortgage lending and is said to have real estate holdings that alone are worth more than the value of its stock traded on the Frankfurt exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (80%); UBS (NYSE) (80%); MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (80%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CHEMICALS TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BUDGETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (93%); HELMUT KOHL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



551 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: October 16-21

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
General Motors Doesn't Have the Bugs Out Quite Yet
It's said that car buyers have a lot of brand loyalty, but you can hardly say that for car investors. On Thursday, in the midst of Detroit's ongoing victory parade, General Motors took a tumble, reporting that although it made more than half a billion dollars for the quarter, it lost big money -- $328 million -- in North America. That's where productivity is supposed to be rising and costs falling. On the news, the stock plunged $3.75, and $1.875 more on Friday, to a yearly low of $41.25. Both days, volume was huge, making G.M. far and away the Big Board's most active stock. Don't look now, but shares in G.M. -- the giant of an again-mighty industry -- have been falling steadily all year. What's the problem? It isn't market share -- it inched up to 31.5 percent. The trouble is that while Chrysler, say, makes $1,000 a car, G.M. loses nearly $300. That doesn't compute. 

Are the Caviar Wars Over?
Forget Lee Iacocca. Forget Lou Gerstner. Let's talk about business clout per square foot. Which brings us, of course, to Murray Klein. This marketing genius helped turn a little store called Zabar's into a phenomenon, an institution whose fame radiates far beyond its Broadway home. Not only do two million customers a year pass through those fabled aisles -- spending $40 million in the process -- but ex-New Yorkers everywhere find themselves pining for the glories of Zabar's. It's said that nothing in New York stays the same -- but who ever thought it would come to this? Last week Mr. Klein retired after four decades of fiercely selling the cheapest caviar around.
 
I.B.M., One of the Gang Again
Ho-hum. Quarterly earnings were a surprisingly high $710 million. Cost cuts are paying off. Even mainframes are selling strongly. And the stock stubbornly drifts downward -- a fraction on Thursday, the day of the earnings report, and another fraction on Friday. It must mean that I.B.M. is back -- back, after its near-death experience, among companies that are expected to turn in such results routinely. Or maybe investors are worried that the mainframe news can't last, that cost controls have done whatever magic they can. But Louis Gerstner was quick to say that more of a recovery was needed: "We still have a lot of work to do in several areas of our business."
 
Block That Footprint!
One sure way of tracking technology's relentless tinkering with our lives is to monitor the jargon spawned by that technology. Just listen: last week an analyst (analysts surely lead the way in instant jargon) was discussing a "P.C.S.-avoidance strategy" and "how you get a big enough cellular footprint." Cellular footprint? Are we talking molecular biology? Jurassic Park II? No, it was four top cellular companies -- Bell Atlantic, Nynex, U S West and Airtouch -- teaming up to build a nationwide wireless network to take on AT&T-McCaw. And P.C.S.? Personal communications services licenses, of course. You want to avoid having to bid for those.
 
A Slap on a Very Rich Wrist
Weil, Gotshal & Manges dominates the bankruptcy game, but some say it clawed its way to that perch by being less than scrupulous in avoiding conflicts of interest. And last week the law firm got what those critics surely saw as a long-overdue slap on the wallet. Weil, Gotshal represented a board committee looking into possible fraud at Leslie Fay, but members of that committee were also top executives at big Weil, Gotshal clients. On top of that, said a Federal bankruptcy trustee, the firm failed to disclose those ties -- resulting, the trustee said, in "actual harm" to Leslie Fay. His remedy: last week he recommended to the court that Weil, Gotshal be removed from the case and forfeit part of its $5.3 million in fees. Ouch.
 
Honk If You're Sick of Barney
A year ago Barney was everywhere, pushing parents nearly to the screaming point. Well, this year, in their quiet way, they've let out that scream: they're sick of dinosaurs, and they aren't going to buy them any more. A Florida man even created an I Hate Barney Secret Society. At Hasbro, the biggest of numerous licensees, Barney revenues have plunged from more than $130 million last year to perhaps $30 million this year. How could this happen? Kids still love him, and Barney's No. 2 in children's television. But maybe it's finally happened: there might actually be so many Barneys out there that even the voraciously acquisitive preschool set doesn't have room for another creature. Marketers, jot this down: There can be too much of a good thing.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japan: The Gap Keeps Widening
Last month, Washington made much of a supposed market-opening agreement with Japan. But that pact covered fringe items like insurance and medical equipment -- it didn't go to the core of the problem, which is cars. Last week the numbers made that starkly clear as America's trade gap with Japan widened by 2.4 percent and seemed headed for yet another record. It was small comfort to the Administration that the overall trade gap shrank significantly, because the Japanese number is the one that keeps Washington awake at night.
 
In Mexico, Invasion Is Welcome
You might think Mexicans wouldn't want all sorts of foreign banks and brokerages swarming over them, but when Mexico threw open the doors last week, a chorus of welcomes rang out. As part of Nafta, the Government granted entry to just about all the financial companies that came knocking, but Mexicans didn't seem concerned about competition -- they were more interested in the lift the new investment would give the economy. "This is a historic event," said one Mexican banker. And Mexico is protected for a while: not until 2004 can foreigners go beyond 25 percent of the market.
 
TH ECONOMY
 
Eeeeeeeeeeeeek!
Please: a moment of silence to pay homage to progress. No, make that Progress. Just look at current primitive habits: we grab some bills and coins, shuddering to think how many soiled hands they've passed through, and risk heart attack or vehicular violence or a lightning assault by walking to the store. There we exchange this germ-laden tender for the object of our consumer desire. But this nightmare's almost over: last week began trials of "E-cash": you sit, you log on, you click, you pay -- all on the "World Wide Web," which is somewhere in cyberspace. No muss, no plastic, no invasion of privacy. And cyber banks will duly record all E-transfers and E-deposits. Egad.
 
A Fortune 500 Senate Race
Politics and business are different animals. Everyone knows that. But at some dollar level, don't they converge? When Senate candidates spend vast sums to go to Washington (only to be reviled by the public once they get there), hasn't it become big business? You plow in the cash, and if all goes well the product emerges -- though it's a Senate seat, not widgets. In California, it's now reported that Michael Huffington and Dianne Feinstein spent a total of more that $27 million by Sept. 30 -- already a record for a Senate race, before any October ad blitz is tallied. This comes to $100,000 a day since Jan. 1. That's a lot of widgets.
 
Barefoot on Broadway
How do you get to Carnegie Hall? Oh, you know. And how do you get to Broadway? Bring a limo full of cash. And don't have any illusions about breaking even -- no matter how big your name. Even Neil Simon, owner of probably the biggest name around, says that with skyrocketing costs, "It's just not economically viable" to open a show on Broadway today. So last week he said he'd open his latest one Off Broadway. It seems axiomatic that playwright superstars would show their wares in the ultimate showcase; this defection suggests that something's amiss. Or as Mr. Simon's producer put it, a bit less politely, Broadway economics is "an insanity."
 
An 8th Here, an 8th There . . .
Wall Street math is simple: If brokers buy and sell at the same price, they don't make money. So stock prices have "spreads": Buying? That'll be $50. Selling? Sorry, just $49.875. On big exchanges, such eighth-point spreads are standard, and at last report, brokers could still afford loafers. But Nasdaq, it seems, is different. A recent study showed that 25-cent spreads were the norm, and that odd eighths were rare. And double the spread, of course, means double the profit. So last week the Justice Department said it was investigating Nasdaq dealers -- and the focus of the inquiry is said to be price-fixing. So now maybe you'll get those odd eighths -- all you'll have to worry about is picking the right stock.
 
The Market Is Not Happy
The stock market wants to hear that General Motors is doing fine and that there's no inflation, but it heard neither as the week ended. G.M.'s poor results combined with various inflation alerts to send 30-year Treasury yields close to 8 percent, and the Dow industrials down 45 points in two days.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Now, life after Murray Klein. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Feinstein and Huffington, spending big. (Associated Press (left); Paul S. Conklin); Phone wires: tomorrow's antiques? (Susan Harris for The New York Times)
 
Graphs showing net result from North American operations from 1993 to 1994 (Source: Datastream, General Motors), the excess of imports over exports in Japan for 1993 and 1994 and the Dow Jones industrial average from Sept. 30 to Oct. 21 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BRANDING (78%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); 

PERSON: LIDO ANTHONY 'LEE' IACOCCA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



552 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Dollar Is Low, Despised, And a Good Buy

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
INTEREST rates are up, and the dollar is down.
That is not the way it is supposed to be, at least in terms of traditional economic analysis. Indeed, the prescribed method for defending a currency is usually to raise market interest rates in order to draw in capital from abroad.
Yet that is what happened, and the prevailing wisdom is that it will keep happening. Market sentiment is decidedly bearish on both bonds and the buck. 
 To appreciate just how painful the last year could have been for someone who bet wrong on both rates and currencies, imagine a Japanese or German investor who bought a 30-year Treasury zero-coupon bond last Oct. 15. With interest rates soaring, that investor would have lost 44 percent of his dollars since then. With the buck also down, about half of that investor's yen or marks would have vanished.
Few investors bet that badly. But a lot lost money when interest rates turned around and began rising. And those losses led to capital flight. "On a short-term basis, portfolio flows have become the most important thing in currency markets," says Chuck Clough, the chief equity strategist at Merrill Lynch. Rising rates have scared people out of American markets and thus out of dollars.
At the same time, there has been a surge of investment overseas by American companies and a rapid flow of money into foreign stock markets. In the 10 months through August, the latest figures available, mutual fund buyers poured $47 billion into funds that specialize in foreign stocks while taking $30 billion out of funds that buy Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities.
Those have not been the only reasons for the declining dollar. The American economy, growing faster than the economies of most other industrialized countries, is importing much more than it was. Exports, stimulated by the lower dollar, have also boomed, but not to the same extent, and the trade deficit is again growing, putting more pressure on the buck. That pressure may ease in coming months, however, as foreign economies strengthen.
It is the strong American economy that dominates the market news these days. Bond traders were stunned to learn that the rise in interest rates, which has caused them so much pain, seems to have barely touched the housing market, where starts continue at a very strong pace. As the bond boys jumped to sell, the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds topped 8 percent for the first time since the spring of 1992. It was at 5.78 percent when rates bottomed last October.
To encourage investors to buy dollars, it may take a combination of higher interest rates and a belief they will not rise much more -- meaning that those who buy our bonds will get good coupons without capital losses. When the Federal Reserve next tightens, the immediate question will be whether the increase is large enough to convince traders that it won't happen again.
In the more than two decades since the end of fixed exchange rates, currency markets have become famous for the way they can move to extremes of valuation. But eventually the issue of what you can buy for each currency begins to count for something. On a purchasing-power basis, the dollar is ridiculously cheap. It could get cheaper, of course. But a year hence, the chances are good that now will look like a great time to have bought bucks.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing value of the dollar, in marks and yilds on treasuries for 1993 and 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



553 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
Back From the Brink, RCA Is Forging a Digital Future

BYLINE: By ROBERT E. CALEM; Robert E. Calem writes about technology from New York.

 BODY:
THE reincarnation cost almost $2 billion and took seven years, but RCA, under the wings of Thomson S.A., is once again alive and well and still living in Indiana.
In fact, the company that invented color television in 1954 has this year pioneered a digital satellite television receiver that has become one of the best-selling new consumer electronics products ever. 
 Now named Thomson Consumer Electronics Americas and including the General Electric brand name for audio, video and telecommunications products, RCA was sold by G. E. in 1987 for $800 million in cash and the medical electronics business of Thomson S.A., which at the time was valued at about $300 million. Since then, Thomson, which is owned by the French Government, has pumped about a billion dollars into the firm. As a result, Thomson Consumer Electronics ranks in the top three in market share in every consumer electronics category in which the company sells a product.
The company, which sells its products throughout North and South America and is headquartered in Indianapolis, said it will have revenues of $5 billion this year, up from $2 billion in 1987. Although the parent company does not break out profit-and-loss data for Thomson Consumer Electronics, Joseph Clayton, the executive vice president in charge of sales and marketing, claims the company will be profitable this year for the first time since 1986. Last year, the company broke even on revenues of $3.5 billion.
Some skeptics, such as James I. Magid, a consumer electronics industry analyst at Needham & Company in New York, still wonder about the extent of the company's profitability. "In real terms, profit margins on TV's and VCR's have eroded from 15 percent in 1977 to negative five in the last 10 years, and they're just getting back to zero. Productivity has been squeezed and prices have eroded," Mr. Magid noted. "So I'm not sure how profitable Thomson is today. But surviving is a great accomplishment."
But no one denies that Thomson Consumer Electronics is well positioned. "This year is a lot better than any of the last five years," Mr. Magid conceded, adding, "I think they're on an upward trajectory."
Mr. Magid predicted that Thomson's DSS digital satellite system, which allows users to receive televison channels through an 18-inch satellite dish, will sell well in rural America. He said demand for color televisions is still growing because prices, in real terms, are declining. "Barring a big recession, next year should be profitable."
Thomson's bankers are also upbeat about the recent performance of Thomson's American arm. "I recently attended a meeting of their bankers, and I'm very impressed with the quality of their management team," said Peter H. Koesler, a vice president at Citibank Global Finance in Chicago.
Before its purchase by General Electric, RCA had pulled back from the consumer electronics market after the failure of its video disk player. Under General Electric, RCA stayed profitable only by cutting costs. "We reduced headcount by 25 percent between 1986 and 1987, advertising expenditures fell to half what they had been before General Electric bought us in the fourth quarter of 1986, and we closed plants" instead of investing in new ones, Mr. Clayton recalled. "From General Electric's standpoint, they didn't pay for RCA for the consumer electronics business. They bought RCA for NBC and to get our defense electronics business."
In fact, at the time of the sale to Thomson S.A., John F. Welch, the chairman of G.E., called consumer electronics a "semi-stepchild in this company."
BY contrast, Thomson S.A. saw RCA as an entry ticket to the American consumer electronics market, where it had no presence, and a chance to compete here with Sony, Matsushita, Hitachi and North American Philips, which sells products under the Magnavox label.
Under Thomson S.A., the renaissance of Thomson Consumer Electronics began almost immediately, with an investment of $500 million to rebuild RCA's infrastructure, including a new color TV assembly plant in Juarez, Mexico. Nearly $100 million went to upgrade a new factory in Marion, Ind., for the production of regular large-screen picture tubes, and another $80 million expanded a factory in Circleville, Ohio, that makes glass for picture tubes.
About $50 million went toward significantly increasing the automation at the company's Bloomington, Ind., color television assembly plant, where RCA manufactured the world's first color television. Today, the company says the plant is the largest factory of its kind in the world, producing more than 3 million televisions a year.
In 1992 Thomson Consumer Electronics boosted its ad spending to $17.2 million, up from $13 million in 1987, and, with beefed up production capacity, increased and repositioned its television products. The company unveiled Proscan, a high-end color television that would pit RCA against Sony, Mitsubishi and JVC. The RCA brand was refocused to compete with televisions from Magnavox, Zenith, Panasonic and Toshiba, while the G.E. models would vie with lower-priced Korean and Japanese models from Goldstar, Samsung, Sanyo and Sharp.
LAST year, Thomson began "investing in growth" by boosting research and development of digital technologies, said James E. Meyer, senior vice president of product management. "Video and communications -- telephones, answering machines, camcorders, VCR's and TV's -- will all eventually go digital," he said. DSS, which cost $150 million to develop, is RCA's first entry into the digital video business. Mr. Meyer said it gives Thomson "the core digital compression technology" to develop products.
Digital compression reduces the amount of data needed to send video or audio signals from one place to another. A DSS encoder at the broadcast source compresses the video before it is sent to the viewer's home, where a TV set-top decoder decompresses the signal.
Although DSS was developed in a joint effort with GM Hughes Electronics' DirecTV unit, Thomson retained ownership of the compression and decompression technologies it uses. Any other company that markets DSS will then have to pay Thomson royalties. Sony will be the first, probably next summer. DirecTV agreed to let Thomson have exclusive rights to market DSS for 18 months or until the first million units were sold. Thomson expects to hit the million mark next year.
Last month alone, Mr. Clayton said, the company sold more than 100,000 of the new satellite systems. Over 200,000 DSS systems have been sold since its June introduction.
Eventually, Mr. Clayton said, the company will launch G.E. and Proscan versions of DSS and expand the RCA line into what is now G.E. territory: more powerful cordless phones and digital answering machines. He also plans to increase the presence of Thomson Consumer Electronics in Latin America.
Clearly, the company will face some hurdles as it grows. For example, Mr. Clayton said, "Sony moving into DSS is a double-edged sword. They can be a major threat" because of their marketing prowess. But they can also lend the product a great deal of credibility and boost everyone's sales. Moreover, he said, "I also wouldn't count cable TV out." He said that if cable operators ever unite, they could compete with DSS.
Describing RCA's long struggle back from the brink of extinction, Mr. Clayton seems glad to be able to predict any future for his company. "Without Thomson," he said, "I'm convinced our business would have died."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Clayton, a Thomson executive, wipes an RCA television in a San Francisco store. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (98%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (98%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (98%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (98%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS AMERICAS; THOMSON SA TECHNICOLOR SA (98%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS AMERICAS; THOMSON SA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (92%); ELECTRONICS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RANKINGS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); 

PERSON: CALEM, ROBERT E MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



554 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Carnival Air: It's Not the Clown of the Skies Anymore

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.

 BODY:
AVIE COHEN, a resident of North Miami Beach who sells bakery equipment, was livid after his first two attempts to fly to New York on Carnival Air Lines.
"They had one flight a day, and both times the flight was delayed," he said, recalling the troubles Carnival had three years ago in its early days as a scheduled airline. 
 But because Carnival employees sympathized with his plaints and because the carrier offered low fares without requiring an advance purchase or Saturday stayover, he gave it one last try; now it is his airline of choice. "I've flown them maybe 40 times since then, and every flight has departed and arrived on time," Mr. Cohen said.
Though a blip in the industry -- it carried 1.2 million passengers last year, compared with Delta's 84.8 million -- Carnival is making a name for itself apart from its rich older relation, the Carnival cruise line.
Founded by Ted Arison, who started and still controls the giant cruise ship company, the airline is now mostly owned by one of his three children, Micky. But while Carnival Air began life in 1988 as a modest sideline, a one-route charter carrier, ferrying high-rollers from its base in Fort Lauderdale to Mr. Arison's Crystal Palace Resort and Casino in Nassau, the Bahamas, it is now much more than a feeder line for the father's other operations.
With 40 flights daily from Florida, New York, San Juan and Los Angeles, Carnival Air earned $4.1 million on revenues of $147 million in the fiscal year ended last June 30. One quarter of those revenues came from charter business and 5 percent came from delivering passengers to ships operated by Carnival and competitors like Royal Caribbean.
The rest of its passengers are attracted by low fares coupled with full service, a combination made possible by the kind of hustle that turned the economy-priced Carnival cruise line into the biggest company of its kind in the world and made the Arisons billionaires many times over.
In Carnival Air's case, that has meant scooping up personnel from Eastern Airlines and other moribund carriers and joining foreign airlines in ambitious route-sharing arrangements. It means operating without unions. And it also often means using secondary airports, like those in White Plains, Islip and Newburgh, N.Y.
"Our vision is not to try to compete with the major carriers," Micky Arison said in a phone interview, "but to grow conservatively by taking advantage of the Carnival name and bringing service to small markets."
There's apparently a lot more growth to come. Almost as an afterthought, Carnival earned more than a third of last year's profits hauling cargo. Next month, the carrier is set to begin daily nonstop passenger service between Fort Lauderdale and Philadelphia, West Palm Beach and Philadelphia, New York and San Juan and Fort Lauderdale and Newburgh.
There is talk of taking the airline public, as the Arisons did in 1987 with the cruise line, now called the Carnival Corporation.
"Going public has been under consideration for quite some time," said Micky Arison, who bought the airline for an undisclosed amount in 1990, when his father, an Israeli emigre, decided to move back to Israel. Reuven Wertheim, who runs the day-to-day operations of the airline as chairman, said the offering would probably occur later this year or in early 1995.
In an interview in his no-frills office here, Mr. Wertheim -- a 23-year veteran of El Al Israel Airlines who served with Ted Arison in the Israeli Army in that country's war of independence -- said the carrier "has been valued by different investment bankers at somewhere between $70 million and $80 million." But even when it goes public, he added, "I don't think the owners will relinquish control."
That was the case with the cruise line offering, which raised nearly $400 million. The Arison family still owns about 60 percent of the Carnival Corporation's publicly-traded class A stock, a stake worth $3 billion at today's prices, and all of its illiquid class B shares, conservatively worth another $1.2 billion. Both classes pay comparable dividends, but the B's have five times the voting power that the A's have, and elect nine of the company's 13 directors. The cruise company earned $318 million on operating income of $1.56 billion in the year ended last Nov. 30.
In the airline's case, a stockholder would be getting a share of a much smaller company that is one of many small, low-fare carriers that have emerged in recent years. That roster includes Kiwi, Mark Air, Tower Air, Valujet, Midway, Reno Air, American Trans Air and Morris Air (which was acquired last year by Southwest Airlines, the perennially profitable model for low-cost carriers). Costs at these carriers, which are mostly nonunion, average less than 7 cents a mile, compared with an industry average of almost 9.5 cents.
As a group, these upstarts will account for 4.4 percent of the domestic industry in 1995, according to a recent study by CS First Boston, and will generate about $1.8 billion of revenue. Carnival Air, the study estimates, will carry 2 million passengers this year, up nearly 70 percent from 1993, and almost 2.4 million in 1995.
Carnival Air owes some of its success to a coincidence. It was taking off as a scheduled carrier just as three airlines with a big presence in Florida -- Pan Am, Eastern and Braniff -- were crashing financially.
The demise of those airlines gave Carnival its opening wedge. Although its charter business to the Bahamas was profitable, it was also highly seasonal. The solution was to fly scheduled routes and keep costs down by leasing surplus planes and dipping into the big pool of former Pan Am, Eastern and Braniff employees for new hires.
While Carnival says its salaries are among the highest paid by small airlines, they are still far below those of the major carriers. And most of its fleet, which will grow to 21 planes next month with the delivery of its second and third Airbuses, is leased at favorable rates. In many cases, Carnival is charged only when the planes are in the air.
Carnival still flies between Fort Lauderdale and Nassau, although the Carnival Corporation sold the Crystal Palace two months ago to the Ruffin Hotel Group. Its routes also include six daily nonstops between Florida and New York (doubling to 12 in the winter), as well as service between Newark and San Juan and Miami and Los Angeles.
On each route, Carnival offers fares at least as low as those offered by rival carriers and sometimes lower. Its basic Fort Lauderdale-Newark fare, for example, is now $79 one way and a ticket from Miami to Los Angeles now goes for as little as $179.
And unlike Southwest, for example, Carnival is a full-service airline: it serves meals, reserves seats and transfers baggage to other airlines for connecting flights.
Carnival's deliberate approach to growth is designed to avoid the hasty expansion that proved so dangerous to other start-up airlines as well as minimize financial risk.
That is why the carrier uses many secondary airports, where departure gates are more readily available and operating costs are lower than at bigger airports. It is the only airline, for example, to fly from metropolitan New York to Ponce and Aguadilla in Puerto Rico. And it flies three daily roundtrips (five in the winter) between Fort Lauderdale and Islip, L.I.
Even Carnival's fine-tuned strategy doesn't always succeed, but the carrier has no compunction about cutting its losses.
Just two months after starting daily service in December 1992 between New York and the Dominican Republic, Carnival pulled the plug, citing a sky-high rate of no-show passengers. In May, it pulled out of Worcester, Mass., after just six months.
There have been no such problems serving the Hispanic market, which accounts for about a third of its business. There are the frequent flights between the mainland and Puerto Rico and New York and Florida. In addition, Carnival has an innovative arrangement with South America's LanChile Airline and Spain's Iberia Airlines.
The LanChile arrangement involves that carrier's daily flight from Santiago, Chile, to New York, which stops in Miami. While LanChile passengers bound for New York stay aboard the Boeing 767 and are joined by Carnival passengers, a bilingual Carnival crew takes over the flight to New York.
Because Carnival y leases the LanChile plane in Miami each morning and LanChile buys the seats it needs from Carnival for its continuing passengers, the deal gets around a rule that barsforeign airlines from boarding passengers in one United States city and transporting them to another. Carnival has a similar arrangement with Iberia. Passengers arriving in Miami from Madrid switch from an Iberia Boeing 747 to a Carnival Airbus 300 for a continuing flight to Los Angeles. Iberia buys a block of seats, and a bilingual Carnival crew wears uniforms that combine features used by both carriers.
Carnival is seeking more opportunities to share routes but not at the expense of its own plans. "We've been approached to fly to Haiti," Mr. Wertheim said, "but we have applied to fly there ourselves."
 
 
SHAREHOLDERS ARE BUMPED
 FOR all its billions, the Arison family has never minded using its clout as majority owner of the Carnival Corporation to get first-class treatment.
The giant cruise company paid $5.5 million to lease a plane from Ted Arison, the company's founder, for his own use. Another $1.3 million went to his personnel company for locating executives for Carnival. The company bought $3 million of equipment from businesses Mr. Arison controlled, and gave $528,000 to a foundation he runs. The most eye-popping outlay: $2.5 million in consulting fees paid to Mr. Arison's brother-in-law -- posthumously for the last four years.
All that could pale next to the killing the family may make if its privately-held Carnival Air Lines realizes its dreams to go public. Public shareholders of the Carnival Corporation may wonder why they missed out on a piece of the action.
It was the cruise company's passengers, after all, who rang up $68 million in bookings for the fledgling airline, nearly one out of every five dollars it has grossed since inception, and the bulk of its revenues during the crucial start-up phase.
A spokeswoman for the Carnival Corporation said Federal law prevents the cruise line, as a foreign corporation, from owning a United States airline. (The corporation is incorporated in Panama for tax reasons.)
In its proxy, the cruise company also insists that the rates charged by Carnival Air are comparable to other air fares. ALISON LEIGH COWAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reuven Wertheim, chairman, runs the day-to-day operations of the little airline that made good. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Charting a New Course" shows revenues and net profits and losses for Carnival Air from 1989 to 1994. (Source: Company Reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CARNIVAL AIR LINES CARNIVAL CORP (96%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARNIVAL AIR LINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FARES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; ARISON, TED; ARISON, MICKY; WERTHEIM, REUVEN MICKY ARISON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



555 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/1995 VOLVO 960;
A Box That's Well Rounded

BYLINE: By MARSHALL SCHUON 

 BODY:
SO I get into the 960, right? It's the new Volvo, a 1995 four-door station wagon dressed in a green so dark that it looks black -- except when the sun is on it, and then there are speckles of gold in that lovely forest paint.
But I'm confused. Where are the side-impact air bags we've heard so much about? I've read that they are in the seats, and they pop out to protect the occupants if the car is T-boned. But where are they? Well hidden, is my first guess. 
 But that guess (like so many of my notions) turns out to be wrong. Further investigation shows that the bags are in the 850, which is Volvo's top-of-the-line sporty car. But they are not in this wagon, or in the 960 sedan, which are Volvo's top-of-the-line luxury cars, and they won't be in anything but the 850 until the 1996 model year.
That's a disappointment, but it just means you have to be a bit more careful of your flanks. You wouldn't want to mess up the 960's stylishly redone body in any case -- and you still get Volvo's otherwise thorough commitment to safety.

 
 For '95, that commitment includes daytime running lights in all of the Swedish company's models sold in the United States. The lights go on, albeit somewhat dimmed, when you start the engine, and the idea is that they make your presence on the road more apparent. The lights are required in Canada and in several European countries.
"We have seen in country after country that daytime running lights do help enhance visibility and contribute to safety," a company spokesman said. "We believe it's just a matter of time until all cars are equipped with them, but we wanted to be first."
The headlights have also been tweaked as part of the 960's design, and they are now as good as -- perhaps better than -- any I have seen, turning the darkest road into a well-lit path. The lights span most of the new front end, which includes a smaller chrome grille with the familiar diagonal band of trim, and lower fenders.
Bumpers are now keyed to the color of the body, and they are integrated better, although they still look like bumpers, which these days is refreshing. Door handles, body moldings and window trim have been refined, and both sedan and wagon are smoother than their predecessors.
Not that they will be mistaken for anything but Volvos, mind you. And that is all to the good. The boxy shape has always been useful for packaging passengers or parcels, and the wagon is one of the more useful luxury vehicles on the road.
The front-wheel-drive 960 also looks more expensive than it is, with a base price of $29,900 for the sedan and $31,200 for the wagon. There are only three options -- a $750 compact-disk changer, cold-weather equipment that adds $350, and a $300 roof rack -- so the base price actually means something.
Standard equipment includes a full complement of creature comforts and niceties, including individual wipers for those spectacular headlights. There is, of course, the usual array of power assistance, and there is also a standard sunroof and a three-position memory system for the driver's seat.
For '95, the interior has also been redesigned, and the dark-green wagon had tan leather on the front buckets and on the folding bench in back. A one-piece hatch opens on the rear cavern, which is fully carpeted and has a locking compartment under the cargo floor.
The seats are medium-firm but very comfortable, and the driving position is all that could be asked. Like the seats, the four-spoke wheel is wrapped in leather and its fat rim is padded but firm. The entire hub serves as a horn, and other controls have been made somewhat larger.
Burled wood trim graces the dash, the doors and the center console, which holds the shifter for the automatic, the only transmission choice available. There is a control to select one of three transmission modes -- W for winter, S for sport or E for economy -- and the button changes the shift points, depending on driving conditions.
No new Volvo would be caught without dual air bags, and the 960 manages a passenger bag that doesn't begrudge the glove box, unlike so many installations. The box is reasonably large, and it is abetted by other ample storage space throughout the car. Even the ashtray is large and easy to use.
On the down side, so to speak, the rear windows open only part way. But that is one of the few complaints in a beautifully finished, roomy and well-thought-out interior.
Under the hood, the 960 carries over the all-alloy, 2.9-liter in-line six cylinder, but the 24-valve engine has been recalibrated to provide greater torque than the 1994 model. That torque is now present at lower engine speeds, giving the car better off-the-line performance, and that is noticeable when you leave an on-ramp and merge into traffic.
No question, the car is quick -- even though the recalibration has cut the horsepower rating to 181, from 201 in the '94 model. More than being fast, though, the 960 feels completely competent. Part of that has to do with its new chassis and suspension.
At the front is the MacPherson strut system that was designed for the 850 Sportswagon. In back is a transversely mounted leaf spring made of plastic composites, similar to the one used in the Chevrolet Corvette. With the new underpinnings, the Volvo is flatter on corners; the engineers say there is 35 percent less body roll than in the past.
I believe them. This is a quiet, comfortable handler that is fully endearing. In fact, it took me almost no time to fall in love -- after I stopped looking for those side air bags.
 INSIDE TRACK: Amazingly, a slicker presentation of the basic box.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Behind the Wheel column in Automobiles today, about the Volvo 960, describes the car's drivetrain incorrectly. As noted in an accompa nying table, it has rear-wheel drive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new 960 wagon has smoother lines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOLVY (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); CANADA (69%); 

COMPANY: VOLVO AB AB VOLVO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); CANADA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); SEDANS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (65%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



556 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 4; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Lighting Up, But Only In Public

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
INSIDE the French Roast Cafe in Greenwich Village on a recent night, Dawn Randall sat blowing fat clouds of smoke. They drifted over the tables of the people squeezed all around her, some of them sipping lattes, others mowing down undersize sandwiches and one of them simply knitting.
In that self-contained world of small food, drinks without danger and a natural-fiber baby blanket in the making, Ms. Randall was doing something decidedly bad. 
 That fact seemed to please her.
"I gave up everything else," Ms. Randall, a 30-year-old makeup artist, said. "I don't drink. I don't do drugs. But I still get pleasure from smoking. I like the taste, the comfort. You eat, you smoke. You have sex, you smoke. It kind of all goes together."
While the number of heavy smokers has changed little in the last decade, and although high school students are still making their rite of passage to the school bathroom, where ritualistic puffs have been taken since the first crop of tobacco advertisements hit the airwaves, a group of people in their 20's and early 30's have begun to occupy a new category: "social smokers."
As with people who call themselves "social drinkers," these social smokers say they puff only occasionally, especially when they are with people. They say that they know smoking is unhealthy and that they feel guilt about it, but they defend it as a social pleasure.
"Two years ago, smoking among this group was looked down on," said Rex Briggs, a researcher who tracks the habits of people in their 20's for Yankelovich Partners, a market research and consulting firm in Norwalk, Conn. "But now there is this strange emergence of 'I'm going to do my own thing.' "
The evidence of a social-smoking trend is anecdotal. But in random samplings of 4,000 people nationwide, Yankelovich found that among people 16 to 29 years old, the number of those concerned about how much they were smoking rose from 21 percent in 1993 to 30 percent in 1994.
In a 1994 study of about 3,000 Americans, Yankelovich noted that 36 percent of all smokers were 25 to 34 years old, the largest percentage of any age group, up from 28 percent in 1993. Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta have also expressed concern over the increase in smoking among people in their 20's.
But despite the widely reported determination that nicotine is addictive, many in this group say they are able to restrict their smoking to nights or weekends.
With Rolling Rocks planted firmly in hand, young women in clubs drag on Marlboros, perhaps under the illusion that doing so will help them resemble Uma Thurman, but then say they will not smoke again for months. By definition, social smokers wouldn't dream of lighting up outside their office buildings at lunchtime, but they puff away with ease at happy hour.
This group does not buy, it bums.
The odd new trend, some marketing experts say, is confounding, given how educated the group should be about the dangers of smoking. But others argue that social puffing is simply an inexpensive pleasure for people who feel they are being glamorous by flirting with danger.
Perhaps five years ago the same group would have rented a limousine and zipped through Manhattan, yelling at traffic. Cheap thrills are not static -- like hemlines and restaurant trends, they change with the culture and the economy -- but they must always be bad.
"This is a group whose parents quit or never did smoke, so to do so is a mild rebellion," said Dr. Audrey Gusky, a professor of marketing at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh. "The 20-something group feels lost in the demographics. They feel like they are always left out, so this is a way to get noticed, for people to recognize them."
Mr. Briggs, the Yankelovich researcher, said the phenomenon may actually be a result of an improved economy, though this argument is usually reserved for an increase in, say, sales of washers and dryers.
"We are coming out of a gloomy state," Mr. Briggs said. "We are starting to feel optimistic. Occasional smoking is part of having fun and doing something different.
"An interest in status symbols like expensive cars and jewelry has decreased a lot in our nation. We are looking for things that are satisfying on a personal level rather than things that look good to others."
That statement about sums up how William Brangham, 25, a documentary film producer who lives in Manhattan, feels about the half-dozen cigarettes he allows himself each week.
Mr. Brangham, who has smoked casually for about nine years, said that despite the spooky poster that once hung in the teen-age section of probably every public library -- the one that depicted an old hag clouded in smoke and read, "Smoking is very glamorous" -- those few moments he puts in with tobacco in fact make him feel just that way.
"I love the way the tobacco tastes and the way the smoke feels passing through you," Mr. Brangham said.
"I like the sensation, the neatness, the sound of that crackle when you take the first puff of smoke. It's beautiful, and it's terrible, but I just don't do it enough to make it troublesome."
Many young smokers say they feel shame about their habit, and shame, like a juicy secret, is always better when shared. So for many, social smoking is a social sport.
"I only like to smoke around other smokers," said David Mowers, 29, a fund-raiser from Manhattan. "There is something really romantic about it. When you light someone else's cigarette, they touch your hand, blow out the flame, make eye contact with you and then say, 'Thank you.' I just love it."
Advertisements for cigarettes too, have played their part by depicting crowds of smokers puffing happily together. Couples who inhabit the ad world share a love of things like imported instant coffee beverages; the drinkers and smokers congregate in groups.
"Closet smokers create a sense of community when they do it together," Mr. Briggs said. "When you bum a cigarette, you can build a communal link, and every time you smoke, you reinforce that. You build a bridge between yourself and other people who only smoke occasionally."
DESPITE the tobacco industry's protestations to the contrary, all recent scientific reports on nicotine clearly state that it is addictive. But some psychologists say that the current pariah status of smokers is such that social pressure alone may keep puffing to a minimum.
"I have had a number of patients over the years who have been able to bring their smoking down to a casual level," said Dr. Barry Lubetkin, the director of the Institute for Behavior Therapy in Manhattan. "There are some people who can organize themselves, through a combination of their personality and an environment where they feel so pressured not to smoke during the week, that they simply give it up and do it only on weekends.
"Now, the ultimate study of casual smokers has not yet been done. But is casual smoking advisable for a goal? No."
But danger has to be part of the point.
As Richard Klein wrote in "Cigarettes Are Sublime" (Duke University Press, 1993), a monograph that explains the appeal of smoking, "warning smokers or neophytes of the dangers entices them more powerfully to the edge of the abyss, where, like travelers in a Swiss landscape, they can be thrilled by the subtle grandeur of the perspectives on mortality opened by the little terrors in every puff."
Or could this all simply be latent high school trauma, the sort that sent those who were cut from the volleyball team to the park behind the school to puff away angrily while denouncing society as a whole?
Philip Shane, 26, who was smoking one of his girlfriend's cigarettes the other night outside the California Pizza Oven in Greenwich Village, sees it as somewhat more simple. "I feel like I am in a movie," he said. "It just seems cool."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Casual smoking among young adults is causing concern. At a Metropolitan Museum of Art party, (Miles Ladin for The New York Times); and at Velvet, a Manhattan club, smokers indulged. (Andrew Lichtenstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: YANKELOVICH PARTNERS (70%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO SMOKING (91%); TRENDS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (74%); TOBACCO FARMING (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER DAWN RANDALL (69%); REX BRIGGS (62%); WILLIAM BRANGHAM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



557 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: RUNNING ON EMPTY;
Where Did All the Issues Go?

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NOT since the studio script doctors on "Casablanca" cranked out daily rewrites at breakneck speed has the story line of a major production changed so much so fast.
Consider the unplanned twists in the 1994 campaign. First, political reform would be the driving theme. Then it was the North American Free Trade Agreement. Then came the economy. Then welfare. Finally, the politicians had it all settled. Health care would be the make-or-break issue on Nov. 8. 
 They never got it right. Not only was the script dated, so was its premise, for the expected litany of issues this season has been reduced to mere scribbles in the margins.
There are no real issues at all this year, at least in the traditional sense. The burning economic and social concerns that were central to the campaign dialogue only two years ago -- from the deficit to abortion to health care -- have all but vanished. And the issues that were so debated in campaigns for years before that, like flag desecration and military preparedness, are non-starters. No longer are most candidates advocating specific reforms that they say would make Government work better; this year, they say Government is not the answer.
Even the archetypal issue of American political campaigns -- the economy -- does not count.
The subjects that come up most are less economic and more ideological, like crime, welfare and tax cuts. But they hardly can be considered major issues of contention because, conservative as they sound, candidates of both parties and all ideological stripes are prescribing the same remedies.
So all that the politicians have left to talk about is themselves.
"The issues the pundits said six months ago would determine the outcome of these races could hardly be more irrelevant," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster.
A leading Republican colleague agreed. "When you look back, this is not going to be the campaign that debated health care or foreign policy or taxes or recession," said Robert Teeter, who was President Bush's pollster. "It's none of them. What underlies this is the sense the Government and the Congressional process don't work."
Even the campaign's one big issue doesn't look and sound much like a campaign issue. It may be that some Americans would cheerfully tolerate a few more potholes on the Interstate highways, or drastic cuts in Social Security, for the cause of shrinking the Government. No one can tell, because no one is asking. Instead, politicians are crafting broad anti-Government sound bites to capitalize on public disaffection without discussing the proper role of the Government they seek to reform.
With little impetus to raise specifics, the candidates are sounding alike. House Speaker Tom Foley, a 30-year Congressional veteran who could smother his rival with the details of his legislative accomplishments, is instead running television commercials that could just as easily be made for a Republican challenger who had never set foot in the capital. In one, Mr. Foley makes his clearest break with conventional liberalism when he is unapologetic about advocating the death penalty: "We have to deal with the root causes of crime, but justice today demands more than social justice."
In the commercials of Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, there is little clue that he has been in office for four years and was in the Senate for eight. Rather than list his accomplishments as the career politician that he is, Mr. Wilson focuses his commercials on crime and immigration. The same subjects figure heavily in the advertisements of Kathleen Brown, Mr. Wilson's Democratic challenger.
The distaste for issues is striking because it has been only a few months since Americans were telling pollsters they wanted more issue-oriented political dialogue. After polls showed the public was put off by the lack of substance in the 1988 campaign, Presidential candidates in 1992 sought to out-wonk one another with policy booklets.
Maybe it was too much. Maybe some voters over the years have fooled the pollsters, and themselves, about how much serious discussion they really want. Maybe their hopes were raised with the resurgence of issues in the 1992 campaign, only to be dashed when they saw that even a White House and Congress controlled by the same party could not do many of the things they set out to accomplish. Polls show that public anxieties have grown far deeper than simple concern about how their representative voted on a bill; they are worried about things that they do not think any politician can remedy, like moral decay of society, their safety and their financial security.
Politicians do not boast about their successes. Poll show that most people are not aware of recent accomplishments like the successful efforts to cut the growth of the deficit. 'Candidates running campaigns are are always pure opportunists in terms of what they talk about," said Gary Jacobson, a political science professor at the University of California at San Diego. "This year, they read the electorate as being unpersuaded by talk of policy and talks of delivering benefits. The only thing that's moving them is their dislike of professional politicians."
This dislike is good news for Republicans. They are fielding the most challengers, and they note with pride that they are not steeped in policy. "There's not a lot of need to be creative," said David S. Johnson, executive director of the Virginia Republican Party. " 'Congressman X voted with Clinton X percent of the time.' Boom. There's your message. It is not rocket science."
 
It's Not My Job
 When they catch their breath from hounding President Clinton, Republicans like to boast about what they will not do, or what they will dismantle. The bare issue papers put out by the campaign of Representative Michael Huffington, a California Republican running for the Senate, did not, until recently, tackle staples like health care, foreign policy or education.
At an issues forum last week in Fort Walton Beach, Fla., Joe Scarborough, a Republican House candidate, offered one answer for every question about policy. Welfare reform? "I personally don't believe the Federal Government should be involved in welfare." Health care? "That's an issue for the states." Crime? "The Federal Government shouldn't be involved."
It is not a matter of candidates' not caring about issues, so much as their sense that the public does not want to hear about them. Many Republicans linked to the Christian right were drawn to politics because of their opposition to abortion and homosexual rights. But such candidates do not dare raise those issues out of fear of alienating voters.
Touchy, perhaps, about the criticism that their party does not stand for anything, more than 300 Republican House candidates last month signed a "Contract with America," an agenda of issues they would pursue if elected. It includes such old standards as the line-item veto and a balanced budget.
But on the campaign trail, Republicans are much more eager to talk about Mr. Clinton than about the contract, and polls show that most voters do not even know what it is. Maybe that is why Professor Jacobson has second thoughts about his decision to set up a computer file on gun control, trade, the budget and other votes before Congress to see how they influence who gets elected. "My guess is when I run the numbers I'm not going to come up with much," he said. "These votes won't have any effect in any state."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: CASABLANCA, MOROCCO (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CASABLANCA, MOROCCO (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); TAX LAW (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



558 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
We Think, Therefore We Must Rethink

BYLINE: By JONATHAN LANDMAN 

 BODY:
PITY the poor social scientist. On Monday he is criticized for lack of scientific rigor. On Tuesday the problem is too much science -- a "scientism" based on crude imitation of the real thing.
Some of the social sciences -- economics, for example, and demography -- have adapted the quantitative methods of the natural sciences with much-admired results. Others struggle with the nature of their inquiry. Is political science a science? An art? Or just politics?
Enter the social scientist Charles Murray and the psychologist Richard J. Herrnstein and their scramble through the thickets of psychometrics, the century-old science of human intelligence. Their new book, "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life" (The Free Press), with its argument that intelligence is inherited, largely immutable and distributed unequally among ethnic groups, has loosed the predictably furious debate: Are I.Q. tests, upon which the authors rely heavily, accurate measures of brain power? Is the nature-nurture problem really largely irrelevant? Has science shown that black Americans, with a few exceptions, have little choice but to accept permanent second-class status (ameliorated, the authors suggest in a separate essay in The New Republic, by a pride of "clan")? 
 Social science looks at these kinds of questions its own way, with standard deviations, correlation coefficients and logistic regressions. But natural science has a completely different approach.
When neurobiologists ask, "What is intelligence?" they look not to tests but to the brain itself: the tangle of neurons with the curious ability to think. And before the anthropologists sort out the relationship between intelligence and race, they find themselves asking whether race is even a useful idea. What is most striking about both issues is how little science really knows. Which raises another question: if intelligence is a scientific enigma and race a cipher, where does that leave the deeper mystery of the place where the two intersect?
 JONATHAN LANDMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE; GENETICS AND HEREDITY HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (93%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); BRAIN (74%); WRITERS (74%); STATISTICAL METHOD (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: LANDMAN, JONATHAN; MURRAY, CHARLES; HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD J

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



559 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Islam Bent Into Ideology: Vengeful Vision of Hope

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: CAIRO

 BODY:
THE carnage unleashed last week by a suicide bomber on a Tel Aviv bus, following by hours the murder of two more foreigners by Islamic militants in Algeria, were reminders, if any were needed, that the heady Middle East peace process and the end of the cold war have done little to stem the march of revolutionary Islam.
It is more than two decades since clerics began to mobilize the downtrodden Shiites of Lebanon, and it has been 15 years since the ayatollahs seized Iran. Yet nowhere has the Islamic revolutionaries' promise -- of a true social revolution for the forgotten Muslim -- been achieved. 
 To Westerners, it might seem that the immense price in blood and the paltry social accomplishments in both societies might have, by now, begun to disillusion many potential followers of what is commonly called Islamic fundamentalism. The isolation, impoverishment and tyranny of Iran, in particular, are often contrasted to the rush of foreign aid, debt relief and international acceptance now showered on Arab lands or leaders who forswear confrontation.
But this is a view from outside -- or from above. Most individual Arabs, in fact, suffer from mounting unemployment, corrupt dictatorships and declining living standards that drive them to seek desperate, radical alternatives to the status quo. Whether or not Yasir Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin are making peace, the majority of Palestinians in Gaza and much of the West Bank live in squalor; hence the appeal of Hamas, the militant Islamic group that says it arranged the bombing on the bus, which killed 21 people.
Despite infusions of American aid to Egypt or French assistance to Algeria, the average Egyptian or Algerian lives in one or two rooms that are packed with relatives because he does not earn enough to establish a home; hence the appeal of revolutionaries who have devastated Egyptian tourism by shooting foreigners, or of an Islamic party that was kept from electoral victory in Algeria last year only by a throttling of democracy.
These people, on the margins of existence, do not have the luxury of dispassionately examining the achievements or failures of the Islamic radical movement in other lands. They seek a solution to their own profound estrangement from society. And the utopian vision dangled before them gives them a purpose and promises them a way out.
 
Identity and Illusion
 None of this should be surprising. Consider the leftist Salvadoran rebels of the 1980's, who held up the Nicaraguan and Cuban revolutions as models long after most Cubans and Nicaraguans had become bitterly disillusioned with their experiments. "A great deal of intelligence can be invested in ignorance," Saul Bellow once noted, "when the need for illusion is deep."
Many of the militants find in radical movements an identity denied to them in a hostile world. This is especially true of Algerians, many of whom speak more French than Arabic yet feel the sting of knowing they are unwelcome in France. Cast loose from their villages and adrift in the huge urban sprawls of Cairo, Algiers or Gaza, millions of Arabs are now offered membership in a wide community of believers -- just as other movements offered previous generations a sense of belonging in the "revolutionary world proletariat" or anticolonial "liberation movements."
It took a long time for the Israelis, and most socialist Arab regimes, to figure out how dangerous or appealing the new movements might become. In the early years of the Palestinian uprising, while Mr. Rabin was Defense Minister, Israel turned a blind eye to Hamas, hoping it would fracture the Palestine Liberation Organization. Egypt, Tunisia and Algeria gave air time to radical clerics in the naive belief that they were just fostering an Arab identity. The United States supported Islamic rebels in Afghanistan. And Saudi Arabia's King Fahd financed radicals in his own land for years, before realizing it was his head they wanted.
This is, after all, a revolutionary movement more than it is a religious one. It fights in the name of religion, but it is not interested in theological nuance. Just as liberation theologians turned the Gospel into a guerrilla manifesto in Latin America, the Islamic militants have twisted the Koran to their own purposes. Religion, for such radicals, is not about ethics, values and respect for the dignity of human life -- all of which resonate in the Koran -- but about empowerment. And for all their religious veneer, the revolutionary Islamic movements have proved no less cynical in the way they manipulate belief than were the fascist or Communist movements that held such appeal earlier this century.
The lofty, utopian society the militants aspire to establish allows them, in their eyes, to jettison the very scruples they say they advocate. And this is intoxicating, offering secular power to the dispossessed -- and a chance to see themselves as the agents of divine will. Young men cast aside by society become their nation's vanguard. In numerous conversations with militants, all spoke about the exhilaration and uplift they felt when they discovered and then were inducted into the brotherhood. Many of the suicide bombers in the Lebanese civil war were, not surprisingly, orphans.
The movement has, like other revolutionary movements, harnessed the alienation, hatred, envy and frustration of those denied the imperial comforts and privileges that many in the West assume to be their right. Outside calls for reason and reconciliation, to those trapped in stagnant political systems and poverty, ring fatuous and hypocritical.
In this part of the Arab world, the Persian Gulf war was not about the liberation of Kuwait but about returning Kuwaitis to one of the most gluttonous and indolent life styles on the planet. It was about the sanctity of cheap oil.
For the West, the discomfiting fact is that those Arabs it is now coming to terms with -- Mr. Arafat, Hafez al-Assad, Hosni Mubarak -- already seem like relics of another era to much of the Arab world. They speak for shrinking elites even as they accept the West's life style and spirit of compromise; they offer old nationalist phrases and half-steps toward democracy as a vaccine against radical Islam, even as it spreads through their deeply wounded societies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Hamas fighter in the Gaza Strip. (Associated Press); In Cairo's slums, Western aid means little; fundamentalism promises the dispossessed both power and glory. (Sean Sprague/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (95%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; IRAN; LEBANON; ALGERIA (95%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STANDARD OF LIVING RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); HAMAS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TRENDS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS YASIR ARAFAT (55%); YITZHAK RABIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



560 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: NEW YORK;
Wild-Card Candidate Shakes Up The Cuomo-Pataki Calculations

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Oct. 22

 BODY:
New York's gubernatorial campaign stormed today into western New York, a critical battleground where the political terrain has shifted because of the wild-card candidacy of B. Thomas Golisano, a favorite son with exceedingly deep pockets who appeals to this region's independent spirit.
While traveling in western New York today, both Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and his Republican opponent, State Senator George E. Pataki, made an issue of Mr. Golisano's potential to split the anti-Cuomo vote in what remains a tight race. 
 Mr. Pataki, speaking in Rochester, Mr. Golisano's hometown, argued that New Yorkers who truly want to dethrone Mr. Cuomo should vote Republican, suggesting that a vote for Mr. Golisano on the Independence Fusion line would be squandered and would only help re-elect the Governor.
"I think that come Election Day, the people of this state are going to want their vote to count," Mr. Pataki said. "There are those who say we need change, and I believe every one who wants a change is going to vote for me, because they understand I am the only alternative to Mario Cuomo and that a vote for any other candidate is a wasted vote."
Mr. Cuomo, in Niagara Falls, countered by reciting Mr. Golisano's own argument. "This notion that you need a Republican-Conservative to beat Cuomo is ridiculous," he said. "There's plenty of time between now and then to get the 45 to 52 percent of the vote that you're going to need to win this thing. Now if he keeps making that argument, he's going to get a lot of votes."
Asked whose votes Mr. Golisano might win, the Governor said, "He's going to get them from the people who hate Cuomo."
Mr. Cuomo began the day on Goat Island at Niagara Falls State Park, proposing new state grants for the area and posing with Shirley and Thomas Campbell on their wedding day as the Niagara River plunged 180 feet just behind them. He also met privately with Poland's President, Lech Walesa, a hero among this city's sizable Eastern European population, attended a rally of black supporters in Buffalo and shared the dais with Mr. Walesa at a 50th anniversary dinner for the Polish American Congress, a civic group.
Mr. Pataki hopped from Syracuse to Rochester to Buffalo, reinforcing concerns about the upstate economy by appearing at several factories that recently laid off hundreds of workers. Mr. Pataki's schedulers passed up a chance for their candidate to appear with Mr. Walesa at a luncheon in Buffalo, choosing instead to have him touch down in the Syracuse and Rochester media markets.
Meanwhile, Mr. Golisano, whose campaign has existed mostly on television, tried a little retail campaigning at a fall festival in Rochester, where he pumped hands and slapped backs in front of a decidedly friendly crowd.
With nearly a quarter of the state's registered voters in New York's 24 westernmost counties, this is always important territory for gubernatorial candidates. But the wrench thrown by Mr. Golisano into the conventional wisdom this year has clearly increased the stakes in the west.
A poll published this week in The Daily News showed Mr. Golisano taking 13 percent of the vote in upstate New York, an increase from 8 percent a week earlier. His statewide share of the vote was 6 percent.
Even more stunning was a poll published in The Rochester Democrat and Chronicle this week that showed Mr. Golisano, a wealthy businessman who says he plans to spend $10 million on advertising, with 31 percent in the 28th Congressional District, which includes most of Monroe County. That placed him only three percentage points behind Mr. Cuomo and eight percentage points ahead of Mr. Pataki.
Some of the poll's findings suggest that Mr. Golisano appeals more to Republican voters than to Democrats, and that he may lure independent voters away from Mr. Pataki as well. A number of political leaders in western New York -- and Mr. Golisano himself -- believe that his candidacy primarily threatens Mr. Pataki.
"Typically, upstate New York has been a Republican stronghold and Mr. Pataki is the Republican candidate, so at least initially it will have more of an impact on him than on Mr. Cuomo," Mr. Golisano said in an interview on Friday.
Strategists in both parties do not believe that Mr. Golisano can duplicate his Monroe County numbers outside of his home area. But there is no question, they say, that western New York is fertile ground for an independent candidacy.
In general, Ross Perot did better in western New York than in other parts of the state in the 1992 Presidential campaign. He exceeded his statewide average of 16 percent in each of western New York's three largest counties -- Erie (Buffalo), Monroe (Rochester), and Onondaga (Syracuse) -- and finished second in Erie with 27 percent of the vote. He broke 30 percent in Niagara and Cattaraugus counties.
There are almost an equal number of registered Democrats and Republicans in the state's 24 westernmost counties. Erie, Monroe and Onondaga counties have been responsible for about 15 percent of the vote in each of the last three gubernatorial elections. Mr. Cuomo did well in those counties in 1986 and 1990, when he faced lackluster opposition, but lost Monroe and Onondaga to Lewis Lehrman in 1982.
As he did today, Mr. Cuomo boasts frequently about the time he spends in western New York and the money he has delivered to the region. Today, for instance, he announced that he would propose in next year's state budget a $10 million grant for local governments in Niagara County that have lost property tax revenue because of the toxic waste disposals at Love Canal.
"I don't want you to think of it, you know, as coming bearing gifts," Mr. Cuomo said.
But in the next breath, the Governor said he has proven that Albany does not neglect western New York. "The complaint" in western New York, he said, "always was, 'Well, they don't care about us down there. We're too far away. They think we're Michigan.' You're about 6, 7, 8 percent of the whole population of the State of New York up here. You get about 18, 19 percent of all the economic development money."
The economy in western New York is stronger than in the state as a whole, with unemployment in many counties a full percentage point below the state average. But that does not seem to have assuaged the discontent with Mr. Cuomo in many places, according to Democratic officials.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the gubernatorial campaign moved into western New York yesterday, State Senator George E. Pataki, left, appeared at a fund-raiser in Buffalo. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo stopped at Niagara Falls, N.Y., where he met Shirley and Thomas Campbell, newlyweds from North Tonawanda, N.Y. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); STATE PARKS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; GOLISANO, B THOMAS; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



561 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Behind U.S. Shield, Aristide Copes With a Stripped Nation

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 22

 BODY:
The crowds outside the palace gates have thinned. Now, the lines inside are long. Three years after President Jean-Bertrand Aristide became a prisoner of exile and a week after his triumphant homecoming, he is struggling to repair a Government so gutted and abused that on his first night back he took his bath in the National Palace with a bucket and a cup.
By Wednesday, the lack of running water made bathrooms so foul that a Cabinet Minister said he had to roll up his pants to keep from wrecking a good suit. Carpets are dirty, walls are scuffed and the temperature in some rooms soars past 90 since the air conditioning does not work. 
 There is no respite. When the President tried to leave the palace once this week, his car was mobbed and banged by supporters desperate for a glimpse of this man who once stirred hope with fiery speeches and sermons. He did not join them but retreated back behind the circle of safety made of United States soldiers wearing camouflage uniforms. He has not left the palace since.
Even when he stands outside, gazing at the street where tens of thousands welcomed him with songs and screams last Saturday, he stands behind a thick shield that many Haitians see as a signal of his new separation, the semi-transparent hand of Washington, part protection, part control.
Now, secure within the palace grounds, behind its tall green fence and long expanse of lawn, in a mammoth white building once hung with canvasses by French Impressionists but now stripped, dirty and bare, Father Aristide presides over a Government that can barely function in a country famous for despair.
As he stays out of public view, Haitians at every level of this splintered society are waiting to see if he has made the change from priest to politician. They are watching, too, for signs that three years in Washington quenched his fire and made a puppet of a once-defiant populist.
The nation is waiting for Father Aristide to appoint a new prime minister and fashion a Government that can channel hundreds of millions of dollars in foreign aid to build roads, open hospitals, renovate schools, replant barren mountainsides and tend to the overwhelming needs of 6 million people. But the President is taking the temperature of his countrymen and is taking his time with major decisions.
Some say that is why he has not gone to the streets, where his base is. Others cite security concerns, or say impatiently that he is busy or overworked. His absence may be driven by a simpler truth. When the poor and hungry of this country see his face and hear his voice, they go a little wild. A low profile is good politics, and good politics are now the President's priority.
Already, there are signs of transformation. While absent from public view, he has shown a more statesmanly mien inside the palace, visitors say. At a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, after a general welcome and a description of his sponge bath on his first night, he said: "I cannot believe I am here. Is it true?" But he then conducted a crisply professional meeting at which each minister provided a grim outline of the work ahead.
So far, he has kept his public words to calming, almost hypnotic calls for peace and reconciliation. His private meetings are dominated by talk of investment, growth and industry. Hour by hour, as others wait outside, he meets with politicians, ministers, old friends and the foreign officials who ushered him home and now promise considerable aid.
Some critics have been quick to chafe at his deliberations over a prime minister. They say he has had three years to devise a program and identify the people he wants to run it. They say the delay will slow the recovery and rob the President of credibility.
But others say the complexities of the political situation and the nightmarish problems of just getting government going must be delicately weighed and handled first.
"He has to test the ground," said Fritz Mevs 2d, vice president of the Haytian American Sugar Company and a member of the wealthiest family in the country. "He has to take his time. Being outside of Haiti for three years, he needs a clearer reading."
In a meeting in the palace and several telephone calls afterward, Mr. Mevs -- who so aggressively supports the President that he printed 30,000 color photographs of him to distribute around Port-au-Prince -- said he detected a profound change in the former priest. "Yes," Mr. Mevs said. "He has changed. It is a very fast speed to go from being a priest to being a President."
It is precisely such a change that the Clinton Administration gambled on when it sent 20,000 troops here to pave the way for his return. Once reviled by the business class as an irresponsible demagogue who could excite crowds but not provide a plan to help them, Father Aristide is now trying to show them that he can be a technocrat and guide as well as an inspiring speaker.
"You have to remember that the coalition that brought him to power is not the same coalition that brought him back now," said a prominent intellectual who is under consideration as the next prime minister. "He will not be the first politician to change course. That is the bread and butter of politics."
Early signs, though few, are of a man perhaps tempered by three years of tough and often angry negotiations with the White House, the State Department and United Nations officials. His oratory is quieter, several ministers said. His demeanor is more mature.
"Aristide has to gather all the country's resources in order to succeed," said Victor Benoit, his Education Minister and a normally impassioned speaker who seemed drawn and exhausted Friday.
In every part of the Government, the immediate needs are all-consuming. The national television station was stripped so bare that when the President held his first news conference, the government crew had to erase an old movie to tape it.
"It was the only tape we could find," said Herve Denis, the Minister of Information. "There are no cassettes. There are no microphones. There are no vehicles, no copy machines, no supplies. Nothing."
At every ministry the story is the same. "It's a situation like after the war, when a bombardment has dropped bombs all over the infrastructure and everything is destroyed," said Micha Gaillard, Mr. Benoit's chief of staff. "For the coup leaders, Government offices were a place where the public came to serve the Government, not where the Government served the people."
There are as many problems as desks to find and fill. Mr. Denis said he was receiving death threats from workers hired by the military junta who are angered that they were dismissed upon Father Aristide's return. At another ministry where workers were not replaced, storms of employees who had work before the coup but not afterward demanded their old jobs back.
"We had so many people come today," one minister said Friday, slumped in a chair at home after fighting with job seekers all day long. "They were banging on the door. We had to call security. But we have no security. So, security never came. I finally had to take one guy by the collar -- like this! -- and tell him this was the last time he could do this. But in that case I was bigger than he was."
Ministers must also weigh a 12-page economic plan issued by the presidential team and navigate their way in a political world defined and organized around foreign aid.
Louis Dejoie, the Minister of Commerce, was severely criticized this week for setting gas prices at $3 a gallon. But he sloughed off the criticism as misplaced. "Someone just gave me a piece of paper and said, 'This is the price,' " he said. "Everything was agreed on in Paris and Madrid. I had nothing to do with it."
It is such a hidden hand that most worries Leslie Manigat, who served as President for six months in 1988 and remains in politics. "Aristide has to play the American game in order to survive," he said. "But there will be problems. Aristide is a man of the left. The people around him are leftist. Yet they are applying a rightist policy. For a while, things will be fine. But there are always frictions in an occupation."
At the palace, where American soldiers still decide who goes in and out and dark-suited white men wearing earphones and small weapons stride down the faded hallways, the President is said to pace at night, weighing the problems of his country. Some here even say he tours the city in the dark, flying out of the palace in an American military helicopter to look down upon the people he once touched. The story hardly seems true. But the people who tell it fill it with meaning.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who has seldom left the palace since he was restored to power a week ago, lives behind a shield of U.S. troops. A Haitian boy peered through the gates of the presidential palace in Port-au-Prince on Friday as American soldiers stood guard on a Humvee. (Phillippe Diederich/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



562 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
GULF WAR'S LOOSE ENDS
The rapid ending to the Persian Gulf war left Saddam Hussein in power and major military units still functioning, leading to a new threat more than three years later. 1
 
IN HAITI, HARSH REALITY SETS IN
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide is back in Haiti, presiding over a Government that can barely function, and he is taking his time with decisions as Haitians watch. 1 

For a Haitian artist, the President's return was too late. 12
 
SAVING MUSIC IN SARAJEVO
The efforts by students and teachers in a Sarajevo conservatory that has been battered physically and emotionally by the Bosnian war is an example of the fight for what is left for the soul of Sarajevo. 3
 
THE DISAPPEARED, IN RWANDA
Civil authorities in Rwanda are concerned about reports of a series of killings and abductions that indicate there have been abuses of the new Government's powers. 14
 
ECONOMIC REBIRTH IN GHANA
Ghana is showing many signs of an economic boom, from a growing stock market to construction in the capital, and many say it is showing the way to recovery based on free-market economics. 14
 
Hungary is discussing the return of property seized from Jews. 4
 
Jordan's leader defended his peace pact with Israel. 6
 
National 16-36
 
REPUBLICAN GAINS EXPECTED
In the races for governor around the nation, Republicans seem to be poised for significant gains, with their candidates ahead or in close races in the eight most populous and politically important states. 1
 
BUSH SHOWS FLORIDA STYLE
With a lopsided smile that recalls his father's, Jeb Bush is making a strong push for governor of Florida, using a style much more conservative than that of his father. 18
 
CLINTON CHANGING HIS TUNE
When he has campaigned in California before, President Clinton has dwelt on the economy, but this time he emphasized a tough law on students who take guns to school. 20
 
THE VANISHING BANK BRANCH
With many customers using automated teller machines and other electronic devices, big banks around the country are preparing to close more local branches. 1
 
INSURERS STILL FACE LOSS
Even though they managed to fight off sweeping changes in health care because they entailed measures they disliked, insurance companies could still lose the war as states adopt more stringent regulations of their activities. 22
 
CITIES NOT MURDER MECCAS
Recent findings by historians are calling into question the traditional assumption of criminology that the anonymity and crowding of cities are factors causing violence. 16
 
Metro 37-44, 56
 
THIRD CANDIDATE MAKES IMPACT
New York's gubernatorial campaign stormed into western New York, where the political terrain has been changed by the wild-card candidacy of B. Thomas Golisano, a favorite son with deep pockets. 1
 
In Golisano's hometown, it's him or Cuomo. 41
 
A CONTEST OF OUTSIDERS
In this year of the anti-incumbent, almost any Washington connection beyond a trip with the kids to the Lincoln Memorial is being used as a weapon against Congressional candidates. The evidence is all around the New York region. 37
 
DEATH OF A HOMELESS MAN
The ambulance crew and the hospital and the Emergency Medical Service authorities all said the same thing, that they had done everything they were supporsed to do. But still a man died on the sidewalk in the shadow of a hospital.37
 
DIVISIONS OVER VENDORS
The passionate reaction to the Giuliani Administration's move to oust street vendors from 125th Street in Harlem has revealed deep divisions over whether the vendors' removal has left Harlem better off. 1
 
A HAMPERED INVESTIGATION
The investigation into the subway shooting of an undercover transit policeman by an off-duty New York City police officer has been plagued by tension and mistrust. 37
 
Obituaries 45
 
Jerome B. Wiesner, science adviser to President Kennedy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (73%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DESERT STORM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INSURANCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); BANK BRANCHES (66%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (66%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); GOVERNORS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



563 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: Vendors' Ouster and Boycott Divide Harlem

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
On the streets of Harlem, amid the maze of shouting pickets, besieged merchants, confused shoppers and curious residents, the Giuliani administration's move last week to oust street vendors from the area's busiest thoroughfare is generating passions unseen in years. It has also revealed deep divisions over whether the vendors' removal has left Harlem better off.
It is a question complicated by a number of factors. Foremost among them has been displaced vendors' continued picketing of stores on 125th Street, urging shoppers to boycott businesses not owned by black merchants. And with some merchants saying that their already-fragile businesses are beginning to feel the impact of the picketing and vendors saying they have effectively lost their jobs, there is no unanimity of opinion in Harlem. 
 Some politicians and business and development groups there praise Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's removal of more than 1,000 street vendors from 125th Street as a bold move to rid the area of non-taxpaying pests who provide no shortage of congestion and debris. And they also charge that by undercutting prices, the vendors damage the very businesses that employ Harlem residents. The boycott, they further suggest, is a misguided and racist response that will only damage the entire community.
Others among Harlem's residents and political figures revile the Mayor's action as a crude flexing of police muscle aimed at depriving street vendors of meager jobs that have kept them off welfare. Vending, they argue, has played a critical role in Harlem's economic infrastructure, having lured tourists in droves to a festive marketplace atmosphere. A boycott of white and Asian-owned stores, these people argue, will bring pressure on the city to allow vendors a place on the commercial strip.
The divisions emerged when the Giuliani administration dispatched more than 500 police officers to Harlem on Monday to prevent vendors from setting up their tables and urging them to operate eight blocks away, in an open-air marketplace designated by the city for vending. Within hours, a protest march ignited a confrontation with police officers and 22 vendors were arrested, most of them charged with disorderly conduct. By the next day, vendors, now joined by a mosque of the Nation of Islam, began picketing the stores, calling for the boycott.
Picketing appeared to intensify yesterday, as did the police presence -- with as many as 50 protesters and 150 officers along the two blocks -- but no arrests were reported. And at the site where the city wants the vendors to relocate, their numbers were also up -- but only to about three dozen, out of the hundreds who previously did business on 125th Street. And many store owners complained that they were now feeling the impact of fewer shoppers.
Because 125th Street is the heart of what is widely considered the symbolic capital of black America, the issue has become closely watched not only throughout the city -- where illegal vending continues in some areas -- but also beyond. As a predominantly black, brown and Democratic area of the city that provided little electoral support to the white, Republican Mayor, Harlem has continually scrutinized Mr. Giuliani's actions, frequently through the prism of race.
Indeed, race is often factored into discussions on the matter. While about 60 percent of the stores on 125th Street are owned by black merchants, an informal survey of the stores in the three-block area at its commercial core indicated that more than three-quarters are owned by white and Asian merchants. The vendors on the street are overwhelmingly black, including a growing number of African immigrants.
One morning last week, Julius Jay sat in his empty boutique, looking somewhat stricken while listening to the chanting of pickets outside his women's clothing store. "If these people continue this browbeating, they will scare away the people and we will all be out of business," said Mr. Jay, who is white and has operated his store for 53 years. "Are we feeling this?" he asked, pointing to the empty store. "You don't see any customers in here, do you? We hire black workers and this is going to hurt them."
Outside the store, a vendor who moved to New York from Senegal three years ago was seething. "They are taking the bread out of our mouths," said the man, who identified himself only as Salid. "We are suffering. And if we have to suffer, then the white and Korean store owners who have done this to us should suffer as well."
On the streets of Harlem, both sides are finding sympathizers and no matter what the category in the cast of characters, no one is marching in lock step. Some political figures like City Councilwoman C. Virginia Fields and Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright have hailed Mr. Giuliani's action. Others, like Councilman Adam Clayton Powell 4th and the Rev. Al Sharpton, have been harshly critical.
Some politicians say they have sympathies with both sides. Former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who wrestled with the issue, said yesterday that "there are legitimate gripes on both sides." But he added that a solution to the problem should be established, and enforced, citywide, with all sides taking part.
"I don't know that the way to solve this problem is to concentrate on Harlem -- with an expensive show of police force -- to the exclusion of other areas of the city where illegal vending continues every day," Mr. Dinkins said.
The Giuliani administration says it is planning similar relocations of vendors in the Bronx and Queens.
Mr. Dinkins said that many vendors operating illegally do not live in Harlem, or in New York City. But he said that "many people who work in New York City do not live in New York City, including 40 to 45 percent of the Police Department."
Leaders of Community Board 10, which includes Central Harlem, have steadfastly supported the crackdown and relocation of vendors. "We have been looking for some action like this on the vendor problem for years," said Barbara Askins, chairwoman of Community Board 10 and executive director of the 125th Street Business Improvement District. "It is a good thing to have 125th Street vendor-free."
But in the adjacent Community Board 9, which includes Western Harlem, Theodore P. Kovaleff, a retired dean at the Columbia University Law School who is the board's chairman, said both the merchants and vendors had legitimate concerns. The board voted on Thursday to volunteer to mediate the dispute among all parties.
"I have found sympathies on both sides of the issue," Mr. Kovaleff said. "The background of each of the major department stores throughout the country was one of starting with a pack on someone's back. That is very much the same as the vendor who is setting out with a table on 125th Street."
Mr. Kovaleff complained, as have some others, about the many police officers on Monday on 125th Street, where more than 500 officers were sent to assure that no vendors set up their tables. "When we've been yelling and screaming about the need for dealing with drug trafficking, we've never seen that kind of police presence," he said.
There are even divisions among groups of black Muslims. The Nation of Islam's Mosque No. 7, two blocks north of 125th Street, joined the side of the vendors' organization -- the 125th Street Vendors Association -- acting as an adviser and supporter of displaced peddlers. But on the corner of Lenox Avenue and 116th Street, another mosque, the Masjid Malcolm Shabazz, is a partner to the Giuliani administration, serving effectively as landlord of two asphalt lots with space for 400 vendors who are being relocated. Each is to pay the mosque $56 a week.
Street vending on 125th Street has been commonplace for years, a nuisance to some residents and business owners and an attraction for tourists and some shoppers. Indeed, they had become a fixture on 125th Street, with tables along the block selling colorful wares at bargain-basement prices, from tapes of Heavy D rap tunes and reams of ornate Nigerian fabrics to Timberland boots and videotapes of Malcolm X speeches.
Over the last decade or more, the number of vendors proliferated, from a hundred or so black Americans to more than 1,000 peddlers, with many -- some estimate the figure to be about half -- coming from West African countries. At the same time, the community board in Central Harlem, along with associations of business owners, civic associations and economic development groups, had pressured elected officials to reduce the number of vendors or remove them outright.
"There have always been vendors, but the complaints have grown dramatically over the last five years," said Councilwoman Fields, who represents Central Harlem and the Upper West Side and has championed the removal of the vendors from 125th Street. "Most people complained that the situation was just getting out of hand."
During the Dinkins administration, there was also an effort to relocate the vendors. Faced with a crackdown in 1992, dozens of vendors staged a raucous protest that disrupted business and traffic on 125th Street. A truce was called and the crackdown was shelved.
But over the years, a business relationship has developed between the vendors and the stores on whose doorsteps they operate. Some businesses stored the goods and equipment of vendors, for $150 to $200 a month. And some store owners sold their own goods on vending tables.
Many store owners, in interviews over the last week, said that vendors created some problems, like competition, trash and difficulty getting deliveries into their stores. But many said that the vendors helped attract an increasingly larger number of shoppers to 125th Street.
Some have suggested that the crucial opposition has come not only from merchants, but also from development organizations, like the 125th Business Improvement District, the Harlem Urban Development Corporation and the Uptown Chamber of Commerce.
"All of these elements together represent people who certainly have their gripes, but also are organized and contribute to political campaigns," said J. Phillip Thompson, an assistant professor of political science at Barnard College.
No one is certain how long the vendors will be able to sustain a boycott. But there seems to be widespread agreement from supporters and detractors of the relocation policy about one point, echoed by Won Duck Kim, the owner of Guy & Gal, a 125th Street clothing store: "Whatever happens from this thing, 125th Street will be a different place."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The police began removing illegal vendors on 125th Street in Harlem Monday as residents chanted in protest. (Steve Singer) (pg. 1); Monday -- Police officers arresting vendors on 125th Street; Tuesday -- Jabbi al Hagi, in white cap, registers for the new vendors market; Wednesday -- Vendors set up shop at a mosque at 116th Street and Lenox Avenue; (Photographs by John Sotomayor/The New York Times); Yesterday -- Vendors set up picket lines on 125th Street. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. 42)
 
Maps: "A CLOSER LOOK: Taking It To the Street"
 Two blocks of West 125th Street that were long home to sidewalk vendors are now a site of protest. There are 66 stores in the two blocks, mostly on the south side; map shows the sites that have been picketed by the vendors and their supporters to press a boycott of nonblack-owned businesses. (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET; BOYCOTTS; BLACKS (IN US) TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); STRIKES (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MAYORS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



564 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: In 4 Years, Disabilities Act Hasn't Improved Jobs Rate

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22

 BODY:
More than four years after Congress passed the Americans with Disabilities Act, a sweeping civil rights law covering people with physical and mental impairments, the number of disabled people entering the work force has not significantly increased, say experts in the field and advocates for the disabled.
Though the law, commonly known as the A.D.A., was intended to bring people with disabilities into the cultural, social and economic mainstreams, the number of disabled people who have entered the work force has hardly changed, even as the number of disabled high school and college graduates has continued to increase. 
 A recent survey conducted for the National Organization on Disabilities found that only 31 percent of disabled people age 16 to 64 were working part time or full time, down slightly from the 33 percent that were found to be employed in a similar survey in 1986.
Another measure comes from tracking disabled people who work in addition to receiving Supplemental Security Income under a program meant to encourage employment. In December 1990, the figure was 6.5 percent; last December, it was only 5.8 percent, according to figures supplied by the Social Security Administration.
One important factor in the lack of progress, experts say, was the recession, which led many companies to cut their work forces.
But Government officials and advocates for the disabled point to a number of other problems that they say the act has made only limited progress in addressing.
They point to lingering prejudice by employers and what they say are unfounded fears that hiring a worker with a disability will drive up already high health insurance costs.
The also point to fears among the disabled about losing health benefits and, more broadly, to what many advocates describe as a culture of dependency not unlike that found among welfare recipients. Many disabled people are too fearful of losing the benefits they have, or are uncomfortable about taking the kind of aggressive action that is often necessary to overcome barriers to employment, these advocates say.
"The A.D.A. unlocked the door, but it didn't push it open," said Susan M. Daniels, associate commissioner for disability at the Social Security Administration.
While Federal officials ponder changes in the system, people like David Grimes, 24, who was born with cerebral palsy remain frustrated by their inability to find work.
For the last two and a half years, Mr. Grimes has been a volunteer at the Red Mountain Museum in Birmingham, Ala., despite the disease that contorts his muscles and forces him to use a computer-driven voice synthesizer to communicate. Gamboling about in his electric wheelchair, he greets patrons, explains exhibits and conducts tours.
His presence has been a boon to the museum, which gains both a dedicated, unpaid worker and a raft of good publicity from having a person with a disability so prominently associated with it.
But museum officials, citing insufficient funds, have not placed Mr. Grimes on staff, and the work experience he has gained has not enabled him to find employment elsewhere.
"It's frustrating," said Linda Lohmeyer, Mr. Grimes' mother. While stressing that she did not fault museum officials, she said, "Two and a half years of supporting him, providing him transportation and supplies, getting him work experience, has not been good enough to propel him into the work force."
And for the severely disabled, many of whom would only be able to work at or near the minimum wage, working full time might means bringing home less money than if they continued to receive full Social Security cash payments.
Tim Mason was born deaf and has bone and nerve damage in his legs as a result of a car accident in 1988. He now gets $750 a month, from Social Security Disability Income, plus $400 for child support that goes to his son, who lives with his ex-wife. All payments are tax free.
Mr. Mason earns $4.75 an hour working part time as a butcher in a Birmingham grocery store. If he becomes a full-time worker, which his employer wants him to do, he would earn more than the $500 a month and lose his Medicare eligibility -- and his take-home pay would be less than what he gets from Social Security Disability Income.
"It's almost reinforcing him not to work full time," said Jeff Prince, Mr. Mason's job counselor at United Cerebral Palsy in Birmingham. "You hear so many stories about deadbeats who don't want to work, it's a shame when you get people who want to work full time, but are penalized when they do."
The Federal Government runs two programs for people who are physically or mentally disabled. One, Supplemental Security Income, pays about 4.5 million disabled people who are considered poor a maximum of $446 a month, tax free, plus whatever a state chooses to give recipients. In addition, the program provides health insurance through Medicaid.
The other, Social Security Disability Income, pays 3.7 million disabled people an average of $642 a month if they have a work history before becoming disabled. This program also provides health insurance through Medicare.
Together, the two programs cost $54 billion in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30.
In 1981, in an effort to encourage disabled recipients of Supplemental Security Income to work, Congress enacted a measure that allows them to keep some of the cash benefits even if they go to work. Instead of losing their benefits, the cash payment are reduced by $1 for every $2 the recipient earns on a job. In addition, recipients can keep their Medicaid.
But although the number of people receiving Supplemental Security Income and working part time or full time has increased markedly, the increase has barely kept pace with the jump in new recipients who are not working. As a result, only 5.7 percent of disabled recipients of Supplemental Security Income had a job in March, a slight increase from the 4.8 percent who were working at the end of 1982.
Advocates and Social Security officials agree that the rules governing work incentives in both the S.S.I. and S.S.D.I. plans are complicated and poorly understood by recipients, social workers and job counselors. As a result, disabled recipients often shy away from taking a job.
"I get calls from all over the country from people who want to know what could happen to their health insurance because they get all this conflicting information," said Douglas Martin, a special assistant to the Chancellor at the University of California at Los Angeles and an advocate for people with disabilities.
In August, Ms. Daniels was appointed to head a working group in the Social Security Administration to develop a strategy to induce more disabled recipients of S.S.I. and S.S.D.I. to go to work. She plans to report her preliminary recommendations in December.
Among the solutions Ms. Daniels is considering is allowing S.S.D.I. recipients who work to keep their Medicare coverage by paying a premium based on their income. Currently S.S.D.I. recipients lose their Medicare coverage after working nine months if they earn more than $500 a month.
In the past, the Social Security Administration has resisted easing the Medicare eligibility rules for S.S.D.I. recipients who work, fearing that such a change would tempt disabled people who work and do not receive S.S.D.I. to apply for the Federal health insurance.
But by keeping the system as it is, some advocates say, people with disabilities are often better off staying on the Federal dole. "We have built up a system, well-meaning as it may be, that says it is not in your best interest to go to work," said Gary Edwards, executive director of United Cerebral Palsy in Birmingham.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite the passage of a law meant to encourage the disabled to hold jobs, people like David Grimes, 24 remain frustrated by their inability to find work. Mr. Grimes, a volunteer at the Red Mountain Museum in Birmingham, Ala., uses a computer-driven voice synthesizer to talk to visitors. (Melissa Springer for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Wanted: Jobs for People with Disabilities" tracks number of people with disabilities receiving Social Security benefits, those recieving benefits who are employed, and the total number of people with disabilities receiving benifits. (Source: Social Security Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HANDICAPPED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES DISABLED PERSONS (96%); LABOR FORCE (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CEREBRAL PALSY (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); DISABLED ACCESS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A DAVID GRIMES (68%); TIM MASON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



565 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Historical Study of Homicide and Cities Surprises the Experts

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
The numbers are in and even experts who study violence are surprised: Cities have not always been meccas for murder, and this is not the first heyday for homicides.
Historians now say that homicide rates were extraordinarily high in Europe during the Middle Ages -- and high in the United States during the early 19th century -- then declined steadily until the 1960's. And for centuries, it was villages that were often the scenes of violence. 
 These findings, published in recent papers and presented earlier this month at the annual conference of the Social Science History Association here, contradict a basic tenet of criminology, that violence is endemic to densely packed urban and industrial centers where traditional social ties and values necessarily break down. The new research should "undermine the basic claim that the city, with its anonymity and crowding, is in and of itself the factor in causing violence," said Joan McCord, a professor of criminal justice at Temple University and a past president of the American Society of Criminology.
Eric H. Monkkonen, a professor of American urban history at the University of California at Los Angeles, said: "What we are finding is that violence is not an immutable human problem. There really has been a civilizing process" in which, scholars say, an increase in state power and courtly manners beginning in the 16th and 17th centuries helped curb impulsive, violent behavior.
When the first research on homicide rates was reported more than a decade ago by historians studying England, scholars doubted its accuracy, since it relied on old court records and coroners' data. In recent years, critics have focused on the population base used to calculate homicide rates: precisely how many people were living in England in the 1400's, for example? But with researchers reporting similar results from many countries over centuries, including the United States, Australia, England, France, Italy and the Netherlands, there is mounting agreement, said Lawrence Stone, professor emeritus of history at Princeton, that "all these figures just can't be false."
New data presented at the conference by a Dutch scholar, Pieter Spierenburg, showed that the homicide rate in Amsterdam, for example, dropped from 47 per 100,000 people in the mid-15th century to 1 to 1.5 per 100,000 in the early 19th century.
Professor Stone has estimated that the homicide rate in medieval England was on average 10 times that of 20th century England. A study of the university town of Oxford in the 1340's showed an extraordinarily high annual rate of about 110 per 100,000 people. Studies of London in the first half of the 14th century determined a homicide rate of 36 to 52 per 100,000 people per year.
By contrast, the 1993 homicide rate in New York City was 25.9 per 100,000. The 1992 national homicide rate for the United States was 9.3 per 100,000.
After examining coroners' inquests, Barbara A. Hannawalt, a professor of medieval English history at the University of Minnesota, concluded that most slayings in medieval England started as quarrels among farmers in the field. "They were grubbing for existence," she said. Insults to honor were taken seriously, and violence was the accepted method of settling disputes, since the king's courts were slow, expensive and corrupt.
The knife and the quarterstaff, the heavy wooden stick commonly carried for herding animals and walking on the muddy roads, were the weapons of choice. "Everyone carried a knife, even women," she said, since "if you sat down somewhere to eat, you were expected to bring your own." Given the lack of sanitation at the time, even simple knife wounds could prove deadly.
Why the homicide rate in Europe began to drop in the 16th and 17th centuries is a matter of debate. The most widely accepted explanation stems from the work of Norbert Elias, a sociologist who in the late 1930's introduced the idea of a "civilizing process," in which the nobility was transformed from knights into courtiers, bringing in a new set of manners, and the modern state spread its power over the populace.
Official justice administered by courts replaced private vengeance conducted by feuds, fights and duels. Challenging conventional academic wisdom, Mr. Elias suggested, too, that the power of the state extended to cities first, so urban homicide rates would be comparatively low.
Recent research indicates that he was right. In Philadelphia, for example, the annual average rate of indictments for homicide fell from 4 per 100,000 in the 1850's to 2.2 in the early 1890's, according to research by Roger Lane, a history professor at Haverford College. The drop occurred as the city became industrialized and despite the greater availability of firearms during the period.
As people began to go to work in factories, their behavior was constrained by the foreman and the whistle, Professor Lane has written. Behavior was also improved by the spread of public schools, which acted as "agents of social control," and institutions like the Y.M.C.A. and Sunday schools, which taught morality. Similar developments helped lower New York's homicide rate in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Professor Monkkonen said.
Then came the 1960's. Around the world, homicide rates did an about-face. When President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963, for example, the national homicide rate in the United States was 4.6 per 100,000 people. By 1970, it had doubled, and by 1980 had reached 10.1 per 100,000.
Researchers point to several possible explanations. Post-World War II baby boomers came of age in the 1960's, increasing the number of young men, the most violence-prone group, in the population. The 60's also marked a shift among many social, cultural and economic forces that worked against violence in previous eras. America began moving into a post-industrial economy, governmental authority came into question with the Vietnam war, and the traditional family was threatened by things like divorce.
"The good news is violence can go down," Professor Monkkonen. "The bad news is, we need to learn how to make it happen."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "THROUGH THE YEARS: The Dips and Surges in New York City Homicide Rates" tracks rates compiled by Eric H. Monkkonen, a professor of American urban history at the University of California and Los Angeles, and reserarch associates. The figures are compiled from coroner, newspaper and police data and are updated as new homicides are discovered. The decline from the mid 1800's to the 1960's is attributed by some to the spread of public schools and work in factories. Graph runs from 1800 throught 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); ENGLAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; AMSTERDAM (NETHERLANDS); UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); ENGLAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; RESEARCH; URBAN AREAS HISTORY (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



566 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton's Issue in California: It's Crime, Not the Economy

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BELMONT, Calif., Oct. 22

 BODY:
It used to be that President Clinton came to California to talk about the economy. But as the President and his fellow Democrats have learned to their alarm, that is not what matters most to the state's voters in this uneasy autumn.
So when Mr. Clinton and his entourage arrived here this afternoon, they carried a very different message. With Senator Dianne Feinstein and Kathleen Brown, the Democratic candidate for Governor, looking on, the President seized a pen and signed with election-year flourish a directive calling for "strict enforcement" of a new Federal law requiring states to get tough on kids who carry guns to school. 
 There was no legal need for Mr. Clinton to take that step. But this was California, where Senator Feinstein is fighting for her political life against Representative Michael Huffington, while Kathleen Brown is trying to beat Gov. Pete Wilson. And in both contests, Mr. Clinton now knows, what counts is anything that shows a candidate is tough on crime.
In casting herself as a crime-fighter, Ms. Feinstein's principal credential has been her role as architect of the assault weapons ban that Congress passed last summer. But she also drafted the measure in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that requires a child who brings a gun to school to be expelled for at least one year. It was to call attention to her toughness that Mr. Clinton flew nearly 3,000 miles this morning to begin a busy political weekend.
The measure will leave local school districts some discretion to ease the punishment in exceptional cases. But it is tougher even than the law now in place in California, which requires only a six-month expulsion, and Senator Feinstein said today that it would make schools safer and save children's lives by putting in place a policy of "zero tolerance" for guns in schools.
A fact sheet distributed by the White House did not mention Senator Feinstein. It said Mr. Clinton had chosen California to issue his directive because the state took the lead two years ago in cracking down on guns in schools. The White House also declared the event to be official rather than political, meaning that taxpayers will bear nearly all its costs.
But there was no real effort to disguise Mr. Clinton's political purpose. With Ms. Brown in trouble in her race and Senator Feinstein by no means secure, the President was simply introducing new tactics in what has been his 21-month-long effort to stave off political disaster in the nation's most populous state.
Today was the 13th time Mr. Clinton has visited California since taking office. Tonight, Mr. Clinton was to turn his attention for the second time this month to raising money for Ms. Brown at a Presidential dinner, which was expected to raise at least $2 million and help provide a last-minute lift to her campaign.
A steady diet of grants, earthquake aid and high-level coddling provided by the Administration to California has begun to help Mr. Clinton back to political health here. Recent polls have shown the President's popularity in the state to have risen from its recession doldrums to well above the national average.
That has made Mr. Clinton less of a political liability for Democrats in California than elsewhere in the country, a factor in evidence today as Ms. Feinstein and a raft of Congressional candidates embraced him with open arms.
But unemployment in the state remains at 8.9 percent, also well above the national rate, and voters' anger over immigration and crime has reached new peaks during a campaign in which Governor Wilson and Representative Huffington have tapped into it adroitly.
That has left Mr. Clinton to ponder the likelihood that the California statehouse will remain in Republican hands and the possibility that Democrats could lose one of two Senate seats. Either prospect is sufficiently alarming that the President now plans to return to California at least one time before Nov. 8, his aides said today.
But first, he must complete a week that will take him on a whirlwind tour of the Middle East and may be the most arduous of his Presidency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); GUN CONTROL (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CHILDREN (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (74%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%); 

PERSON: BROWN, KATHLEEN (TREASURER); FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



567 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: A Reluctant Beneficiary Of Crime Bill

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: MOFFETT, Okla., Oct. 22

 BODY:
The Federal Government awarded this tumbledown town a three-year grant of $106,000 last week from the crime bill to make the dirt streets of Moffett safer, and the 340 locals have been in a dither ever since.
For one thing, they do not have a police department, or much of a crime problem either, some say. 
 To receive the money, they have to come up with a 9 percent match, said a Justice Department spokesman, Bert Brandenburg. That is more than the town's annual budget.
For a town that had to hold a barbecue to raise $2,000 to clean up after the Arkansas River flooded in 1990, that is real money. But Mr. Brandenburg said the town had three years to provide the match.
Ruby Lindsey, who raised her children in Moffett, said: "I wish in a way it never came through. It's caused a lot of friction."
The grant application was submitted by Jimmy Jones, who was dismissed last year after 18 months as the lone police officer in the town, which is all of seven blocks long and four blocks wide. Residents said they had run out of money for and patience with Mr. Jones, who patrolled in his own 1977 Pontiac Firebird after the town's Ford LTD cruiser gave out.
Now David Lindsey, Ms. Lindsey's former husband and one of two Town Council members, is saying that Mr. Jones, who was paid $120 a week, applied for the grant simply to win his job back.
Mr. Brandenburg said the town's Mayor and two Town Council members signed the application, which cited the town's proximity to a rough part of Fort Smith, Ark., and problems with domestic abuse.
"We would never send somebody money when they either didn't need it, couldn't use it or could not afford the matching requirement," Mr. Brandenburg said on Friday. "They specifically asked for this amount of money on these terms."
Mr. Jones said he believed the town needed police protection.
The rest of the town's residents are taking sides, and city leaders are looking into what to do next.
The Mayor, David Carolina, said there was little need for law enforcement in this sleepy town. Mr. Carolina, who collects aluminum cans for extra money, said the biggest problem was speeding.
"Kids are speeding up and down this highway," he said of the potholed lane running through town. "All we need is one policeman, part time."
He let out a belly laugh when told that the county undersheriff was recommending a police chief and three officers for the town.
"We don't need one, let alone three," he said.
The town, though, has had its share of trouble.
A few years ago, vandals broke into the elementary school and stole a television set and videocassette recorder. And it has had its town bullies and fistfights.
"There are fights between people, but most of the people are kin," Ms. Lindsey said.
Two recent fights led to homicides, with one of those slayings stemming from a dispute over drug money. Mr. Brandenburg said the grant application noted domestic abuse and mentioned a 1993 death.
In the 1940's and 1950's, Moffett was a party town for soldiers on leave. But when too many servicemen turned up drunk or dead after a night of gambling and womanizing in Moffett, the military posted a sign at the edge of town: "Off Limits to All Military Personnel."
The sign stood for decades, until a car plowed it down.
Moffett, Mr. Brandenburg said, is a poor town where the average household income is less than $5,000 a year, well below the poverty level. He said high unemployment, a low literacy rate and the low income were part of a recipe for problems.
The application said the town was vulnerable to drug trafficking, because it was near a rundown area of Fort Smith and accessible from Interstate 40. It said domestic abuse appeared "to be cycling continuously through the years."
Undersheriff Danny Hoover of Sallisaw County, who occasionally patrols the town, said Moffett needed to become serious about law enforcement. "Common sense will tell you when they know there's no law, the crime's going to come here," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of Moffett.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT SMITH, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MOFFETT (OKLA); UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); FORT SMITH, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); BUDGETS (71%); RIVERS (55%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%); 

PERSON: BERT BRANDENBURG (91%); DAVID LINDSEY (78%); JIMMY JONES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



568 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Unfazed, a Utah Town Prepares to Burn a Toxic Piece of the Past

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOOELE, Utah

 BODY:
Half a century ago the Army marched into the Rush Valley here, cleared the brush and then filled 208 concrete bunkers with an arsenal of mortar rounds, rockets and bombs carrying mustard and nerve gas.
Now the officers at the Tooele Army Depot are testing a $450 million incinerator designed to destroy the chemical munitions, as required by treaties signed with the Soviet Union in the 1980's. It is the first of eight such plants that the Army wants to build in the United States to do away with an estimated 63 million-pound stockpile of chemicals, some so deadly that a barest drop of them on the skin will kill. 
 In the seven other states where incinerators are planned, communities are battling the Army, calling the plants poorly designed and inherently unsafe. The critics seemed to gain an important ally last month when Steve Jones, chief safety officer at the Tooele incinerator, was dismissed for repeatedly complaining of what he called dangerous flaws in the plant's design and management.
But here in the high desert an hour west of Salt Lake City, Mr. Jones's criticism of the plant did not cause much stir among elected leaders. In fact, the other day Leland Hogan, a rancher who is one of three Tooele County commissioners, stood in the shadow of the vast incinerator and said the county was ready to do those seven states and the rest of the nation a public service.
"We think it would be a good idea for them to send all that nerve gas and mustard here to be burned," Mr. Hogan said during a tour conducted by the Army. "Each one of these incinerators will cost in excess of $1 billion to build and operate. Just from a purely economic point of view, it makes sense."
Nearby was Dr. Suzanne Winters, a biomedical engineer who is chief science adviser to Gov. Mike Leavitt. When told of Mr. Hogan's comment, she almost blanched. Dr. Winters explained that Governor Leavitt supported the Army's plan to incinerate nerve agents in Tooele. But she added, "The Governor has made it clear that Utah will not accept chemical munitions from any other state."
In 1985, when it approved the program for dismantling the chemical arms stockpile, Congress directed the Army to destroy the munitions in the communities where they were stored. It is always possible, though, for Congress to reverse itself. After all, Mr. Hogan said, the chemical demilitarization program, as it is called, is billions of dollars over budget and stymied by political opposition in other states.
Draped across 7,000 square miles of sand and sagebrush, Tooele (pronounced too-EHL-uh) County is nearly as large as New Jersey but has only 28,900 residents, and its wide-open spaces invited secretive and dangerous military projects. In all of the United States, no other county has lived so intimately with so many of the cold war's toxic residues. More recently the county has encouraged some hazardous civilian chemical programs as well.
An hour west of the Tooele Army Depot is Skull Valley, where the Army built the Dugway Proving Ground, until 1969 the chief site for open-air testing of the military's biological weapons. In the western part of Tooele County, officials also established a special zone where radioactive wastes from the processing of uranium for atomic bombs are stored. Nearby are two newer commercial hazardous-waste incinerators, and a commercial hazardous-waste dump.
In return for being home to all this, Tooele County enjoys a multitude of benefits: well-financed schools, excellent roads, new firefighting and ambulance equipment, a state-of-the-art emergency alarm and evacuation system, and the third-highest per capita income among Utah counties.
From afar, the Army's incinerator is indistinguishable from most other large industrial installations, except that it is built in the center of a vast and otherwise empty desert valley, and just to the north are rows of menacing bunkers filled with some 25 million to 29 million pounds of the most lethal chemicals ever invented.
Within the plant's steel and concrete walls lies a tangle of conveyer systems, robots, vats and bomb handling equipment, all designed to be remotely operated in specially sealed chambers.
The idea behind the plant is to drain nerve agents and mustard gas from bombs and pump the liquid into a 2,700-degree fire. The metal bomb casings and other parts will be cut into pieces and conveyed to another incinerator to be burned and then recycled as scrap.
Because the nerve agents are in explosive shells and warheads, one of the most important technical hurdles that the Army's engineers faced was how to contain the chemicals within the plant in the event a shell exploded. In addition, Tooele County is an earthquake zone.
Thus the plant was built to be a sealed fortress. It has leak-proof air locks, special ventilation systems and other containment mechanisms, all of which have double or triple backup systems. Such elaborate engineering cost more than the Army had expected. A decade ago the Army said that dismantling the chemical weapons stockpile would take a decade to complete and cost $1.7 billion. But the service has already spent $2.6 billion and is likely to spend at least $7 billion more, according to Gen. Walter L. Busbee, the program's director.
No matter how much the military spends, critics say, the burning of nerve gas will never prove to be anything but devilishly tricky. Before the Tooele incinerator was built, a large part of the money was used to build and test a prototype on Johnston Atoll in the North Pacific. Studies by the Pentagon and Congress have found, however, that the prototype has operated fitfully: in several instances containment was breached, and small amounts of nerve agent escaped into the atmosphere.
In the seven other states where incinerators are planned -- Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland and Oregon -- community leaders are urging the Army to give more-serious consideration to alternatives, like detoxifying the chemicals in high-pressure steam or destroying them in molten baths of metal, which the critics believe would be safer.
Craig Williams, director of the Chemical Weapons Working Group, a Kentucky-based national coalition that opposes incineration of nerve agents, said two principal concerns were fueling his movement.
For one thing, he said, burning such profoundly toxic compounds will release into the atmosphere small amounts of other dangerous chemicals, like dioxin, which has been shown to cause cancer and fetal defects in laboratory animals. The Army says its pollution equipment and other technology will eliminate this problem.
But, in addition, home communities fear that after the chemical stockpile has been destroyed, the Army is unlikely to tear down virtually new $1 billion plants that might be used for other tasks, like cleaning up toxic wastes from military installations.
"This is a dimension to the issue that is not receiving enough attention," Mr. Williams said from his office in Berea, Ky. "There is a high potential that wherever these plants are built, communities will be set up for decades of burning military wastes."
Last year a panel of scientists appointed by the National Research Council, a division of the National Academy of Sciences, looked at an array of alternatives: subjecting nerve agents and mustard gas to ultra-high-temperature steam, destroying them in baths of molten metal, detoxifying them with bacteria and other biological organisms.
This year the Army is spending $25 million at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland to test one alternative, neutralizing nerve gas in a chemical solution. But Dr. John P. Longwell, a professor emeritus of chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who was chairman of the National Research Council panel that studied the alternatives, said in an interview that most of the new techniques suffered from economic and political limitations.
He said they would not be ready for industrial-scale application by the middle of the next decade, when treaty-mandated deadlines for destroying the chemical arms kick in. And, he said, the alternative approaches would be no safer than incineration and would almost certainly cost more.
"Technically, incineration is the best understood and the safest," he said. "Politically, it's the most difficult, because people have been led to believe that smokestacks and incineration are bad. On the other hand, neutralizing nerve agents in a chemical process produces sludges and waste materials that have to be safely transported somewhere else. So you can see: they are all tough."
Here in Tooele County, Leland Hogan says his neighbors support the Army's plan to incinerate and believe it is safe -- certainly far safer than years of further waiting to destroy the Tooele stockpile. Last year the Army discovered that 100 gallons of mustard agent had leaked from a tank in one of the Tooele depot's storage bunkers, an accident that was cleaned up without any injuries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite opposition elsewhere, some residents of Tooele County, Utah, say they support a plan by the United States Army to burn a stockpile of hazardous chemicals there, where mustard and nerve gases are stored. (United States Army)
 
Map shows the location of Tooele.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOOELE ARMY DEPOT US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOOELE ARMY DEPOT US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOOELE COUNTY (UTAH); UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; INCINERATORS; ARMIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COUNTIES (71%); APPROVALS (65%); BIOMEDICINE (62%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH MICHAEL O LEAVITT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



569 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Rights Groups Report Abuses In Indonesia

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand

 BODY:
Less than a month before President Clinton travels to Indonesia for a summit meeting with Asian leaders, human rights groups are warning of a deterioration in human rights there, including the recent banning of newspapers and magazines, stepped-up harassment of labor activists and new instances of torture by the military and the police.
Diplomats and human rights groups say Mr. Clinton's impending visit may be part of the reason the Government of President Suharto is eager to silence critics during the meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which starts in November. 
 Among the recently muzzled publications are the nation's most prominent news magazine, Tempo, and two of its hard-hitting competitors, all of which were ordered shut down over the summer, a move described by Indonesian journalists as the most serious blow to free speech in Indonesia in decades.
Human rights groups, disappointed by Mr. Clinton's decision in May to retain trade privileges for China despite human rights abuses, worry that he will offer similar treatment to Indonesia, a vast archipelago nation of more than 190 million people with a booming economy.
"The message to China and the world was that human rights will be the sacrificial lamb to trade," Amnesty International said in a statement issued in September with a report on human rights abuses in Indonesia. "That message is now in danger of being played out again in the U.S.-Indonesia dialogue."
The Clinton Administration has announced that it will not raise human rights issues at the summit meeting. The United States Embassy in Indonesia said in a statement that while human rights would be raised "with individual countries on a bilateral basis, our discussions in APEC do not include rights issues."
In anticipation of the meeting, which will be attended by leaders of most of the major Pacific Rim nations, human rights groups have issued reports intended to remind the leaders of the human rights record of their Indonesian hosts.
Amnesty International said in its report that Indonesia was "a country ruled with an iron rod, where dissent in punished by imprisonment, torture and death."
The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, an umbrella organization for labor groups, joined the protest this month with a report detailing the Suharto Government's efforts to crush an independent union movement. The report accused the Government of "a flagrant breach of internationally recognized standards on freedom of association and the right to organize."
The spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Irawan Abidin, said in a telephone interview that criticism of Indonesia's human rights record reflected the views of only a "handful of people," and that the timing of the new reports was meant to embarrass Indonesia.
"I would say that we do have human rights in Indonesia," the spokesman said. "We are not perfect, but we are trying to improve."
He noted that the Government had recently allowed United Nations investigators to visit the disputed territory of East Timor. Indonesia's Foreign Minister, Ali Alatas, also opened negotiations this month with East Timor independence leaders.
The Clinton Administration has threatened to suspend $600 million in trade privileges unless the Indonesian Government ends its harassment of workers trying to organize in free unions.
Scores of Indonesian labor activists have been arrested and put on trial in recent months. While many have been charged with inciting violence, human rights groups say they are instead being detained for their efforts to organize workers.
Amnesty International said in its report that one of its investigators met in Indonesia with three men who said they had been tortured with electrical shocks last month after being arrested in Jakarta for releasing balloons bearing pro-democracy messages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (53%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); THAILAND (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES HUMAN RIGHTS (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TORTURE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (73%); WRITERS (72%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SUHARTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



570 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE CABINET;
Bearing Gifts, White House Hits Hot Spots For Election

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Hazel R. O'Leary, the Energy Secretary, said on Friday that the Clinton Administration will construct the most powerful laser on the planet near San Francisco, expanding the frontiers of science, injecting a huge wad of cash into the local economy and creating a raft of jobs. Officially, this has nothing to do with the national election taking place in 17 days.
Unofficially, this is a season in which Democrats need all the billion-dollar lasers they can lay their hands on. So when Ms. O'Leary announced the project at a ceremony in Livermore, Calif., her party's candidate for the area's Republican-held House seat, a businesswoman named Ellen Schwartz, was basking in the television lights at her side. 
 Ms. O'Leary is a surrogate -- an Administration celebrity supplementing the President's political rounds -- and a lucky one, too. In an era of big deficits and small budgets, few Cabinet officers have such largesse to bestow on the good citizens of the many battleground states and Congressional districts in this year's election.
But like the Republican Cabinet officers who preceded them, they are trying very hard anyway.
As Mr. Clinton campaigns through California and Washington this weekend, he will find not only Ms. O'Leary's tracks, but the trail of Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, who was in Seattle on Wednesday and San Francisco on Thursday. He could stumble across Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who was in San Francisco on Friday and is in Palm Springs today. He could even pick up the tracks of Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, who was in Fairfield, Calif., on Friday.
And if he were to hang around an extra day, he might bump into Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena, who is dropping by Seattle on Monday to campaign for a House Democrat.
"Our job is to go wherever the hell people want to see you at the last minute," said Mr. Babbitt's spokesman, Kevin Sweeney.
For the most part, such trips have two purposes. Uppermost is to raise money for the final pre-election push. The need is especially urgent in California and Virginia, where Republican Senate candidates have shattered all spending records.
The second purpose is to rouse the party's faithful -- the so-called Democratic base -- in a year when the party's prospects seem dismal enough to spur many loyalists to stay home on Election Day. An example: the re-election hopes of Senator Charles S. Robb, the Virginia Democrat, may rest on whether Virginia's overwhelmingly Democratic black vote turns out next month. So next week, two of the Administration's top black officers, Veterans Affairs Secretary Jesse Brown and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, will be in Virginia.
Not so long ago, Mr. Sweeney said, the Interior Department was a cornucopia of election-year dams, mineral leases, mining rights and grassland leases. But the salad days are over. "We don't have many gifts to give out," he said. "No dams. No dams."
Still, there remain a few ways that an Administration can remind voters how their tax dollars are at work and a few strategists who argue that if votes cannot be bought, they can at least be rented.
Tony Coelho, a former United States Representative and the Democratic Party's chief political adviser this fall, told reporters at a Washington breakfast last month that the re-election campaign of House Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington was in trouble because Mr. Foley had not given his constituents a reminder of the benefits a speaker can confer on his district. Asked whether he was suggesting that Mr. Foley bring his voters some political pork, Mr. Coelho hoisted his bushy eyebrows and replied, "Why not?"
Indeed, on the day that Mr. Foley returned to Spokane last week to campaign in earnest, he announced that the Justice Department had set aside enough money for the city under the first phase of the new crime legislation to hire 26 police officers -- more than Seattle or San Francisco or Pittsburgh will get under the bill.
The next day, Mr. Foley said the Pentagon had decided to shift 151 trainers from other locales to Spokane's Fairchild Air Force Base.
Mr. Foley argued that the Air Force move was not pork, but part of a long-planned consolidation that he said would save the Pentagon $15 million a year. "There is no way that saving money is pork," he told The Spokane Spokesman-Review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



571 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: FLORIDA;
The Political Scion vs. the Veteran Politician

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 21

 BODY:
"It's not working," Jeb Bush said one afternoon this week, as he cruised down I-75 in the motor home with the bedroom in the back and the work space in the front that he uses to tour Florida in his campaign for governor.
The "it" on Mr. Bush's mind toward the end of a campaign in which he stands an excellent chance of defeating Gov. Lawton Chiles is the state's government and society in general all wrapped into one. That is why Floridians are so unhappy, he explained. "I don't think people have sorted out why it's not working," he said, "but they know it's not working." 
 Tall and thin with an unruly black forelock, button-down collars and a wide, lopsided smile that make him unmistakably George Bush's son, Jeb Bush is preaching a hard-edged conservatism that goes far beyond what his father would have espoused even on his most fervent days.
He would require that all new state taxes, no matter how small, be approved by voter referendum.
He would force mothers and children off welfare after two years with no provision for job training or child-care beyond what is now available.
He would build space for thousands more prisoners, make sure that juveniles are punished more severely for crimes than they are now, remove from prisons some creature comforts like television sets and exercise rooms and execute more convicts who have committed serious crimes.
He would take money that now goes to public schools and give much of it to parents to help pay tuition to private schools.
This is a campaign, a platform, a style that has Governor Chiles on the ropes. Statewide public opinion polls this month have shown Mr. Bush, who has never held elective office, anywhere from 5 to 10 percentage points ahead.
It is not an insurmountable lead with almost three weeks to go before the Nov. 8 election. But it is a surprisingly solid one, given that Mr. Chiles, who is 64, has been in Florida politics for more than a generation -- 12 years in the State Legislature, 18 years in the United States Senate and now four years as Governor -- without ever losing an election.
Unusually gentle and modest as politicians go, Mr. Chiles has responded uncharacteristically to the Bush challenge. In his television advertisements and campaign speeches he has lashed out with personal attacks on his younger opponent that have often landed far off mark.
This week, for instance, Mr. Chiles accused Mr. Bush of a variety of supposedly improper tax and business deals that Mr. Bush was able to explain away easily. And the Governor said Mr. Bush had not bothered to vote in the 1992 election, an accusation Mr. Bush was able to refute by proving that he cast an absentee ballot.
In a debate at Walt Disney World on Tuesday morning and at a joint appearance in a rally at Lakeland on Wednesday night, Mr. Chiles seemed shrill and defensive, Mr. Bush calm and confident.
Over lunch at Reececliff Restaurant in Lakeland, Mr. Chiles's hometown, where he has gone for apple pie all his life, the Governor acknowledged that he was frustrated.
"I have never run against anyone in a statewide campaign who has no public record at all," he said. "He has a nice mama and a nice papa, but I don't know what he's done to be governor of Florida."
Much as his father moved from New England to Texas in 1948 to make his fortune in the oil business, so Jeb Bush moved from Texas to Miami in 1980. His in-laws lived there, he said, and it seemed like a good place to become involved in what he called entrepreneurial activities.
Within a few years, he had made millions as a real estate developer. The only public office Mr. Bush has held was Florida Secretary of Commerce, an appointed position in the Republican administration of Bob Martinez, Mr. Chiles's predecessor.
Mr. Chiles, by contrast, is a lifelong politician. The son of a railroad conductor, he was active in campus politics at the University of Florida, won a seat in the Legislature shortly after he graduated from law school and was elected to the United States Senate in 1970.
His victory in the Democratic primary that year was an astonishing upset, won after Mr. Chiles, short on cash and name recognition, campaigned by walking from one end of the state to the other. In the years that followed, countless politicians around the country tried to emulate Walkin' Lawton's technique, but few ever did it so successfully.
After 18 years in the Senate in which he rose to be chairman of the Budget Committee, Mr. Chiles decided not to run for re-election in 1988. He announced that he suffered from depression and was taking medication. But in 1990, his illness apparently under control, Mr. Chiles challenged Mr. Martinez and won the governorship handily.
In many respects, his race for governor paralleled Bill Clinton's campaign for the Presidency two years later. In the middle of a recession, Mr. Chiles called for change, for an end to politics as usual. On Election Night, he proclaimed that a new era of Camelot was upon the state.
But the Governor was damaged by some early slips, and the high expectations he brought to the office came crashing down.
He raised the salaries of top appointed officials, a move that generated so much political ire that he was forced to back down. He dismissed the able and popular Republican lottery secretary and replaced her with an inexperienced Democrat, leaving the impression with some Floridians that he was not a new kind of governor at all.
Finally, Mr. Chiles's tax reform plan, the centerpiece of his agenda and the political equivalent of President Clinton's health care proposal, was rejected by the Legislature.
Mr. Chiles is so affable, so charming face to face, that while his disapproval rating in the polls has soared above 60 percent, he remains personally popular. Because of that, Mr. Bush is careful to address him as "sir" and to avoid attacking him. "He served this state with dignity," Mr. Bush said at a rally in Gainesville this week. "His problem is that he actually believes government is the best means by which we can solve problems."
The Governor does believe that. He holds that the way to combat crime, the biggest worry expressed by Floridians, is not to build more prisons, as Mr. Bush proposes, but to see that pregnant women and infants get proper health care and that schoolchildren get better public education.
"It's not as sexy," he told the residents of a retirement home in Lakeland, "but it's a lot more efficient than prisons."
Mr. Chiles's problem is that his whole campaign is unsexy. He has no memorable slogan, no pointed message about the direction in which he would like to lead the state.
The population of Florida has doubled, to 14 million from 7 million, since he first won statewide office by walking across the state. The snowbirds who have moved here have caused Republican registration to quadruple in that time, to a point where there are almost as many Republicans as Democrats. Campaigns here have become like those in California, dominated by 30-second television advertisements.
Pressing the flesh, remembering names, exuding charm face to face, expressing country aphorisms -- Mr. Chiles's time-honored style -- may fall prey to Mr. Bush's well-financed, meticulously organized campaign and his finely honed conservative doctrine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeb Bush, the Republican candidate for governor of Florida, has mounted a strong campaign by promoting a conservative agenda that is farther to the right than that of his father, the former President. The younger Mr. Bush was greeted by supporters in Lakeland last week; Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, has spent 34 of his 64 years in Florida politics without losing an election. But this campaign is in trouble, with polls showing him trailing his opponent. Mr. Chiles listened to educators and parents at Dixieland Elementary school in Lakeland last week. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICS (87%); CHILDREN (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PRISONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TUITION FEES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BALLOTS (66%); CHILD CARE (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, JEB; CHILES, LAWTON (GOV); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



572 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Lurking Behind All Those Masks Are Managers Waiting to Happen

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Their equipment used to be popularly known as the tools of ignorance, but catchers obviously display no ignorance in their quest to become managers. Recent developments on the managerial employment line reinforced the belief that former catchers make better managers than players who played other positions.
Of the six managers who have been hired since the season ended prematurely, four were catchers in their playing days -- Bob Boone of Kansas City, Kevin Kennedy of Boston, Johnny Oates of Texas and Bruce Bochy of San Diego. Kennedy and Oates were available because they had been fired, but they were snatched for new jobs almost before the ink on their pinks slips was dry. 
 With all of the vacancies filled, 8 of the 28 managers are former catchers. Seven managers were outfielders and nine were infielders, but given the far greater number of outfielders and infielders, the ratio of catchers in managing jobs is remarkable.
Besides Boone, Kennedy, Oates and Bochy, the roster features Jim Leyland of Pittsburgh, Gene Lamont of the Chicago White Sox, Rene Lachemann of Florida and Joe Torre of St. Louis. Walt Jocketty, the Cardinals' new general manager, hasn't disclosed his decision on Torre's status, but he is expected to keep him in the job.
"The catcher is the manager's representative on the field for the game," said Dan Duquette, the Red Sox general manager, who grabbed Kennedy six days after the Rangers dismissed him. "The catcher is involved with every pitch, every pitcher, and he's the only player on the field who has the whole field in front of him. A catcher has to work with the manager, and a good catcher also will manage the pitchers to get the most out of them.
"For those reasons, you have to develop a good understanding of the game, and you're intimately involved in the decision-making to get 27 outs for your ball club and to get the most out of your pitching staff. It's also a position of leadership if done properly. You lead the defense while you're in the field."
Doug Melvin, the new general manager in Texas, brought Oates into the Baltimore organization as a minor league manager in 1988 and last week made him Kennedy's successor as the Rangers' manager.
"They probably study the whole game," Melvin said, speaking of catchers generally. "They're involved in the advanced reports because they need to know about the pitchers and the defense. They're more studious about the game. Through their careers, maybe they sat down by the manager and followed the game a little bit.
"If you watch when they come off the field, the manager usually says something to the catcher more than other people. What was that pitch, what did he throw in that situation? The catcher also goes to the mound, brings the infielders in and says this is what we're going to do. They've been put in a position to make sure things get done."
Melvin noted that in many instances, the former catchers were backup catchers and probably spent their time in the dugout studying what managers and other players did.
Kennedy and Leyland never made it to the major leagues and weren't even everyday catchers in the minors. Lamont, who was drafted ahead of Johnny Bench in 1965, and Lachemann each spent one entire season and bits of others in the majors, though not as starters. Bochy never caught more than 55 games in any of his his nine full or partial seasons. Oates caught as many as 91 games in a major league season only once. Torre and Boone were the exceptions.
Leyland, who never played above the Class AA level of the minors, said catchers have a better feel for what goes on in games than other players.
"Their concentration level is probably a little higher," said Leyland, who is generally considered the best manager working today. "You're so much more involved. It probably gives you a better focus and perspective of the overall game."
Boone caught 2,225 more major league games than Leyland and now starts out as a rookie manager.
Speaking from catching experience, he said, "You're getting a lot of simulated managing experience while you play. You have to relate to people on your pitching staff. You have to know the most important aspect of the game, which in my opinion is to deliver the right pitch in the right spot. That's probably the most important asset you need as a manager, teaching that aspect of the game.
"As a catcher, you learn a little bit of the mechanics of pitching. You're a troubleshooter as a catcher and that's what you are as a manager. That gives you the advantage of learning while you're on the job. As a catcher, you manage the game. I managed every game I played in. I just didn't have the control."
Oates said no one should be surprised at the evolution of catchers into managers.
"Catchers, if they want to manage, should have a big leg up on everyone else," the Rangers' new manager said. "When you go to spring training and the manager starts working on fundamentals, there's not one fundamental a catcher is not involved in": pitchers' working on curveballs in the bullpen, cutoffs and relays, calling pickoff plays, rundowns, the bunt defense.
"An outfielder might be out there catching fly balls," Oates said. "But the catcher is involved. He's involved in everything that goes on in the field."
Managing, though, is not for every catcher, Boone noted. "I've known a lot of dumb catchers," he said. "Just because you're a catcher doesn't mean you're going to make a good manager."
 
Alou Wins Without Bonds
 Upon learning he won the Baseball Writers Association award as National League manager of the year, Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos remarked, "I thought to be manager of the year, you had to manage Barry Bonds."
An astute observation, to be sure. In three of the previous four years, the N.L. manager of the year had Bonds on his team -- Jim Leyland in Pittsburgh in 1990 and '92 and Dusty Baker in San Francisco last year. Beyond that similarity, however, lay another: Bonds was the N.L. most valuable player each of those seasons.
He won't be this year, which makes it all right for Alou to be manager of the year.
 
Catchers at the Bat
 Syd Thrift, an underappreciated veteran baseball man, was talking about catchers, not as managers but as hitters. He was talking about his experiences with them in a visual training program he conducts to help players improve their concentration and their ability to pick up pitches quickly.
When they bat, Thrift said he asks catchers: "how come you don't apply the same principles and techniques you use when you pick up the ball from the pitcher's hand to be a better catcher? Even though you know what's coming, you have to be able to pick up the ball out of the pitcher's hands and track it. You have to know where a curveball is going. You have to be ready to block the ball if it's in the dirt. You can't be careless; you can't pull your head off the ball."
The fact is, Thrift said, catchers simply don't concentrate the same way when they bat. Fatigue from catching sets in, and they get careless.
Cut loose in a front-office change-over by the Chicago Cubs, where he had been assistant general manager the past three years, Thrift is available to lend his services in a variety of ways, particularly scouting, evaluating talent and conducting training programs others have never considered.
Anybody who was able to resuscitate the comatose Pirates and help save the franchise for Pittsburgh, as Thrift did in the late 80's, is too valuable to leave unemployed.
 
The New Mr. October?
 Sayeth Bud Selig, presiding over the void that has replaced World Series Week: "The long-term gain is worth the short-term pain."
The pain will persist, though, because Bill Usery Jr. doesn't figure to be able to duplicate the fall heroics of Joe Carter and Bill Mazeroski and Reggie Jackson and Carlton Fisk and Ron Swoboda and Don Larsen and Cookie Lavagetto. Even though Robert Reich, the Secretary of Labor, called him the "Mr. October of labor negotiations."
Neither side realistically expects the mediator to hit a grand slam in the last inning of the seventh game. If, on the other hand, he induces the owners to sacrifice their coveted cap to a serious effort to reach agreement with the players, he could be named the player of the month.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Boone, Kansas City's new manager, on being a catcher: "You're getting a lot of simulated managing experience while you play." (Barton Silverman/The New York Times, 1980); Johnny Oates, a Yankee in 1981 and now the Texas manager, said catchers should have a "leg up" on being managers. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); TEXAS RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%); TEXAS RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASEBALL (93%); DISMISSALS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



573 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Whining Toward the Throne

 BODY:
Britons are caught up in another fit of argument over why they should keep the monarchy. The American answer is simple. Of course, they should keep it -- for our amusement.
Listen, this is a fine show, not least from a journalistic point of view. In the United States, the pathological marriage of Prince Charles and Princess Diana is a tabloid television entertainment. In Britain, it is still largely a print story, and nothing brings out the deep-rooted obedience of establishment journalists more quickly than bad behavior toward or by the royal family. 
 The source of bad behavior toward the royals is the tabloid press whose sneaky photos and transcripts have raised the palace shades. In a cruel twist of fate, the tabloids' firebombing of the Windsors' facade of respectability has been abetted by the Sunday and daily Times of London. Monarchists believe that the papers' publisher, Rupert Murdoch, and a former Sunday Times editor, Andrew Neil, have done more damage to the crown than anyone save the children of Elizabeth II.
It was Mr. Murdoch's Sunday Times that published the Prince's caddish declaration that he never loved his wife and anyway his daddy frightened him into marrying her. Also, his mother was distant and the boys at his perfectly awful school picked on him. Today, The Sunday Times is expected to offer the Prince's authorized version of his affair with Camilla Parker Bowles.
Charles's grandiose self-pity masks his truly sad human situation. He is a reasonably intelligent, educated man captured in a not-too-bright family that has never been much for school. His profession is waiting for his mother to die.
All that, alas, is not enough to excuse the terrible hash he has made of things. In the days since his confessions, a band of God-save-the-Queen writers has been doing its best to invent arguments for preserving an institution that the tabs, the Prince and Mr. Murdoch seem bent on obliterating.
The daily Times obligingly gave William Rees-Mogg, a former Times editor and Thatcher Government censor, a platform for his salvage operation. Mr. Rees-Mogg rated all Princes of Wales on a scale of 1 to 100. Talk about grade inflation. The current Prince got a staggeringly generous seven for "personal responsibility" on the way to a total of 71. (George III got a 63 despite managing to lose the Colonies.) The Rees-Mogg verdict? Prince Charles is still fit to be king, but he really must stop bleating about his mum in public.
In the conservative Daily Telegraph, the former editor and Thatcher crony Bill Deedes had a clear solution for the "botch" Charles had made of his life. It was to wrest control of The Times from "an absentee landlord like Rupert Murdoch."
These are the yelps of old boys who prefer a dysfunctional nanny to none at all. Even The Economist, which endorsed sacking the Queen in theory, could not contemplate life without her. The royals really ought to go, The Economist concluded, but it was more important to reform other parts of the British Constitution first. Even then, "if the people wish," the monarchy could continue.
Such contortions may seem strange to a tradition-impoverished country like ours. But England did not survive the loss of empire without learning the virtue of smiling while institutions collapse. So it was left to The Independent, the newest of the quality dailies, to find the virtue in Charles's nuclear-strength whining. According to an Independent columnist, the I-never-loved-her-anyway defense showed that Charles was a modern heir who had figured out how to match Diana's public-relations wiles. By publicizing his anguish, "he has shown he can play Diana at her own game -- and win."
Yes, indeed, and with a few more such victories, Charles might slip to 70 on the Rees-Mogg scale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WALES (77%); 

COMPANY: SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WALES (77%); 

SUBJECT: ROYAL FAMILY; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (79%); MARRIAGE (77%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); MEN (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CENSORSHIP (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, PRINCE OF WALES; DIANA, PRINCESS OF WALES PRINCE CHARLES (89%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (87%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PRINCESS DIANA (71%); CAMILLA, DUCHESS OF CORNWALL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



574 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The Sell Curve

 BODY:
What if you yell "Fire!" in a crowded theater when the sprinkler system is already on?
This may be the only real philosophical question raised by "The Bell Curve," the book by Charles Murray and the late Richard Herrnstein that has monopolized magazine covers and inflamed pundits for two weeks. 
 Supposedly "The Bell Curve" is controversy incarnate. By offering an alarmist interpretation of the fact that blacks as a group score 15 points lower than whites in I.Q. tests, the book's authors are, in their words, bravely tackling "a taboo issue" or, as their critics have it, recklessly fanning the flames of racial division in a nation already at the brink.
But isn't it also possible that a publisher is simply hawking a book? The incendiary "science" in "The Bell Curve" is not new; its policy prescriptions are conservative boilerplate. Had the authors compared the I.Q. scores of men and women, that might have been a cry of "Fire!" in a societal tinderbox. As "The Bell Curve" stands, however, Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein might be more accurately charged with rehashing the work of others (and sometimes their own) for financial and political profit.
One of those others is William Shockley, a memorable nut who argued a quarter-century ago in favor of sterilizing those with low I.Q.'s. Shockley receives only one guarded paragraph in the 845 pages of "The Bell Curve." Yet his old pronouncements are everywhere.
Shockley attributed the lower income and higher crime rates of blacks to the same 15-point I.Q. test differential. He concluded that "a major cause of American Negroes' intellectual and social deficit is hereditary and racially genetic" and "not remediable to a major degree by practical improvement in environment." He bemoaned welfare for encouraging the procreation of the population's "least effective elements," black and white.
The more elegantly written "Bell Curve" has the same drift. Shockley bequeathed its authors their self-congratulatory tone as well: He boasted about raising "questions that are usually swept under the rug" as they do about breaking taboos. Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein also emulate Shockley by asserting expertise in academic disciplines (like genetics) outside their own and by protesting too much against those who might accuse them of making a fetish of race.
Since the "Bell Curve" authors cannot add to the science and pseudo-science they selectively cull from their primary sources, they update Shockley's politics for the 1990's (affirmative action should be abolished along with welfare) and tack on apocalyptic predictions of the sort found in best sellers heralding the next economic crash. "The Bell Curve" imagines a polarized, totalitarian Futureworld where the I.Q. elite will confine the dumb poor to a high-tech "Indian reservation." And how could this be prevented? Rather than provide answers requiring original thought, the authors fade off into a nostalgic paean to old-fashioned, self-governing neighborhoods.
Anyone looking for fresh, specific ideas about overhauling welfare -- and who isn't? -- will not find them in "The Bell Curve." Instead there is padding: enough equivocating disclaimers for another "Hamlet," and a mother lode of graphs designed to lend the book an air of unimpeachable authority, much as all those radar maps impart meteorological gravity to Willard Scott.
Even the authors concede their bell curves can be ignored. Lest they lose a single low-I.Q. customer, they announce in a revealingly caste-obsessed preface that their book is "only about 30 pages long" if read "at the simplest level," since there are italicized Cliffs Notes throughout. The graph-packed main text is "accessible to anyone who enjoys reading, for example, the science section of the news magazines," but the appendices that follow are suitable for only the very smartest -- no doubt the Asians who perform highest on I.Q. tests.
Such clever merchandising may make "The Bell Curve" the best-selling unread book since the last novel by Umberto Eco. Then again, Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein may have outsmarted themselves. A book that blames low I.Q.'s for what ails America may have tough sledding in a culture where even conservatives have been rushing to deify the 75 I.Q. of Forrest Gump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GENETICS AND HEREDITY WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CRIME RATES (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; MURRAY, CHARLES; HERRNSTEIN, RICHARD FRANK RICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



575 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: HOUSE;
For Congressional Candidates, Washington Is a Four-Letter Word

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

 BODY:
In this year of the anti-incumbent, almost any Washington connection beyond a trip with the kids to the Lincoln Memorial is being considered a potential weapon to be used against Congressional candidates.
The evidence is all around the New York region. Gary L. Ackerman of New York, after 11 years in Congress, says he isn't really an incumbent because redistricting has made him a new face for many of his constituents. A spokesman for Carolyn B. Maloney, a first-term Congresswoman from New York, defends his boss's honor by pointing out that she has been in Washington for barely 18 months. And amid charges and countercharges of experience inside the Beltway, Philip M. Schiliro, a Congressional hopeful from Long Island, is defending himself against attempts to make an issue of the fact that he recently lived in nearby Virginia. 
 With Republicans hoping for a record turnover in the House of Representatives, anti-incumbent fever has given rise to a surprising number of close races across the region. Congressional Democrats in traditionally safe seats, and even some newcomers, say they fear the taint of the "I" word.
Hamilton Fish Jr. is an adviser to a human rights group, producer of two Marcel Ophuls documentaries on the Holocaust, and former publisher of The Nation, the liberal opinion magazine. He has never held elected office. But as the son of a veteran Congressman with a different party but the same name, he wonders whether anti-incumbent sentiment will move some people to try and vote him out before he's even in.
"There's an anti-incumbent sentiment that may merge with the name-confusion factor and they may think they're voting against the incumbent if they vote against me," Mr. Fish said. He is a Democrat in a close race against Sue W. Kelly, a former hospital-patient advocate and Republican fund-raiser, for the Hudson Valley seat being vacated by his Republican father, who is retiring after 13 terms.
Mr. Fish quickly added that there are also plenty of voters who will see his family name as a powerful recommendation. Indeed, there has been a Hamilton Fish in Congress since the candidate's grandfather was elected in 1922.
But an unpopular President, a long and ultimately fruitless health care debate and a festering distrust of the political class have made experience in Washington less of an asset than ever. Even freshmen elected two years ago on a wave of discontent with politics as usual find themselves defending charges that they, too, are part of the problem in Washington.
And Marshall Miller, press secretary to Ms. Maloney, who is in a close race in the 14th District, which includes Manhattan's East Side, Astoria, Queens and Greenpoint, Brooklyn, insists that her opponent, City Councilman Charles Millard, is an incumbent, too.
"Anti-incumbency feeling is to the Congresswoman's detriment, of course," Mr. Miller said. "But he's also an incumbent of a kind."
 
New York: 4th District
In one of the stranger races in the New York area, the worst that is being murmured about Mr. Schiliro, a Democrat, is that he is "from Virginia." The Long Island native has in recent years worked in Washington for Representative Henry Waxman of California.
In this heavily Republican district, Mr. Schiliro's opponents happen to have far more serious problems to overcome. The incumbent Republican Congressman, David A. Levy, was defeated in a bitter primary rematch with former Assemblyman Daniel Frisa, who also ran on an anti-incumbent platform of discontent with high local taxes.
The only Republican incumbent in the country to lose in the first round, Mr. Levy contested the race, which he lost by just 54 votes, and is expected to draw at least 10 percent of the vote running on the Conservative line. Mr. Frisa, meanwhile, is off to what has generously been characterized as a slow start. Early last week, he could not be reached for comment because the only telephone number local Republicans had for him was answered by a malfunctioning message machine with a beep that wouldn't quit.
And in yet another creative attempt to turn anti-incumbent feeling to his advantage, Mr. Schiliro's campaign is claiming that even without Mr. Levy, the local Republicans are acting like incumbents.
"If you ask people what's wrong with Washington, they say nothing gets done because people argue and bicker too much," said Tom Lyons, Mr. Schiliro's press secretary. "The only way Republicans have distinguished themselves in this election is they can argue and bicker more than anyone else."
 
Connecticut: 2d District
Most of the anti-incumbent animus is, of course, aimed at the Democrats, who control Congress. The most intriguing Congressional race in Connecticut is a rematch of the 1992 squeaker in which the dean of the six-member delegation to Congress, Sam Gejdenson, barely held his seat against a challenge from a little-known former Republican State Senator, Edward W. Munster.
Last time out, Mr. Munster, a retired Pfizer Inc. statistician who once got a campaign worker to dress up like the television character Herman Munster to boost his name recognition, lost by only 3,875 of the 242,707 votes cast. Mr. Gejdenson, who is seeking his eighth term, seemed not to take Mr. Munster seriously then. But he is fighting back harder this time, with television commercials that portray his Washington savvy as reaping huge benefits for the district, which stretches out across the eastern portion of the state.
 
New York: 5th District
In this district, which includes slices of Queens, Nassau and Suffolk counties, Mr. Ackerman describes his Republican opponent, Grant M. Lally, a 32-year-old lawyer in his first political race, as "one of the young Republicans without any fingerprints."
"My opponent does live on Long Island," he said, "in a 14-room, seven-bath estate with his mother and father in Oyster Bay."
Mr. Lally's retort? His opponent not only has a couple of lovely homes himself, but is, yes, an incumbent. There, he said it. (He also said he lives alone. "I have my own place I rent from my folks on an adjacent property.")
The district is Democratic-leaning, but Republicans are hoping that Long Island voters will favor Mr. Lally over a six-term incumbent in a district redrawn two years ago, when Mr. Ackerman won with only 52 percent of the vote. But Mr. Ackerman, who is still likely to win over a political novice, is betting that the redistricting will actually protect him from the backlash against incumbents.
"My district is a newly created creature, so in 95 percent of it, I'm a first-term Congressman," he said. "It's not like I'm an old worn-out face."
 
New York: 26th District
Among the freshmen facing an uphill race is Representative Maurice D. Hinchey in a rematch against the Republican Bob Moppert in the 26th District, which stretches from the Catskills to Binghamton and north to Ithaca.
The lineup of national Republicans who have made campaign appearances with Mr. Moppert there includes Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the minority whip, Representative Susan Molinari of Staten Island and Representative Bill Paxon from the neighboring 27th District. Mr. Hinchey also has imported support, and has been joined on the stump by Vice President Al Gore, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt and Gloria Steinem.
Mr. Hinchey says the race will be decided on the intangibles of reliability and integrity; his opponent, a Binghamton moving-company owner who came within three percentage points of Mr. Hinchey in 1992, says the defining issue of the campaign is jobs and the economy.
Though Mr. Hinchey says his opponent has been so changed by consultants sent in from Washington that "he's scripted by D.C.," Mr. Moppert seems convincingly unspoiled by his new handlers: When asked to describe himself in a few words, for example, he included the adjective 'overweight.'
And when asked about anti-incumbent feeling, he said without hesitation: "That's what I'm counting on."
 
New York: 19th District
In the open seat being vacated by Hamilton Fish, both candidates say the main issue is jobs, with major employers like I.B.M. laying off thousands of workers and General Motors scheduled to close its assembly plant in North Tarrytown in 1996.
But Mrs. Kelly has also made an issue of her ties to her opponent's father, the Congressman, calling herself "the woman he called to open his first offices in Putnam and Westchester."
Of her opponent, she says: "I've known him since he was a kid. I've always called him Hammy, but people say that sounds derogatory so I don't know what to call him."
But both the Congressman and his son took exception to Mrs. Kelly's characterization of her relationship with their family, saying she did not meet Mr. Fish until he was a grown man, when she was on his father's payroll for a total of 45 days in 1972.
Mr. Fish also criticized Mrs. Kelly for a recent trip to Washington, where she signed the "Contract with America." The pledge -- much ridiculed by Democrats -- was taken on the Capitol steps by more than 300 Republican Congressional candidates who swore their commitment to tax cuts, increased military spending and a constitutional amendment to balance the budget.
"She ran ostensibly as an anti-politician" in the Republican primary, he said. "Then the first thing she did was run down to Washington and sign on with the clubhouse down there."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 23 about anti-incumbent sentiment in Congressional races in the New York region referred incorrectly to the Congressional service of members of the Hamilton Fish family. It has not been continuous since 1922; a Hamilton Fish was elected in 1920 and represented the Hudson Valley area until 1944, and his son, Hamilton Fish Jr., held the seat from 1969 until this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (52%); NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY; ; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); ; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); REDISTRICTING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (51%); 

PERSON: HENNENBERGER, MELINDA; MALONEY, CAROLYN B (REPR); SCHILIRO, PHILIP; GEJDENSON, SAM (REPR); ACKERMAN, GARY L (REPR); HINCHEY, MAURICE D (REPR); FISH, HAMILTON JR CAROLYN MALONEY (78%); GARY L ACKERMAN (72%); MAURICE D HINCHEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



576 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: What's on Your Mind, Kid?

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottlieb; Anthony Gottlieb is on the editorial staff of The Economist. He is writing a history of Western philosophy.

 BODY:

THE PHILOSOPHY OF CHILDHOOD
By Gareth B. Matthews.
136 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
$18.95. 
 AN old Jewish joke tells of a student who boasts to his grandmother that he has become a doctor of philosophy. "A doctor? Wonderful. But what kind of a disease is philosophy?" Wittgenstein would have liked that story; he thought of philosophy as something that needs to be treated and cured. Gareth B. Matthews, a professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, plainly does not share that depressed and depressing sentiment. But his work with children shows pretty conclusively what kind of a disease philosophy would be if it were a disease at all.
Adult philosophizing would be a form of arrested development. Between the ages of about 4 and 7, children commonly and naturally ask philosophical questions, Mr. Matthews writes, but it seems that "once children become well settled into school, they learn that only 'useful' questioning is expected of them. Philosophy then either goes underground, to be pursued privately, perhaps, and not shared with others, or else becomes totally dormant." In other words, grown-up philosophers are those whose curiosity has not been driven underground. So Plato was in a sense a Peter Pan.
Mr. Matthews's earlier books, "Philosophy and the Young Child" (1980) and "Dialogues With Children" (1984), recounted many charming conversations, classroom exercises and spontaneous questions from children, and so does his new one ("Mama, are we 'live' or are we on video?"). "The Philosophy of Childhood" begins with a wonderful philosophical dialogue with his daughter, then 4 years old, who was watching the de-fleaing of Fluffy, the family cat:
" 'Daddy . . . how did Fluffy get fleas?'
" 'Oh . . . she must have been playing with another cat; fleas must have jumped off the other cat onto Fluffy.' . . .
" 'How did that cat get fleas?' . . .
" 'Oh, it must have been playing with yet another cat . . . they must have jumped off that cat onto the one Fluffy later played with.' . . .
" 'But Daddy . . . it can't go on and on like that forever; the only thing that goes on and on like that forever is numbers!' "
It is, it seems, not only professors' children who talk like that if given the opportunity. And it is not merely by chance, not merely because children go through a stage of prefacing everything with "Why?" that they sometimes manage to hit philosophical bull's-eyes. Mr. Matthews's guided dialogues with children show that they consistently and happily develop philosophical trains of thought, evaluate those of others and try to think things through, often reaching solutions that are essentially the ones propounded by the big people who are lucky enough to be paid for doing it. Children are not, of course, as good at it as some grown-ups; Plato after all was not just a Peter Pan.
With careful listening and without distorting preconceptions about what children might or might not be capable of doing, Mr. Matthews has unearthed a seam of would-be wisdom. His open-minded attention to the way children's minds work has also yielded a new concept of childhood intelligence that may bear on the question of children's rights, children's art and the status of literature for children. He argues that the philosophy of childhood should be a respectable branch of philosophy, like the philosophy of science or the philosophy of law. This strikes me as too modest a goal. Mr. Matthews's incisive investigations into the relations between the world of children and the world of adults are too thought-provoking to be confined to one branch of one academic subject.
A THIRD of Mr. Matthews's book is an analysis of various theories of development. He subjects Jean Piaget's theory of cognitive development and Lawrence Kohlberg's theory of moral development to simple and searching criticisms that make his book essential reading for anybody interested in early childhood education. But his main concern is to argue against the "conventional view of childhood as a development through a sequence of roughly age-related stages that aims at maturity." Instead Mr. Matthews tends toward a theory that has fewer precise developmental hurdles marked on the calendar and that looks more for similarities than differences between adults and children.
This leads to the political question of children's rights, to the related issue of medical disclosure and to a discussion of children's literature. Sometimes Mr. Matthews goes a bit far. Though he is likely to make some people dig up a few children's books they might have missed long ago, he is less likely to persuade them that Arnold Lobel's "Frog and Toad Together" is a "philosophical classic." And though he brings new respect to children's art, I was skeptical of his suggestion that some work by young children should be in the permanent collections of major museums.
Still, most of Mr. Matthews's sweetly reasonable arguments turn out to be, like children's philosophical questions, both intriguing and unanswerable.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PHILOSOPHY OF CHILDHOOD, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); CHILDREN (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CATS (68%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, ANTHONY; MATTHEWS, GARETH B GARETH B MATTHEWS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



577 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: New Haven Has an Attitude, a New One

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN 

 BODY:
HELP! Bang! Bang! New Haven's Children Cry." The blast of graffiti, scrawled in brightly colored letters across the Church Street side of the former Malley's building, now boarded up, is an image hard to miss. Painted by graffiti artists in the last two years, it broadcasts the message to anyone visiting New Haven that the city is a precarious place to be.
But if anyone knows New Haven, particularly its urban neighborhoods, it is Sgt. Richard Randall who says the message conveys only part of the story. The head of a community policing substation on the corner of Edgewood and Day streets, the sergeant also patrols an area each day that includes both the wealthiest and poorest areas of the city. 
 "The fears people have about New Haven are not accurate," he said one recent afternoon while in his police car on the way to clear the front of an apartment building of loiterers. As he waved to residents along the way and pointed out the successes and disasters of city projects, Sergeant Randall talked about his hometown with grace, proclaiming its vitality, diversity and ability to contain all the contradictions of life.
He grew up in New Haven during the city's first major urban renewal program in the 1950's and 1960's. Three times his family was uprooted as entire neighborhoods were demolished under the city's slum clearance plan. But these days, he said, New Haven is in the initial stages of a renewal as much psychological as physical. "The city is always correcting itself," said Sergeant Randall, who is 42 years old. "We realize we can't live in a vacuum. We're all a part of the ecology of our community and we have to cure ourselves from within. And nowadays there's a lot of hope."
It appears that many people in New Haven share the police officer's sentiments. Apart from the most obvious signs of renewal -- like the refurbishing of a four-block area of 19th-century brick buildings in the downtown district, and the renovation of the shopping strip on Broadway -- residents and officials say that the fatalism that seemed so embedded in the city over the last few years has lifted, and a a perception is growing that the city is moving forward.
The new zeal comes after years of news reports highlighting the city's high taxes, strapped budgets, poor management and violent crime. Residents say that although severe problems remain, in recent months several developments indicate that New Haven is regaining its footing. In addition to a spate of new construction projects, residents point to the explosion of interest in the city's art and music scene and the infusion of ambitious new immigrants, which has boosted the city's cosmopolitan appeal.
Indeed, parts of New Haven appears positively vibrant with ethnic restaurants, boutiques, outdoor cafes and bookstores. On Elm Street, a few blocks from Sergeant Randall's substation, the Daily Caffe (one of several coffeehouses that have opened in the last few years) holds poetry readings and art exhibits that attract a crowd of devoted patrons, many wearing the latest in grunge, crunch or bohemian black. Amid the din of espresso machines and Pearl Jam, one of the owners, Steve Shapiro, said, "Lately, there's a sense that New Haven is starting to go in the right direction. Unlike a few years ago when all anyone did was talk about what's wrong with the place, people are now saying what's right about it."
Laura Guada Ouelette is a 29-year-old artist who frequents the Daily Caffe and recently had an exhibit there of her paintings, which she described as post-modern realism. With its cultural and career opportunities, the city remains a magnet for young people from all over the state, said Ms. Ouelette, who moved to New Haven from Berlin six years ago. "New Haven always gets a bad rap and I have to admit I was afraid to move here," she said. "But it's the best place in the state to live if you're an artist. There's a very rich intellectual life. It's a great alternative to living in New York City."
Panzie Hixson, 39 years old, works behind the cafe's coffee bar. An actress and jazz singer, she said she experienced firsthand the rise and decline of the city's art community during the 1980's when the alternative theater production company she worked in lost its financial support and had to close. "After all the money dried up, people started to panic," said Ms. Hixson, who was raised in the city. "The mood was, 'New Haven isn't a cool place to be.' "
But over the last three years, she said, that feeling has begun to change. The opening of several nightclubs that support and promote local musicians has sparked an explosion of homegrown bands.
Ms. Hixson, who sings on weekends at Cafe Nine, a new rhythm and blues club on State Street, adds that the business support is important -- but so is the new notion that to survive as an artist you have to do it on your own. "Artists have had to become more self-reliant," she said. "And the city provides an atmosphere where that's possible."
Residents said that the city's ethnic and racial diversity was also giving it new vitality by reshaping the cultural life and propelling the local economy. Romulo Torres from Quito, Ecuador, and Mizael Mendez from Escuintla, Guatemala, work as carpenters for a Puerto Rican contractor who renovates houses in low-income neighborhoods. The two men say they have never been without work since arriving in New Haven.
"In New Haven, I've met people from all over the Spanish world," said Mr. Mendez, 31 years old, who arrived in the city a year ago, "Something I could never do if I stayed in Guatemala."
The two share an apartment in Fair Haven with another Ecuadoran man and they often socialize in clubs offering Latin music. Mr. Torres, 29 years old, came to New Haven four years ago and studies English at Gateway Community College. Both men dream of returning to their native countries -- but add that the pull of New Haven is hard to resist. "Who knows?" Mr. Mendez said. "Maybe I can start my own business."
Despite the surge of optimism the city is far from a full recovery. A recent announcement by the Southern New England Telephone Company that it would close its George Street building and move its 1,135 employees to other city offices was a major blow to efforts to restore the downtown district. The move could also have a devastating impact on nearby businesses, where merchants say they rely on the employees for up to 50 percent of their sales.
The crime rate also continues to fuel the city's poor image. Earlier this summer the city was stunned after a patron at a downtown coffeehouse took out a knife and stabbed seven people. New Haven received national press attention last month after a 15-year-old girl and an 18-year-old boy were slain when a gunman fired several shots into their car on Sherman Avenue.
Last week two teenagers were shot dead in separate incidents, bringing the murder rate thus far this year to 22. A year ago at this time, the city had had 16 murders, and 1993's total came to 22. In addition, The New Haven Register recently ran a front page profile of Victoria Pastore, the 76-year-old mother of New Haven Police Chief Nicholas Pastore, who told reporters she was afraid to leave her apartment on Derby Avenue because of the amount of drug trafficking in her neighborhood.
Still, Mayor John DeStephano Jr. often talks about the resilience of the community, and how its future is critical to the economic health of the entire region. In a recent interview in his office in the newly refurbished city hall, he said he was tired of the television and radio pundits who insist that the cities are beyond saving, adding, "In a lot of ways the cities are the better part of our nature. And, like most central cities, New Haven remains the center of commerce, art and education."
He downplayed construction projects and instead emphasized efforts by the city and Yale University to help poor neighborhoods, including a project scheduled to begin next fall that would create centers offering child care, health care, adult education, employment training and recreation seven days a week. The program is being developed by Edward F. Zigler and the staff of the Yale Child Study Center and the Bush Center in Child Development and Social Policy at Yale.
The Mayor also stressed recent plans to revitalize blighted buildings and offer about a third of the 700 abandoned buildings the city owns for private ownership.
But Mr. DeStephano and other city officials said one of the most daunting tasks has been to convince nearby towns to help the city regain its health. Many business and government leaders in New Haven tout the message of David Rusk -- an urban planner and author of "Cities Without Suburbs" (Woodrow Wilson Center, 1993) -- who says that the most successful cities in the country have succeeded in large part because they help maintain a metropolitan government enabling them to share resources with suburban towns.
The more isolated the suburban towns remain from their core city, he says, the more the entire region suffers economically and socially. Mr. Rusk, a former Mayor of Albuquerque, cited New Haven, Bridgeport and Hartford as cities that have declined because they have lost the ability to expand, due in part to state laws and the indifference of neighboring towns.
The president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, Matthew Nemerson, said convincing suburban residents to think of the region as one big city has not been easy, but that more people are beginning to accept interdependence.
"Throughout the country the suburbs are the strongest where the inner city is the strongest," Mr. Nemerson said. "Unless the core city is strong, you cannot expect the suburbs to survive and grow."
Mr. Nemerson and other business leaders in New Haven said they would like to see New Haven and the surrounding towns begin to share some municipal services such as public works, public safety and sanitation, which would be managed by a council made up of the mayors and first selectmen of the region. Doing so, Mr. Nemerson said, would benefit everyone. "A regional plan doesn't mean New Haven is going to take over," he said. "The city holds only 23 percent of the population in the region and only a third of the job base. The suburbs are clearly the dominant culture."
Dr. Christopher Doob, an urban sociologist and professor at Southern Connecticut State University, said if the suburban towns continue to isolate New Haven, it will reinforce racial and economic segregation and force the city to rely more and more on Federal and state aid. In the long run, he added, it would inhibit the whole area from responding to economic challenges. "It's clear that cities like New Haven are at the crossroads," he said. "And the next couple of decades are critical."
Sergeant Randall said he would continue to revitalize the city from within. It's a job that requires patience and versatility. One day he might supervise neighborhood children who visit his substation to use the library there that is sponsored by St. Raphael's Hospital. On another day, he will meet with landlords anxious to clear the front of their buildings of prostitutes and drug addicts. ("If you didn't rent to them, they wouldn't be there," he tells them.)
On a recent day, he sat outside a crack house on Winthrop Avenue and watched a drug dealer who has been arrested many times. "The court system has got to change," he said. Later, he responded to complaints that a boy was shooting a BB gun from a window. He found the child and returned him to his mother. Back at the substation, he scanned a fax sent to him by a resident who wanted an abandoned car removed from his neighborhood. A few minutes later he was off again. As he drove along Day Street, he thought a moment about the graffiti on the side of the former Malley's building, then said, "The key is people pulling together. We all have to try to keep New Haven's children from crying."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pleased with his town's lighter mood, Sgt. Richard Randall stops in at Tony Goraibb's store. (Pg. 1); On patrol, Sgt. Richard Randall meets a former classmate, Raymond Williams. (Pg. 8) (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); GRAFFITI (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CITIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (68%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI; RANDALL, RICHARD (POLICE SGT) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



578 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Job Performance Belies Disability Myths

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

DATELINE: RYE BROOK

 BODY:
DISPELLING myths is a good way to celebrate National Disability Employment Awareness Month.
At a recent breakfast reception, sponsored by Arrowwood Conference Centers, the job performance of those who received the 1994 Westchester Achievement Awards showed that given employment opportunities, people with disabilities are eager to become a valuable part of the work force. 
 As for the myths, they are barriers that interfere with giving people with disabilities a chance to work. To wit:
Myth: Employees with disabilities have a higher rate of absenteeism and tardiness than other employees.
Fact: "Not true. If anything, my employees who are 'developmentally challenged' are so glad to work that they are almost never absent. And they come in early and would stay late if we would let them." Those are the words of Jonathan White, a former engineer who started the Egg Farm Dairy in Peekskill last April. It produces high-quality butter, clabbered cream and handmade cheeses. "Our products have already won first and second prizes in the 1994 American Cheese Society competition," Mr. White said. "The methods we use are old-fashioned, they go back 100 years. Most of the handwork, molding the cheeses and filling butter molds, is monotonous and repetitious. I got in touch with a training center, and they set up interviews with people in a sheltered workshop, and we hired and trained three of them. I'd say they are better workers than anyone else. They are absolutely committed to the job and take great pride in their work."
Myth: People with disabilities are unable to become self-employed.
Fact: "Two years ago, I had a hiking accident, which left me a quadraplegic," said Serge Ciampa, who lives in Hastings-on-Hudson. "Before the accident, I had a successful business designing, manufacturing and installing refrigerator systems for private and commercial yachts. Now except for limited arm movement, I have no function below my neck. I'm in a wheelchair, and I lost the use of my hands. The thought of being self-employed and productive again seemed impossible. But then I was referred to Vesid."
Vesid, is the acronym for the New York State Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals with Disabilities, sent Mr. Ciampa to Choice Center, a training facility in New Rochelle.
"At the Choice Center I was put into a computer multimedia and desktop training program," he said. "Now I'm able to type using a splint, which is fastened to the palm of my hand. With the multimedia technology, I can use my Apple MacIntosh computer to produce text, high-quality color graphics and designs with sound tracks for reports, presentations and proposals. With it, I'm able to create simulations, prototypes and interactive animation for engineering and scientific visualization."
Mr. Ciampa is now a successful entrepreneur, running a profitable business. "Not only do I have my old customers back, but I have new ones," he said. "With my new skills, I am providing sales and technical support to boat builders, charter fleets, marinas and boat yards. I'm also able to do layout design on new equipment installations. I work with Ocean Air, a marine refrigeration and air-conditioning contractor in Mamaroneck. I receive a percentage of the total job."
Mr. Ciampa is also creating an animated instructional presentation, which incorporates technical writing, to produce how-to videos on installing electrical refrigeration and air-conditioning systems for his marine customers. "This will help me market and sell equipment directly to the consumer," he said.
Vesid serves people with a broad range of disabilities, said Gina Wander, a Vesid job-placement specialist in White Plains. "A variety of services, including vocational evaluation and counseling, are available to disabled people so they can meet the labor needs of employers," Ms. Wander said.
Brian Mazzitelli, the manager of the Lord & Taylor restaurant in Eastchester, said he employs two disabled workers. "I wish I had more of them," he said. "They are marvelous. A pleasure to work with."
Chris Stelzl, the manager of the Radio Shack store in the Cross County Shopping Center in Yonkers, agrees. "For six years we think we have been fortunate to have Arthur Steisfeld, who is in his late 40's, working for us," Mr. Stelzl said. "Not only is he an excellent employee but the amount of work he does is just amazing. He works in the stock room, helps with shipping and repairs. A few weeks ago, unfortunately, he was hit by a car and he has been laid up for a time, but the point I'm making is that we had to hire two people to replace him."
People with disabilities represent a valuable resource for meeting workplace needs, said a speaker at the breakfast, Richard Drucker of the State Office of Economic Development. "We want to see people with disabilities employed in an integrated setting," Mr. Drucker said. "This can be done by employers, and it is the right thing to do. All across the state, employers have found that disabled people have the skills and the ability to become productive and dedicated employees."
Maureen McLaughlin, training supervisor for Food Emporium, said that in her experience, "Once one of our managers in our stores is convinced to take a chance and hire either a physically or mentally handicapped individual, they quickly ask me for more disabled people to work in their store. Disabled workers have proven to be so loyal, so enthusiastic and so dedicated to their jobs that they make the manager's life easier. Especially in our industry, where people jump ship so often the turnover is very high.
"By contrast, employees with disabilities really appreciate being given a chance and are totally committed to their jobs."
Jim Morra, who was hired by Mr. White to work at the Egg Farm Dairy, has been on the job for five months. For Mr. Morra, who is 33, this is his first job outside a sheltered workshop. "I pack butter and cheese, and the job is very good," Mr. Morra said. "I like it much better than the workshop. It's a good feeling to be earning money and being independent."
Through her job as manager of development at Kraft General Foods, Elizabeth Aldworth, who is legally blind, has been able to help others who are blind. With the encouragement of Gus Garcia, a Kraft manager, Ms. Aldworth has taken on a big project. She has translated the directions for Kraft puddings and gelatin desserts into Braille.
"It was a huge job," Mr. Garcia said, "but clearly an important accomplishment."
The yearly award event in which both employers and disabled employees received awards, was sponsored by the County Office for the Disabled, the Rehabilitation Network and Vesid to recognize the accomplishments of both Westchester employers and their employees, said Richard Manley, director of the Office for the Disabled in Westchester.
"Our goal is to provide more employment opportunities for qualified people with disabilities," Mr. Manley said. "We work with many nonprofit vocational-rehabilitation organizations who train disabled individuals so they can meet the labor needs of employers. Employers who are seeking help will be helped by trained counselors who will find them the right employee and provide supportive and follow-up services. Just give us a try."
For more information on programs for the disabled call the Office for the Disabled at 285-2957 or the Vesid placement unit at 946-1313.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan White, above right, a former engineer who started the Egg Farm Dairy in Peekskill, has hired three handicapped workers. With him is Jim Moora, wrapping sticks of butter. Below, Renee Pimienta assists with the butter. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (50%); CHOICE CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHOICE CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HANDICAPPED; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS DISABLED PERSONS (91%); DISABLED WORKERS (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CHEESE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ENGINEERING (88%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); PARALYSIS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); ANIMATION (60%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY SERGE CIAMPA (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



579 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Just 1 Fight Stands Out Among 4 State Senate Races

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

 BODY:
WHEN voters in the county head to the polls on Election Day, only about a fourth of them will have a choice between major party candidates for the State Senate. Three of four candidates -- all incumbents -- are running virtually unopposed. The only real race is in the 37th District, where the Democratic candidate, Alfred B. DelBello, is vying with the Republican nominee, Vincent L. Leibell 3d, for the seat abandoned by George E. Pataki in his pursuit of the statehouse.
The lack of choice offered the vast majority of voters this year is seen by some as a reflection of a campaign finance system that gives an overwhelming advantage to incumbent legislators and discourages challengers. Incumbents enjoy perquisites like legislative mailings, large staffs wanting to keep their jobs and statewide political committees that provide financial support. 
 "There is such a bias toward incumbents that it's hard to counteract," said Amy Paulin, president of the League of Women Voters of Westchester. "Money is the key factor. It's something that campaign-finance reform would go a long way to change, but right now it's very disappointing because without two viable candidates, people become more disenchanted, more discouraged, and they think their vote isn't worth anything."
In the 35th District, Democrats put up no one against Nicholas A. Spano, Republican of Yonkers. The Right to Life candidate is Peter J. Toner. In the 34th District, Guy J. Velella, Republican of the Bronx, chairman of the Senate Republican Campaign Committee, is running on both the Republican and Democratic lines, with Thomas Byrne running on the Right to Life line. With the exception of a Right to Life candidate, Paul McEvoy, the Democrat Suzi Oppenheimer is also running unopposed in the 36th District, which she has represented since 1984.
The race between Mr. DelBello and Mr. Leibell in the 37th District is providing a choice between two very different candidates (The Right to Life Party is running Adele M. Sarlitto). The district encompasses three counties, beginning in northern Westchester and including New Castle, Mount Kisco, Bedford, Cortlandt, Lewisboro, North Salem, Peekskill, Pound Ridge, Somers and Yorktown. It also incorporates all of Putnam County and runs up the corridor of Route 22, through Dutchess County to the Massachusetts state line.
But 60 percent of the roughly 300,000 people in the district live in Westchester, a fact Mr. DelBello is banking on. (An additional 30 percent of the voters are in Putnam; the other 10 percent in Dutchess.) Mr. DelBello's name is familiar to many Westchester residents because he served as County Executive from 1973 to 1982. His name also has statewide recognition from his stint as Lieutenant Governor.
Mr. Leibell, however, has strong ties in Putnam County, which he has represented in the State Assembly for 12 years. Voter registration figures give him a powerful edge -- there are 15,000 more Republicans than Democrats in the district.
If Mr. Leibell is elected, he will join a tightly controlled Republican majority in the Senate. Mr. DelBello said that there is only a five-vote difference between the two parties, and that if elected he could join the reform-oriented Democratic minority as a voice for change.
The two candidates see the key issues in the race differently. Mr. Leibell said the No. 1 issue concerning his constituents is crime. He said he would introduce legislation similar to "Megan's Law," a bill proposed in the New Jersey State Legislature to require notifying communities of a convicted child molester moving in. Mr. Leibell also said he believed the work-release program from prisons was a failure. He said he was concerned about domestic violence and rape.
Mr. Leibell said he viewed abortion as a decision "between a woman and her doctor" but did not support Medicaid's abortion payments because no provisions were made for tracking women to offer counseling.
"If a woman comes in and has 10 state-financed abortions, and there's no counseling out there, she's going to have all sorts of emotional problems, and I feel that's my responsibility," he said.
Mr. Leibell also voted against a state assault-weapons ban, because, he said, he believed it was a Federal issue and that the New York bill was too broad in its definition of the guns to be banned.
Mr. DelBello said several local issues are driving the race -- primarily the matter of the New York City watershed and reform of the way schools are financed. On the watershed, he said a balance is needed between the environmental community, which wants to keep the water supply pristine, and developers and chambers of commerce, which believe that complying with city regulations stifles economic growth. The controversy, Mr. DelBello said, reflects a lack of a regional plan. He said the regulations should be clarified but not softened, and should be administered locally.
On education, Mr. DelBello said the state lacked vision and has lost sight of putting a priority on academic achievement. Not only is the state education bureaucracy too large, he said, but also too involved with the management of local schools.
He proposed a two-part solution for school aid: an academic component and a component for programs mandated by the state. The state, he said, should pay 100 percent of its mandated social programs, while the academic component should be shared by local and state government. He added that school aid is currently based on a political formula, not on need.
Mr. DelBello supports Medicaid payments for abortion and favors a state ban on assault weapons.
Both candidates discussed the need to open up what has been referred to as "the secret chamber" -- clandestine budgets and closed conferences.
Mr. Leibell said he believed legislative conferences should be open to the public, acknowledging that "debate has shifted away from the floor and into conference." He added: "When you come out, there's not a lot left to see. It's unconscionable that every dollar of public money is not accounted for."
Mr. DelBello questioned Mr. Leibell's willingness to buck his own party's leadership in the Senate, a party that has been well served by the current system. He said that abuses of power and the influences of special interests have rendered the Legislature incapable of addressing New York's economic decline.
"The public has lost all confidence in the New York State Legislature, and I can't blame them," Mr. DelBello said. He proposed establishing a bipartisan commission to investigate chronic abuses and develop a code of ethics for legislators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (91%); LIFE PARTY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (91%); LIFE PARTY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, KATE STONE; DELBELLO, ALFRED B; LEIBELL, VINCENT L 3D (ASSEMBLYMAN); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); SPANO, NICHOLAS A (SEN); VELELLA, GUY J (SEN); OPPENHEIMER, SUZI (SEN) VINCENT L LEIBELL (93%); ALFRED B DELBELLO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



580 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: The Los Angeles Resale Market Makes a Comeback

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
ALAN MESCON, a retired teacher in the San Fernando Valley area of this city, felt anxious last month when he considered putting his late mother's house up for sale. The market for resale houses here had been notoriously weak for nearly four years.
"I had heard all kinds of stories about the market being so terrible that it would take five or six months to sell the house," he said. 
 But his fears turned out to be misplaced. His broker showed the two-bedroom, one-bath house to other sales agents on a Friday in September. By the following Monday Mr. Mescon had received two offers, each with checks for earnest money. He agreed to sell the 1,300-square-foot house for $210,000, very close to the $214,000 asked. By Tuesday, he said, the deal was "nailed down cold."
He said he was satisfied with the price, even though some real estate people had told him he could have gotten more. "It was a fair price," he said, "not a fire sale."
Sales are rising in Los Angeles, with sellers apparently more willing to resign themselves to lower prices from those of a few years ago. The pick-up in sales along with declining prices is a familiar situation in the early stages of turnarounds.
At the end of September, sales were up 13.8 percent for the year that started Oct. 1, 1993, while the median price of an existing home fell 2.8 percent, to $175,000, said TRW Redi Property Data, a real estate research firm based in Riverside, Calif.
At the peak of the market, in the summer of 1989, the median price was $225,600. But only five years earlier the median price was $116,700.
One local residential brokerage, Prudential California Realty of Beverly Hills, says its sales have risen 30 to 40 percent above last year's levels and prices in deals they have brokered have fallen 5 to 15 percent, depending on location, according to Rick Merrill, the agency's chief operating officer.
The quantity of houses available for sale is falling sharply in almost all locations, including the high-priced oceanfront Ocean Park district of Santa Monica. "I had 17 to 20 listings last year and now I am down to 6," said Alison St. Onge, a sales associate at Fred Sands Realtors. "I have never been this low. But homes are selling, so I am not complaining."
Resale activity has picked up steam elsewhere in the country as well. In the combined area of Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island and the borough of Queens in New York City, sales of existing one-family homes increased by about 20 percent from August 1993 to last August, according to the Long Island Board of Realtors. Over the same period sales were up 12 percent in Chicago and 3.3 percent in Houston.
But in Greater Los Angeles prices fell about 2.8 percent from August, 1993, to last August, whereas elsewhere resale prices are holding steady or climbing, suggesting a more advanced state of recovery. In the Nassau-Suffolk-Queens area, for example, the median resale price in August remained at $165,000, the same as a year earlier, while in Chicago the median price rose 12 percent, to $154,393. In Houston it rose 0.2 percent, to $81,000.
THE phenomenon of falling prices and rising sales largely reflects the fact that sellers who had held their houses off the market are now putting them up for sale, according to Cynthia Kroll, a regional economist for the Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University of California at Berkeley. They are willing to take a more realistic view of prices, she said, and the houses are moving.
The sales market had stopped cold after its surge in the mid- to late 80's in the area. Michael Edlen, an associate broker in the Pacific Palisades office of Prudential California Realty, recalled a period when prices were rising at about 2 percent a month. By the time the market had peaked in early 1989, asking prices were out of reach of even comparatively affluent households.
"Prices were really out of whack," said Stephanie Vitacco, associate broker in the San Fernando Valley office of Fred Sands Realtors. "In 1989 a young married couple with two incomes could barely afford a condominium."
Now, she said, "the same couple can afford a single-family house."
Among the couples benefiting from the recent fall in prices are Nick and Terah Tidy, who recently bought a house that had been foreclosed by a bank in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles for about $440,000. Although far above the Greater Los Angeles median price of $180,000, the price is considered entry-level for the exclusive Palisades district.
The Tidys -- he owns a graphics business -- and their 3-year-old daughter were displaced by the Jan. 17 earthquake when their house in Santa Monica was deemed uninhabitable and they lived in a hotel while looking for a new one.
"We couldn't find a house in Santa Monica, where we wanted to stay, because homes were out of our price range or they needed too much work," said Mr. Tidy. "So we looked in the Palisades, where it was very possible for us to buy, because the prices had gone down."
Sales activity is being enhanced by a Federal Housing Administration program that gives earthquake victims no-money-down home loans, according to the San Fernando Valley Association of Realtors.
The association said that sales to first-time buyers commanded 44 percent of the resale market in San Fernando Valley last August, with the busiest price category being in the $140,000-to-$160,000 range. Ms. Vitacco, the sales agent, also reported strong activity in high-end homes of $800,000 and more, although the range of $300,000 to $600,000 was less robust.
Citywide, sales seem brisk in all price categories, according to Mr. Merrill of Prudential California. "The slowest category to improve is the 'upper-upper' market of $5 million or more," he said. "Other than that, all segments of the market are vastly improved over the prior year."
Despite the activity, Mr. Merrill said he was not confident that prices would soon recover. The problem, he said, was an overabundance of bank-owned homes that are being sold at discount prices, indicating that there will be "downward pressure on prices for the time being."
One possible exception is the Santa Monica beachfront, where prices start around $400,000. Ms. St. Onge of Fred Sands Realtors believes they will soon rise in value.
"My neighborhood attracts a lot of people in the motion picture industry -- creative, talented people who are trying to find what they want and are not nearly as concerned about what it costs," she said.
Ms. Vitacco, also of Fred Sands, was ambivalent about a continued flatness in home prices. As a sales person, she has benefited from the low prices, which have brought out the buyers. "I'm selling more homes than I have ever done in my seven-year career," she said.
But as a homeowner who bought her house at top of the market in 1989, Ms. Vitacco said she would like to see her own home regain some of its lost value. "Personally, I understand the meaning of depreciation," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick and Terah Tidy with their daughter, Scarlette, at their new house in Pacific Palisades. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL CALIFORNIA REALTY (53%); FRED SANDS REALTORS CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MORRIS ALAN MESCON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



581 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Sao Paulo

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH HEILMAN BROOKE; ELIZABETH HEILMAN BROOKE lives in Rio de Janeiro and writes occasionally for The Times.

 BODY:
Sao Paulo, South America's most important business center and the world's third most populous city, has quietly displaced Rio de Janeiro as Brazil's main port of entry. While Rio lost its last direct flights to New York this past summer, Sao Paulo has seen its schedule of direct flights to New York expand to 23 a week. This energetic, if gray, metropolis is now the air hub for business and vacation travel throughout Brazil.
The capital of a state with an economy the size of Argentina's, Sao Paulo is home to 17 million people and headquarters for most of Brazil's banks and leading corporations. In a change from Rio, visitors to Sao Paulo typically have more cause to don a business suit than a bathing suit, but as in Rio they should be cautious when walking the streets. With Brazil's economy rapidly opening to foreign investment and trade, more and more of the visitors filling hotels here are Americans. 
 Long a magnet for immigrants from Germany, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Portugal and Spain, Sao Paulo exhibits a surprising ethnic richness and has some of Brazil's finest restaurants. And as a center for art, music, dance and sports, the city increasingly rivals Rio, Brazil's traditional cultural capital.
Sao Paulo will get a new link with Rio next month when the refurbished luxury Silver Train begins making the overnight trip 300 miles up the coast. To be inaugurated Nov. 18, the train will offer a leisurely alternative to the Ponte Aerea, or "Air Bridge," a shuttle that connects Brazil's two largest cities. The train will depart from Estacao da Barra Funda at Rua Mario at 8:30 P.M. several days a week and arrive in Rio at 6 A.M.. Departures from Sao Paulo will be Monday, Wednesday, Friday; from Rio, Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. The fare is yet to be determined.
 
Events
 Since 1951, Sao Paulo has been host to the Sao Paulo Bienal, which presents an opportunity to view the latest in Latin American art, as well as work by artists from all over the world. The 22d Bienal opened Oct. 12 and closes Dec. 11. Piet Mondrian, Diego Rivera, Kasimir Malevich, Robert Rauschenberg and Julian Schnabel are among the more than 200 artists from 70 countries whose works are on display in the three-mile gallery space designed by Oscar Niemeyer in Ibirapuera Park. The exhibit is open Tuesday to Friday, 2 to 9 P.M.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. Admission is $4.60, calculated at the rate of .87 reals to the dollar.
One of Brazil's most important art collections, the Sao Paulo Art Museum, 1578 Avenida Paulista, 251-5644, is within walking distance of some of the city's best hotels. Paintings by Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Picasso and Goya are among the museum's treasures, and temporary exhibits of Brazilian artists and private collections provide additional incentive to explore this homely concrete art museum. Until Dec. 18, the second-floor gallery is showing 350 works of foreign artists, including Georg Heinrich von Langsdorff, Albert Eckhout and Jean-Baptiste Debret, who painted scenes of Brazil while traveling through the country from the 1500's through the 1800's. On Sundays, an antiques fair takes place outside the museum. Open Tuesday to Friday, 1 to 5 P.M.; weekends, 2 to 6 P.M.; $2.30, except Thursday, when admission is free.
The Theater of Artistic Culture, 196 Rua Nestor Pestana, 258-3616, is a venue for musical performances. (The country code for Brazil is 55, the city code for Sao Paulo is 11.) Shows start at 9 P.M. Concerts are scheduled on Monday, Tuesday and/ or Wednesday, plays on weekends. The New World Symphony, conducted by Michael Tilson Thomas, will perform works by Beethoven, Brahms, Mozart and the Brazilian composer Heitor Villa-Lobos Nov. 13 and 14. Tickets are $46 to $115.
 
Sightseeing
 Avenida Paulista is worth a stroll. Once an elegant residential row for Brazil's most powerful industrialists and coffee barons, the 1.4-mile-long boulevard still displays architectural vestiges of its neoclassical past. While chrome and glass have generally replaced gracious columns and balustrades, a few turn-of-the-century houses have been preserved. There is even an unexpected McDonald's in a restored house at 709 Avenida Paulista. The recently restored Casa das Rosas, 37 Avenida Paulista, 251-5271, is now used as an exhibition space, with small exhibits on loan from museums and collections throughout Brazil. Tuesday to Friday, 1 to 7 P.M.; Saturday and Sunday, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; free.
A patch of Atlantic rain forest, the Trianon Park, at 949 Rua Peixoto Gomide, is just off the avenue. Here, marmosets can be seen clinging to trees around the park. No admission.
To truly appreciate the essence, the size and the wealth of Sao Paulo, visitors can get a bird's-eye view from the Banespa building, at 24 Rua Joao Bricola, 604-1013. You must take two elevators and walk up three flights to a 36-story observation deck that on a clear day offers a 25-mile view. The Municipal Market and the Industrial Palace, built in 1924, are within sight. The deck is open weekdays, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; free.
 
 
Where to Eat
 Reservations are usually necessary in Sao Paulo restaurants; credit cards not always accepted. A 10 percent service charge is often included in the bill.
Thanks to the city's sizable Italian population, Italian restaurants are popular as meeting places for both dining and negotiating. At Fasano, 1644 Rua Haddock Lobo, Jardins, 852-4000, bankers, politicians, artists and writers enjoy crab and endive risotto, lamb with rosemary vinegar and wild rice or ravioloni stuffed with buffalo mozzarella and topped with fresh tomato sauce. Dinner for two with wine is about $138.
Massimo, 1826 Alameda Santos, Jardins, 284-0311, whose innovative menu changes daily, is particularly crowded at lunchtime. A dinner of classic carpaccio, veal in wine sauce with polenta, tiramisu and a modest Italian wine for two is $182.
Sao Paulo's Liberdade neighborhood is home to one of the largest Japanese populations outside of Japan and serves sashimi, sushi and yakisoba at half Tokyo prices. At Sushi Yassu, 98 Rua Tomas Gonzaga, 279-6622, diners slip off their shoes and sip sake. Yakisoba (sauteed vegetables, meat or seafood with noodles) is particularly good here. A combination of sushi and sashimi and sake for two is $72.50.
For a taste more typically Brazilian, Fogo de Chao (Camp Fire), at 6824 Avenida Santo Amaro, Santo Amaro, 247-8786, is a rodizio, where waiters dressed in the cowboy attire of the pampas present diners with skewers of sizzling sausage, rump roast, chicken livers and fillet. Dinner draws a business crowd, while weekend lunch (around 2 P.M.) resounds with boisterous family reunions. Desserts include papaya and pineapple creams. The rodizio with all accompaniments, but no drinks, is $18.40 a person.
Truta Rosa, 318 Avenida Vereador Jose Diniz, Boa Vista, 247-8629, specializes in fresh and smoked rainbow trout. Diners cross a four-step bridge over an indoor brook to reach a trout bar. Smoked trout quiche, rainbow trout sashimi and a carpaccio of trout are among the appetizers. Cappeletti filled with trout, basil, tomatoes and shiitake, and trout roasted in coarse salt and bacon, are among the creative presentations. Trout for two with a local wine is $37.
For thin-crust pizza, Paulistas gather at Cristal, 551 Rua Professor Artur Ramos, 816-6227. Cristal has a number of restaurants throughout the city, but this address is the original. Two individual pizzas and draft beer are $19.30.
 
 
Where to Stay
 The Caesar Towers Higienopolis, 66 Rua Aracaju, 289-7200, fax 825-7409, is a hotel with 38 one- or two-room modern apartments in pastel colors -- all with kitchens. There is also a pool, a sauna, a Japanese restaurant and a coffee shop. Doubles are $120.
The 156-room Eldorado Higienopolis, 836 Rua Marques de Itu, 222-3422, fax 222-7194, offers elegant surroundings. Built in 1977, the hotel has a large, ornately decorated lobby with marble columns, a restaurant, a bar and a pool. Doubles, about $138.
Budget: Planalto, 117 Avenida Casper Libero, 227-7311, fax 227-7916, is in the downtown Centro neighborhood. The 272-room hotel, with mirrors and marble floors, has a restaurant and coffee shop. Double rooms are $118, plus 10 percent tax.
Luxury: L'Hotel, which opened in June less than a block from Avenida Paulista at 266 Alameda Campinas, telephone and fax 283-0500, offers a haven of understated European refinement and excellent service. Among the 84 sumptuously furnished rooms are three suites; all rooms have adapters for cellular phones, laptops and fax machines. Doubles are $390.
The Maksoud Plaza, 150 Alameda Campinas, 253-4411, fax 253-4544, also ideally situated, is considered one of the city's best business hotels, with 420 comfortably furnished rooms. There is a 24-hour executive service center with translation and secretarial services, fax, telex and copying machines, as well as six restaurants, a theater and a nightclub. Doubles are $352.
 
 
Night Life
 The weekly magazine Veja Sao Paulo and the newspapers Folha and Estado are the best places for finding out who is singing, dancing or playing on a given week. The Municipal Theater, Praca Ramos de Azevedo, Centro, 283-4012, is the traditional turn-of-the-century setting for ballet, opera and orchestra performances. Tickets from $23 to $103.50. Performances start at 8:30 or 9 P.M.
International stars such as Diana Ross usually play at the Olympia, 1517 Rua Clelia, 252-6255. Brazil's world-famous singers and songwriters, such as Gal Costa and Leila Pinheiro, can be heard at the Palace, 213 Avenida dos Jamaris, Moema, 531-4900, which can seat as many as 1,700 people. Ticket prices depend on the artist; there is no minimum drinks charge. Shows begin Thursdays at 9:30 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays at 10 P.M.; Sundays at 8 P.M.
The city's discos are particularly fashionable among local residents on weeknights. Resumo da Opera, Eldorado Shopping Center, 3970 Avenida Reboucas, 211-2411, has a twin in Rio de Janeiro; both have D.J.'s playing international pop music for a young crowd. Admission: $10.35; minimum $10.35.
Columbia, 1570 Rua Estados Unidos, Jardins, 282-8086, close to many of Sao Paulo's best restaurants and bars, is also a trendy place to dine and to dance. Admission: $11.50; minimum, $5.75; 10:30 P.M. is the time to make an appearance on the dance floor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Avenida Paulista, once an elegant residential street, now in the chief business center. The Japanese Liberdade neighborhood. A sign on a major street indicates air quality. (Photographs by John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Sao Paulo. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Brazil Tourist Board, Dept. of Meteorology of Sao Paulo, local businesses)
 
Map of Sao Paulo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); SPAIN (77%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO (BRAZIL); BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); SPAIN (77%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TRAINS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); IMMIGRATION (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); PAINTING (71%); RESTAURANTS (67%); METEOROLOGY (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (53%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, ELIZABETH HEILMAN

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



582 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: How Veddy

BYLINE: By Hugh Brogan; Hugh Brogan is the R. A. Butler Professor of History at the University of Essex in England.

 BODY:

MRS. THATCHER'S MINISTER
The Private Diaries of Alan Clark.
By Alan Clark.
Illustrated. 421 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $30. 
 THE immortal diarists -- Samuel Pepys, say, or Harold Ickes -- are those who give their daily experience the color and drama of a strong personality. It is easy to write a dull diary about great events; the master diarists can excite us about the fate of a bird or a night in a bad hotel. Alan Clark is among the classics. He was a Conservative Member of Parliament for 18 years and a minister of the crown for eight. He is not, apparently, a nice man. Though he has some redeeming traits, the only words really suitable to describe him are unfit for a family newspaper; he himself observes in his introduction to this selection from his journal that his entries are "sometimes lacking in charity; often trivial; occasionally lewd; cloyingly sentimental, repetitious, whingeing." Never mind; they are also funny, moving, scandalously indiscreet and written with a mastery of language that compels admiration and attention. It is not in the least surprising that the diaries have been a best seller in Britain.
From the American point of view, however, "Mrs. Thatcher's Minister" has one serious drawback. The diaries are so very English. Before Mr. Clark was a politician, he was a very good military historian. As a scholar he knows what is needed to help the reader, and has taken immense trouble, putting ample notes at the foot of virtually every page. But the world he describes is so esoteric, and his language likewise, that no one who does not know England well can possibly understand everything. For instance, there are repeated references to "my boxes." British readers do not need to have this explained; all know that Government papers are circulated to ministers in red boxes, which have to be emptied before the victim can go to bed. How many American citizens know this?
On the other hand, any patient reader is likely to get the message in the end, so often are the boxes mentioned; so perhaps anyone tempted by the prospect of seeing Margaret Thatcher's Government from the inside, as recorded by an immensely intelligent writer, should simply plunge in. The human interest is intense, and as the pages turn, the slang, the nicknames, the literary, political and journalistic allusions, the bureaucratic jargon will become sufficiently comprehensible. And the patient reader will be rewarded by sharing a richly awful experience.
For Mrs. Thatcher's administration was a snake pit. Perhaps this is true of all democratic governments, but the reflection does not make the spectacle of politicians (all supposedly on the same side) plotting against one another seem less crazily fascinating. Some allowance must be made for the diarist's character. He is the son of Kenneth Clark, the famous art historian, and has inherited, along with his father's money and his castle in Kent, his father's fastidiousness. He regards most other human beings as loathed inferiors. Perhaps his colleagues were not, individually, quite so odious as he shows them; but collectively they emerge as nothing but a gang of selfish mediocrities, scurrying around, biting and snapping, as their country's power, prosperity and happiness, for which they are responsible, ebb fast away. And they were ruled by "the Lady," a woman so passionately unreasonable, and increasingly so domineering and so far removed from reality, that in the end they got rid of her, thinking (or at least saying) that she was insane. One of Mr. Clark's most brilliant passages describes a confrontation with Margaret Thatcher in which she scuppers a cherished measure for animal welfare. At such moments he plays H. R. Haldeman to her Richard Nixon.
Yet the total effect is more comic than dispiriting, because Mr. Clark sees so much and writes so well. Once, for instance, he is jolted into a moment of self-knowledge. He confronts a demonstration of unemployed workers, and "one man . . . looked dreadfully thin and ill. He had a nice brindle greyhound on a leash, but it looked miserable too. . . . Uncomfortable, I thought what Soames and I can spend between us on a single meal at Wiltons." ("Soames" is a grandson of Winston Churchill.) He records Margaret Thatcher's letting fall an aphorism worthy of Mayor Richard J. Daley: "I've learned one thing in politics. You don't take a decision until you have to." He complains that entertaining friends is too difficult: "It's so expensive, with good claret at 100 -- minimum -- per bottle." There are a hundred other such give-aways. This is an ideal bedside book, like all the great diaries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MRS THATCHER'S MINISTER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WRITERS (76%); POLITICS (75%); HISTORY (73%); LITERATURE (69%); ART HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: BROGAN, HUGH; CLARK, ALAN MARGARET THATCHER (92%); KENNETH MACKENZIE CLARK (74%); ALAN CLARK (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



583 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Where's the Money?

BYLINE: By Lawrence S. Ritter; Lawrence S. Ritter is the John M. Schiff Professor Emeritus of Finance at New York University. He is the author, with William L. Silber, of "Principles of Money, Banking, and Financial Markets."

 BODY:

A PIECE OF THE ACTION
How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class.
By Joseph Nocera.
464 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $25. 
 ONLY a generation ago, financial decisions required little thought. To earn interest, you took your money to a bank and opened a passbook savings account. For dividends or capital gains, you bought shares of Ma Bell or I.B.M. And to pay for everyday expenses, you either dug into your wallet or else wrote a check on your commercial bank checking account; until 1980, only commercial banks were allowed to issue checkbooks.
Now things are different. A savings account is no longer the only choice open to thrifty households -- money market deposit accounts, negotiable order-of-withdrawal accounts and money market mutual funds offer alternative opportunities. More adventurous investors no longer have to like AT&T or I.B.M. in order to make a killing; there are mutual funds tailored to suit any taste, as well as an array of index funds and stock futures and options that allow you to buy or sell groups of stocks, or even the whole stock market, all at once. And for daily expenses, we can all be as aloof as the Queen of England, who is said to carry nary a farthing in her purse. Nowadays credit cards are often more convenient than either currency or checks, and in an emergency, automatic teller machines stay open around the clock.
In "A Piece of the Action," Joseph Nocera, a financial columnist at GQ magazine, traces how we got from yesterday to today. He emphasizes the role of double-digit inflation in the 1970's in making middle-class households interest-rate conscious, the restless revolutionaries in double-breasted suits who unearthed ways to circumvent restrictive Government regulations, and the philosophy of financial deregulation that took hold in the Carter Administration and gained momentum in the Reagan years.
For example, Mr. Nocera notes that money market mutual funds might never have come into existence in the 1970's if it had not been for Government regulations that kept an unrealistic lid on the interest rates that banks were allowed to pay. Depositors became upset because Government-imposed interest-rate ceilings prevented them from getting market yields on their savings. Even banks that wanted to pay market rates in order to keep their old depositors, or attract new ones, were not allowed to do so. Bank certificates of deposit carried market interest rates only if they were in denominations of $100,000 or larger. Depositors with a few thousand dollars turned to Treasury bills to get a better yield, but the United States Treasury countered by raising minimum bill denominations from $1,000 to $10,000.
In that atmosphere of frustration, money market mutual funds were created by entrepreneurs who saw an unfilled need and figured out a way to satisfy it. They gathered together the funds of many small savers, in batches as small as $1,000, and packaged them in amounts large enough to meet the minimum denomination requirements of certificates of deposit, Treasury bills and other money market instruments. Since money market mutual funds were brand-new and politicians had not yet had a chance to shackle them, they were free to offer competitive interest rates.
Technology, the traditional stimulus to change in business and industry, is powerful in financial markets as well. Mr. Nocera shows how the computer explosion created the foundation for financial innovation. It would be impossible to have automated teller machines without computerization of the deposit and withdrawal functions. Nor could credit cards have become so ubiquitous without the instant storage, retrieval and transmission of vast amounts of information. Computers have revolutionized the speed and cost of processing data, with financial consequences that are probably still in their infancy.
MR. NOCERA is especially fascinated by the flamboyant group of talented innovators who dreamed up the concepts, tried to figure out which would work and which wouldn't, and embarked on stormy shakedown cruises of the new financial instruments. We get to know, among others, the fun-seeking Charlie Merrill, who dreamed of "bringing Wall Street to Main Street" and in 1914 founded the firm that would become Merrill Lynch; the handsome Gerry Tsai, the first celebrity mutual fund manager; the mercurial Dee Hock, who ran Bank of America's (later Visa's) credit card operations from 1970 to 1984; the quiet Ned Johnson, the head of Fidelity, who actually did bring Wall Street to Main Street; the brilliant Peter Lynch (not related to the Lynches of Merrill Lynch), the former manager of Fidelity's Magellan Fund and the most successful of all mutual fund managers, and the mathematics and computer genius Andrew Kahr, inventor of Merrill Lynch's cash management account and the Schwab One Account, who still found time to devise the ingenious concept of a "nonbank bank."
The "nonbank bank" idea had enormous ramifications. Above all, it undermined the functional separation of commercial and investment banking, a bedrock financial principle that had been sacrosanct since the enactment of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1933. Commercial banks are defined in the statutes as institutions that both accept demand deposits and make business loans. Mr. Kahr reasoned that by dropping one of these functions, usually the making of business loans, institutions could transform themselves into "nonbank banks" -- that is, they could continue to deal in checking accounts but no longer be bound by the numerous Government restrictions that had historically confined the activities of commercial banks.
Once the Federal Reserve Bank gave its reluctant approval to the "nonbank bank" concept, "the consequence," writes Mr. Nocera, "was that companies felt restrained only by the limits of their own imagination." Thus Bank of America promptly acquired Charles Schwab & Company, a discount brokerage house; Merrill Lynch, Dreyfus and Prudential-Bache bought commercial banks, and Security Pacific National Bank bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. With banks in the securities business and brokerage houses in the banking business, it soon became difficult to tell one kind of financial institution from another.
"A Piece of the Action" is not a complete financial history of the last quarter-century, nor does it pretend to be. International monetary problems, the savings and loan debacle, junk bonds, leveraged buyouts, insider trading and derivative financial instruments (options and futures) are hardly mentioned. Mr. Nocera sets out to demonstrate "how the middle class joined the money class" and he does just that: credit cards and mutual funds have indeed, for better or worse, transformed the spending and saving habits of millions of middle-income Americans. More than 70 million households use credit cards today. There are 4,900 mutual funds, and they hold assets of more than $2,000 billion. The assets of mutual funds exceed that of life insurance companies or savings institutions. How it all happened is a story worth telling, and Mr. Nocera narrates it admirably, with rare insight and considerable flair.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PIECE OF THE ACTION, A (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); FUTURES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); WRITERS (71%); DEREGULATION (69%); INDEX FUNDS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); BRITISH MONARCHS (51%); 

PERSON: RITTER, LAWRENCE S; NOCERA, JOSEPH RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



584 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Multiculturalism

BYLINE: By Leon Wieseltier; Leon Wieseltier is the literary editor of The New Republic.

 BODY:

DICTATORSHIP OF VIRTUE
Multiculturalism and the Battle for America's Future.
By Richard Bernstein.
367 pp. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. $25. 
PLURALISM is hard, for individuals and for groups. In the United States, however, we have been so vain for so long about pluralism that we have forgotten its hardships. Pluralism, after all, is premised not only on difference, but on the proximity of difference: another way to live is never out of mind in America, because it is never out of sight. The sidewalks are crowded with incommensurabilities. You live and work and play with people for whom your view of the world is nonsense, or worse.
Exclusiveness is an illusion when experience is so porous, when everything is everywhere. There is no safety in numbers. There is safety only in sameness; and so pluralism frequently provokes noisy fits of sameness. The recent movement in culture and politics known as multiculturalism is one of those noisy fits. It will pass, but it will come again. It is a regular feature of the American situation. Multiculturalism claims to originate in a fear of homogeneity, of an erasure of the particular by the general; but in truth it reflects a fear of heterogeneity, which is a classically American fear.
It should be obvious, as an empirical matter, that American society has been, for at least a hundred years, a multicultural society. A multicultural society, however, produces multicultural individuals. And multicultural individuals, from the standpoint of the ancestral group and the inherited tradition, are lost individuals, and fallen. They join, in their persons, influences and instructions that were not supposed to be joined. The American problem for groups and traditions has been to retain the tolerance of the country and the loyalty of their sons and daughters. And so the ideal of traditionalists in the United States is a multicultural society of monocultural people, an American nation that is nothing more than a peaceful association of conformities. They believe in an impossible union of insularity and democracy. But their mixture of tolerance in the street and intolerance in the home often comes to ruin, and so they, the free and strung-out communities of America, panic. They read, and eat, and marry, inconsistently with their own.
Richard Bernstein has written a study of panic. It is itself, unfortunately, a little panicked. "Dictatorship of Virtue" is a weak and important book. Its importance is owed to its author's indefatigability. A cultural correspondent for The New York Times, Mr. Bernstein has documented in detail the extent to which the attempt to promote "diversity" has stifled diversity, and the attempt to rectify racial and sexual stereotyping has reproduced it. Mr. Bernstein roams widely across the boardrooms and the newsrooms and the classrooms of America, where he has discovered (and, in a few cases, thinks that he has discovered) the gutting of the meritocratic vision by racial and sexual preferments.
His most harrowing tales, however, come from the embattled precincts of American education. In Washington, an educational consultant complains that "many educators fail to recognize important cultural differences between Europeans or Euro-Americans and Africans or African-Americans," and proposes to turn back the hegemony with a curriculum according to which "Africans know through symbols, imagery and rhythm, while Europeans know through counting and measuring." And there is this example of politically and sexually enlightened pedagogy on the campus: "The number of seconds required to perform a six-week vacuum aspiration abortion was recorded for a sample of six such abortions," a professor of mathematics at the State University of New York tells his students. "The results were as follows: 84, 100, 80, 85 and 84. For this sample, find: (a) The mean and the median. (b) The range, the variance and the standard deviation." Never mind that the professor was so smitten with the righteousness of his six examples that he gave only five results. Mr. Bernstein misses the mistake, but he is perfectly on the mark in noting that "here is a way to impart political points of view without bothering to have to defend them or discuss them."
Mr. Bernstein has grasped also that there is something new about the contemporary panic. Multiculturalism has contributed an emphasis to the repertory of American resentments, and that is the vanity of victimhood. It is a fine thing that the oppressed (or their descendants) no longer feel shame about their predicament; but many of them have gone all the way from shame to pride. This, of course, plays right into the hands of their predicament, by promoting it into the foundation for a politics and a culture. Lachrymosity, for individuals and for communities, has became exhilarating. Scars have become signatures; and the prevailing notion of honor requires that scars not heal. Self-reliance is no longer an American characteristic, when the work of one's hands is interpreted as the successful seizure of what one is owed. For many of the angry and animated people whom Mr. Bernstein has visited, there is no advancement, there is only restitution, and the restitution for racial and sexual oppression will never be complete.
Since it is impossible for one's pain to be understood with precision by someone else, it is the better part of social wisdom to be patient with misunderstanding; or the efforts even of good people will be experienced as insults. But patience is disappearing from the United States, and our public life is becoming a brawl of insults. Of course, insulting with impunity used to be one of the distinguishing marks of a democracy; but Mr. Bernstein offers instance after instance of individuals and institutions in America who refuse to suffer what he nicely calls "the normal offenses of everyday life," who would rather tamper with the freedom of others than thicken their own skins. His accounts of sensitivity training in the workplace and on campus are especially discouraging.
The problem is that Mr. Bernstein's gift for anecdote is greater than his gift for analysis. He despises multiculturalism, but he is not exactly sure what it means. In one chapter it is the "derapage," or the skid, of liberalism, and in another chapter it is the "secret victory" of the counterculture. (For Mr. Bernstein, everything to the left of the right is pretty much the same.) He wishes to seem a reasonable man, advocating no more than "a certain common-sensical approach" and observing that multiculturalism is merely "far too much . . . made of a few useful insights"; but then he is put in mind of Robespierre, and then in mind of Mao, and then in mind of Stalin. Such analogies rattle the reader's confidence in the reporter.
Mr. Bernstein's anger at the multicultural burlesque of pluralism is, much of the time, not at all misplaced, but it also gives way before a troublesome complacence, as when he remarks about the systematic destruction of the Indian population of America that "history is often a tragic process." There is no crime that cannot be marginalized with a reference to tragedy, and it is a strange retort to those who insist upon the essential guilt of America to insist upon its essential innocence.
Mr. Bernstein handles ideas coarsely. When he turns from the work of the journalist to the work of the intellectual, he makes mistakes. "Reify" is not a "New Age academic term," as anybody who sets out to write about the contemporary convulsions in the humanities should know. Worrying about cultural relativism, Mr. Bernstein flirts with false and ugly notions about the superiority of some civilizations over others. (From the fact that all civilizations are not the same it does not follow that they are not "equal.") And he believes that multiculturalism represents a revival of what he calls, much too suavely, "that discredited 19th-century concept called Marxism." This is preposterous. Multiculturalism will make no revolutions and establish no concentration camps; and compared to the tribal mystifications of race and gender, the economic simplifications of Marx are the sterling stuff of universalism.
Many of Mr. Bernstein's stories fill one with horror. Good people have suffered, personally and professionally, at the hands of the anti-egalitarians. Still, multiculturalism in America does not amount to a "New Consciousness," or to any kind of cultural conspiracy. You would not know from Mr. Bernstein's melodramatic book that the anti-egalitarians are meeting decent and fierce resistance. Or that they are, finally, divided against themselves: nobody ever responded to the temptations of an open society by resisting them completely.
The airless, cheerless order of the diversity police will be defeated by the diversity of the land in which they have prospered. Many things are possible in America, but the singleness of identity is not one of them. This is what Mr. Bernstein's villains, and also some of his heroes, do not see. The dream of liberalism was not the multicultural society, it was the multicultural individual; and in America the dream came true.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DICTATORSHIP OF VIRTUE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: WIESELTIER, LEON; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD RICHARD A BERNSTEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1994



585 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: What Those Figures on New Jobs Really Mean

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Statistics Reveal Bulk of New Jobs Pay Over Average" (front page, Oct. 17) leaves a misleading impression that the economy has recently been creating large numbers of very high-paying managerial and professional jobs. 
 While it is true, as the new Bureau of Labor Statistics figures show, that a large fraction of the new jobs created in the last few years have been in those categories, you did not discuss two other important facts.
(1) Most of the new managerial jobs are in very low-paying industries (for example, lodging, retailing and fast food restaurants) with average compensation considerably below the average of all existing managerial jobs.
(2) Many of those in newly created professional jobs were victims of corporate downsizing. For lack of other opportunities, they have become self-employed consultants, in most cases earning far less than when they were employed full time.
This helps explain why the increase in average hourly pay for all workers since 1990 lags far behind the rate of increase in the 1960's and 1970's, even though the economy is now considered to be at or close to full employment. Indeed, as the graphs in your article indicate, the growth in average hourly compensation since 1990 is barely higher than during the 1980's, which was by far the worst decade for employee compensation since World War II.
The bottom line is that while living standards in the United States may be slightly better than during the 1980's, they are on average improving only marginally at best, lagging far behind the gains that were made in earlier decades. This is partly because a large fraction of the new jobs that are being created provide relatively low compensation, despite the opposite impression left by your article.
 
LAWRENCE CHIMERINE
Managing Director, Chief Economist
Economic Strategy Institute
Washington, Oct. 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); FAST FOOD (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: CHIMERINE, LAWRENCE

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



586 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
HAITI SECURITY A PROBLEM
The American plan to purge Haiti's security forces and quickly retrain them is in jeopardy, with many of them abandoning their posts in the face of fierce anger among Haitians over years of abuse. A1 

CRACKDOWN BY ISRAEL
Israel arrested dozens of people who are believed to have ties with the militant group that took responsibility for bombing a bus in Tel Aviv, killing 23 people. A3
 
REFORMING THE SECURITY COUNCIL
Most members of the United Nations recognize that the Security Council's makeup is out of date, with the nations making the decisions and those that must carry them out often at odds. A6
 
A loan was offered to the Rwandan United Nations mission. A6
 
The United States is trying to aid new African democracies. A6
 
U.S. AND BRITAIN AT ODDS
Relations between the United States and Britain have hit a rough patch, with differences over Northern Ireland and Bosnia the main problems, and the United States is trying to smooth things over. A7
 
BOMB KILLS SRI LANKA CANDIDATE
A bombing at an election rally in Sri Lanka killed the opposition presidential candidate and a number of other people as peace talks were about to begin with rebels to end an 11-year ethnic war. A3
 
FROM RUSSIA, PROMISES
Russia has developed a pattern of promising stern measures to keep its economy in check, not carrying them out and then calling on the International Monetary Fund or others for loans. A5
 
NEW HIGH-YIELD RICE
Scientists said they have developed a new strain of rice that would increase harvests 20 to 25 percent, with the potential to feed an additional 500 million people. A9
 
Former Communists were holding on in Macedonia. A8
 
Ziar nad Hronom Journal: Cleaning up pollution in Slovakia. A4
 
National A12-15, B8-9
 
COOL CALIFORNIA CAMPAIGN
Gov. Pete Wilson is a Republican incumbent who seems to be evading this year's animus toward office holders by running a tightly focused campaign that centers on a ballot measure that is intended to stem illegal immigration. A1
 
POLITICS WITHOUT NUANCES
Political Memo: In a particularly perilous campaign year, political consultants are constructing advertisements with only a few themes and some very sharp jabs. A1
 
CYCLE OF WELFARE AND JOBS
Several recent studies have shown that poor women leave the welfare rolls for jobs more often than was thought but that they soon quit and return to welfare because of the low pay or loss of health coverage. A1
 
PARENTS BATTLE EDUCATORS
Teachers often talk of a need for parents to be involved in the education of their children, but in West Pikeland, Pa., and across the country that involvement is taking the form of rebellion against educational institutions. A1
 
PRESIDENT SEEKS CALM
Blaming Republicans for fanning anger among Americans, President Clinton told Democrats at a political rally in Seattle that they needed to give voters the real picture of what is going on. B8
 
SPECIAL INTERESTS FALTER
Contributions to political action committees are below the level of the last midterm elections in 1990, particularly for the groups in the pro-Israel lobby because of growing optimism over the peace process in the Middle East. B9
 
BATTLE OVER BUDGET OPTIONS
A memorandum to President Clinton on the budget possibilities of new taxes and cuts in Social Security and Medicare is evoking glee among Republicans and a White House effort to assure that it is not interpreted as setting policy. B8
 
SIMPSON TRIAL AND TABLOID
Everybody says they do not read The National Enquirer, and even more profess not to believe it even if they happen to see a headline in the checkout line of a grocery. But it is likely to have an effect on the trial of O. J. Simpson, which it has accurately covered in great detail, simply because it is everywhere. A12
 
CROSSROADS OF DISASTER
The Houston area has had four days of miseries and one unassuming suburb of single-family houses, Channelview, has been at the center of the problems. A12
 
SOCIAL HEALTH IMPROVES
The nation's social well-being as measured by indices on 16 social issues rose last year after three years of declines, Fordham University researchers reported yesterday, but they noted that the measures were still at one of the lowest points in 23 years. A15
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A CONTRACTOR'S WOES
Dave Allan's bridge reconstruction project may shut down because, he says, Long Island's construction unions have banded together to deny his non-unionized company access to building materials. A1
 
GIULIANI HITS THE ROAD
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has stepped gingerly onto the national political trail, endorsing Republicans in his own image while spelling out a vision of a more centrist Republican Party. A1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Okinawan Japanese ask Florida college to return a statue. C11
 
Kitaj vs. British critics. C11
 
Music: Goode on Beethoven. C11
 
A Mass Berlioz withdrew. C14
 
The Jesus and Mary Chain. C15
 
Dance: Pennsylvania Ballet. C14
 
Books: Literacy and society. C15
 
Television: "The Mother." C16
 
"Inside the Vatican." C16
 
Sports C1-10
 
Basketball: Isiah Thomas in N.B.A. boardroom. C1
 
Columns: Anderson on Giants. C8
 
On baseball. C4
 
On pro football. C9
 
Football: Steelers beat Giants. C1
 
Cowboys overcome Cardinals after Aikman is knocked out.C7
 
Broncos defeat Chargers. C7
 
Lions beat Bears. C7
 
Golf: U.S. women win Solheim Cup. C4
 
Hockey: N.H.L. makes overtures to agents. C4
 
Horse Racing: Colonial Affair's career is over. C2
 
Sports People C10
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B12
 
Dr. Rollo May, an innovative psychotherapist.
 
William A. Leonard, former president of CBS News.
 
George H. Gay, pilot who survived battle of Midway.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
The "Bell Curve" agenda.
 
The gag rule, revisited.
 
Fixing peacekeeping practices.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Wrong from the start.
 
William Safire: Clinton's concessions.
 
Peter H. Smith: Politics that kill.
 
Bridge C16
 
Chronicle B10
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SRI LANKA (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SRI LANKA (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); POLITICS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RICE FARMING (69%); BALLOTS (66%); REFERENDUMS (66%); CHILDREN (64%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



587 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE MAYOR;
Giuliani Takes Political Roles In Other States

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
After rarely venturing out of New York City for the first nine months of his mayoralty, Rudolph W. Giuliani stood last week in the grand white living room of a home in the Detroit suburbs flashing grin after grin as local Republicans posed for pictures beside him, Michigan's Governor and the Republican candidate for state attorney general.
Mr. Giuliani was just moving into his fund-raising pitch for the long shot in the attorney-general race, John A. Smietanka, when a man murmured a number -- the size of New York City's budget gap. "What?" Mr. Giuliani asked. "Our deficit? We're going to overcome it." He mentioned cost-cutting and privatization before turning his focus back to the out-of-town politics. 
 While New Yorkers wonder will he or won't he support the Republican contender for governor, George E. Pataki, Mr. Giuliani has stepped gingerly onto the national political trail, endorsing Republicans in his own image: those who favored the Federal crime bill, or support abortion rights, or once served, as he did, as a Federal prosecutor.
He has visited Connecticut, New Jersey and Detroit and plans to stump for candidates in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. He has used some of his appearances to spell out a vision of a more centrist Republican Party, one that will recognize that it is now electing big-city mayors and will be more responsive to urban concerns.
And two weeks ago in Atlanta, Mr. Giuliani told Republican women to fight to remove the anti-abortion plank from the national party platform in 1996 -- taking his message to the backyard of Representative Newt Gingrich, the more conservative Republican who is the House minority whip and may be the Speaker if Republicans win a majority in the House.
The travel comes at a time when Mr. Giuliani's failure to back Mr. Pataki has riled Republicans across New York State. Some see the endorsements as a way to assure his party that he is a loyalist while at the same time making ties he could need if Mr. Pataki wins and threatens to eclipse him as the up-and-coming New York Republican.
Mr. Giuliani calls the timing coincidental and says he would have supported the out-of-state candidates no matter where he stood in the New York race.
He said that several of the candidates, like Mr. Smietanka, a former Federal prosecutor, were friends from his days in the Justice Department. Over all, he said, the group was largely what he would describe as "fiscal conservatives and social moderates" who he thought would be sympathetic to the concerns of New York City.
"The more relationships that I can develop, the more people you can win over, it makes it much easier to call on the phone and explain to them the position that New York City can be in," he said in an interview. "The more of this that I can do and do strategically, the more effective I can be if fights like the crime bill come up again."
Mr. Giuliani is not the only newly elected Republican out on the campaign trail. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey had preceded him to Michigan and was the star attraction at Mr. Pataki's Manhattan fund-raiser last week. It is not lost on Republican officials that it is such early steps on the political hustings that help a future candidate build visibility and a base of support.
"You help people and you help yourself," said Chuck Yob, a Republican national committeeman from Michigan who was helping shepherd Mr. Giuliani through the Detroit suburbs last Tuesday.
Mr. Giuliani deflects questions about his ambitions. "I have a simple view about the future -- try to do your job the best you can," he said. "I don't think that in a job like mayor you spend a lot of time thinking about the future or you make a big mistake."
His aides and political advisers, however, openly speculate about a possible governor's race or Vice-Presidential bid.
But can a Republican Mayor of New York City remain mainstream enough for his own party? While Mr. Giuliani's fiscal conservatism is in line with Republican economic policies, the Mayor has increasingly struck a course that has put him at odds with other Republicans -- whether it be stumping at President Clinton's side for the Federal crime bill or flirting politically with Mario M. Cuomo, the Democratic Governor, at a time when Republicans have their best shot at the Governor's Mansion in Albany in 12 years.
And recently, as he has maintained that New York does not get its fair share of Federal aid, he has used Mr. Gingrich's Georgia as an example of a state that gets more than its share. During his first months in office, Mr. Giuliani often referred instead to President Clinton's Arkansas in such a context.
Such political independence has caused Mr. Giuliani's popularity ratings to rise in predominantly Democratic New York City. But some officials wonder whether he is hurting his ability to seek a higher office in the Republican Party, making comparisons to John V. Lindsay, the city's last Republican Mayor, who was re-elected on the Liberal Party line and later became a Democrat.
"You have to be a different kind of Republican to be elected Mayor of New York City," said Guy V. Molinari, the Republican Borough President of Staten Island, who broke with Mr. Giuliani over his support for the Federal crime bill.
"But you can't change overnight and become a Republican with a capital R and expect the party statewide and nationwide to embrace you. There are too many other Republicans out there with solid credentials who have first call."
Mr. Giuliani's description of Mr. Smietanka's credentials last week on a Detroit radio talk show provided a glimpse at how he may be trying to position himself in an era in which voters are angry at government and suspicious of politicians.
He spoke of "a time in which people want someone who can make decisions, as opposed to what I think they describe as someone with a total political background, someone who has been in politics, their whole career is politics."
With Republicans divided and expected to be in a battle to define their party's soul in 1996, Mr. Giuliani has also been calling for a centrist party that would find positions in favor of gay rights and abortion rights palatable.
At a breakfast meeting in Atlanta with Republicans who favor abortion rights, Mr. Giuliani said a political party that favored laissez-faire government in fiscal affairs should also allow people to make choices in their personal lives.
"For a party which has such a strong belief in economic choice -- which really comes out of the notion of freedom -- it would seem to me that it would be entirely consistent that that choice would also extend to the most personal and difficult decisions that people have to make," he said.
"What we have to do is get as many people back to the center of the Republican Party as possible," he said. "I believe that is a battle that will be fought out over the next two years, and frankly I think it will determine whether we win the Presidency, irrespective of the position that President Clinton is in right now. With very, very few exceptions, you can't win Presidential elections by appealing to extremes. You win Presidential elections by appealing to the broad goals of the American people."
For now, as a Republican Mayor of New York City, Mr. Giuliani is a curiosity. With Mr. Smietanka at his side, Mr. Giuliani fielded questions from Ronna Romney, a talk show host back on the airwaves after her recent narrow loss for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate from Michigan.
Mrs. Romney, a feisty conservative whom a local columnist described as having a tongue that could "strip the varnish off the living-room floor," showed none of her tough side in questioning Mr. Giuliani. She asked about his son, Andrew. Whether the Mayor goes to bed wondering if he is really up to the job. Whether it is harder to be Mayor of New York or Los Angeles.
"I think that when you won, it was really the beginning of perhaps a historical breakthrough in politics in America," Mrs. Romney said, unabashedly confessing during a break that in this particular interview she was not playing hardball.
Mr. Giuliani was able to use his air time on WJR to enunciate a Jack Kemp-style vision of home ownership for the urban poor and to say that the election of Republican mayors like himself give the party "a new opening, a new opportunity, and some of the programs of the party now have to open up to the cities, to make themselves relevant to cities."
There were a few signs that Mr. Giuliani, who may seem slightly right of center in heavily Democratic New York City, felt the balance shift on him among Republican circles in Michigan. He remained quiet when Mrs. Romney made an off-air sardonic reference to homosexuals in New York's St. Patrick's Day Parade. But when she said she would like to see prisoners packed four to a cell to make prison "a really lousy experience," he interrupted.
"Now there's another aspect of that," he said. "If you were the prison warden or the prison guard, you would have a concern that the conditions of a prison not be so lousy because a prison that goes below, let's say constitutional, standards, it's obviously a dangerous prison."
Afterward, the talk-show host said she was impressed. "If his accomplishments in New York are measurable," Mrs. Romney said, "he should be someone we should look at."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been venturing into politicking in other states and in Washington. Last week the Mayor conferred in the capital with the House minority whip, Newt Gingrich, the Georgia Republican. (Associated Press)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK REPUBLICAN (56%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ABORTION (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) RUDY GIULIANI (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



588 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Mothers Find Jobs Are Easier to Get Than Hold

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
Poor women leave the welfare rolls for jobs much more often than was previously thought, but the low-paying and sometimes unattractive work rarely provides a long-term solution to dependence, according to several recent studies.
Most of the women soon quit or lose the jobs and return to the welfare rolls. The reasons for leaving work can be as varied as economic problems, like low wages or the loss of insurance, and personal difficulties, like drug abuse or fights with bosses. 
 And at an employment program here near Cabrini-Green, the vast housing project, many women cite a complication rarely noted in official debate: jealous interference or even physical assault by boyfriends who felt threatened by the prospect of their independence.
The frequent cycling on and off the rolls challenges the common perception of a welfare mother as a woman who has never worked. And it suggests that Congress faces a doubly difficult challenge as it seeks to overhaul the system -- not simply getting women into jobs, but keeping them there.
The women at Project Match, the employment program here, can recite long lists of jobs they have won and lost in between lengthy sojourns on public aid. They have bottled lotion, changed hotel beds and worked at convenience stores. They have fried hot dogs at horse tracks and cruised the aisles of catalogue warehouses on roller-skates, filling customer orders.
Most of the women complained that the low-paying jobs left them nearly as poor as they had been on welfare, and in some cases caused them to lose their children's health insurance. But many also faulted themselves, lamenting what they called their bad attitudes or insufficient drive.
The most extensive study of welfare cycling comes from LaDonna A. Pavetti, a researcher at the Urban Institute in Washington. Ms. Pavetti found that 64 percent of the women coming on the welfare rolls for the first time left within two years. But more than three-quarters of those who left welfare eventually returned, and 45 percent returned within a year.
The policy implications of Ms. Pavetti's work are up for grabs. Some people have argued that the data make the case for placing strict time limits on assistance. They say the cycling shows that jobs are available but that welfare recipients lack the perseverance to keep them.
But others cite the cycling phenomenon to criticize time limits. They say it shows that the women are already motivated to work but are thwarted by forces beyond their control. The way to bolster employment, these people say, is to offer health insurance, child care, transportation and wage subsidies, so that jobs become profitable.
Roslyn Hale, one Project Match participant, can serve as a case study of the difficulties of leaving welfare, having landed and lost a succession of jobs for reasons that alternately invite and discourage public sympathy. She worked as a hotel maid in the nearby business district for several years, she said, but lost the job after a fight in which she was accused of physically threatening her supervisor.
She then got a checkout job at a convenience store. But it required her to work the overnight shift, where drunks from a nearby bar taunted her and one threatened her at knife point. She left and found work at another convenience store, where she felt safer. But business took a downturn, and Ms. Hale was laid off. Now, at the age of 30, she is again supporting her 4-year-old son on a grant of about $270 a month, along with food stamps.
Sometimes Ms. Hale blames economics for her problems. "All the low-class jobs mostly start for you at minimum wage," she said. And sometimes she blames herself. "I have an attitude," she admitted.
But most of all, she stresses that simply landing a job is no guarantee of gaining a foothold on a middle-class life. "I have worked, gotten on aid, worked, gotten off aid," she said, describing the pattern that prevails throughout her neighborhood.
Ms. Pavetti has refined much-publicized studies done by David T. Ellwood and Mary Jo Bane, former Harvard University professors who now are Assistant Secretaries at the Department of Health and Human Services.
Mr. Ellwood and Ms. Bane found less fluctuation than did Ms. Pavetti because they used a different database, one that recorded whether a person had received aid in a given year. But Ms. Pavetti examined month-by-month records and found that women sometimes hopscotched on and off assistance several times in a year.
All three researchers studied the main Federal welfare program, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, which now supports more than 14 million people.
Ms. Pavetti's work has also unearthed new information about why women leave the rolls. The earlier studies had estimated that of those who left, only 21 percent did so because they found work, while 30 percent left because they got married.
But Ms. Pavetti's study found that work was by far the most common reason for leaving the rolls, accounting for 46 percent of all exits. And other recent studies, using different data and time periods, have come up with even higher estimates.
Scholars generally used to divide welfare recipients into two categories, long-term and short-term, but Ms. Pavetti's work has led them to discuss a large third group: cyclers.
Ms. Pavetti estimated that about 40 percent of the women who began a welfare spell went on to fit the cycler category. They collected checks for more than 24 of the next 60 months, although their use of the system was intermittent. By contrast, only 18 percent became long-term users, collecting checks continuously for the five years that Ms. Pavetti examined. And 42 percent had short stays, using the system for less than 24 of the 60 months.
Ms. Pavetti noted that while long-term users were a small percentage of any group beginning a stay on welfare, they accounted for about two-thirds of the people on the rolls at a given moment.
Still, Ms. Pavetti said, researchers have little statistical basis for judging the reasons that people lose jobs. "We're only starting to understand what causes people to move on and off," she said.
Project Match has won a national reputation for following recipients after they get jobs, on the assumption that problems will arise. "People don't keep their first job," said Toby Herr, the program's director.
When researchers from Northwestern University examined the program, they found that 46 percent of the women lost their first jobs within six months and 73 percent did so within a year. Some of the reasons the researchers noted are those commonly cited by advocates for the poor, including a lack of child care or health insurance.
But they also found that the women often lacked the social skills necessary for work. Many of the women resented the authority of supervisors, quarreled with co-workers or customers or failed to report on time. Ms. Herr adds to the long list of employment hurdles interference of resentful boyfriends, some of whom even follow the women to work and threaten them. She said an overhaul of the welfare system would not work unless it found ways to also improve the employment of men.
"It's the untold story," she said. "The men are not working, and they don't want the women feeling better. They don't want to think they're not needed anymore."
Sitting in the Project Match office, Vanessa Williams agreed with Ms. Herr's theory, explaining how she had lost a succession of jobs because of disasters with men. She quit once, she said, because the man she was living with was using her absence from the house to throw drug parties, when he was supposed to be baby-sitting. She left him, found a new boyfriend and landed a job at an automotive glass company that paid $8.50 an hour.
But she said her new boyfriend also began using drugs. When she put him out by changing the lock, he knocked down the door, then burned it and beat her so badly that "I thought I was dead." Ms. Williams, who is 34, said she quit working "because he used to come to the job and threaten me."
Often, the women who leave jobs do so because they encounter several problems at once. When Alesia Waits explained why she left her telemarketing job, for instance, she first stressed the loss of health insurance. Her daughter injured herself by dropping a radio on her toe, and Ms. Waits, 26, found herself with a $131 hospital bill. Reclaiming her insurance by returning to welfare, she said, "was a real relief."
But she also explained that she found the job dreary and the pay low, at $5.25 an hour. The men on the other end of the telephone would sometimes turn the conversation from sales to sex. She got only two bathroom breaks every five-hour shift, she said, and her supervisor kept her under close watch. "I believe she was prejudiced," she said.
After another stay on welfare, Ms. Waits is now back at work, earning $7.50 an hour at a racetrack concession stand, where she enjoys the company of her customers and the other workers. The job offers health insurance, and the government provides child care.
"You have to like where you're working at," she said. "And like the money. And have the benefits. And get a baby sitter. Then there's no reason for you to go on welfare."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sometimes, boyfriends or husbands keep women from staying in jobs that keep them off welfare. Vanessa Williams of Chicago said she once quit a job because her boyfriend "used to come to the job and threaten me." (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: URBAN INSTITUTE URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WOMEN; RESEARCH; HEALTH INSURANCE; WAGES AND SALARIES; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CYCLING (88%); WOMEN (78%); CASE STUDIES (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (73%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (66%); HOTEL STAFF (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (56%); RETAILERS (51%); CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON LADONNA A PAVETTI (91%); ROSLYN HALE (57%); MARY JO BANE (55%); DAVID T ELLWOOD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



589 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: TRAINING OF POLICE IN HAITI HAMPERED BY PERSONNEL GAP

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT with JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's plan for maintaining order in Haiti has been thrown into jeopardy by the disappearance of most of the 7,000 Haitian soldiers and police officers who were to be candidates for a temporary force, senior American military and civilian officials say.
But with no good alternative, the United States is plunging ahead with a patchwork system in the hope of allowing American troops to hand off policing duties, which they accepted only reluctantly. 
 Justice Department experts are to begin training a new, permanent Haitian police force in January.
Administration officials consider the task of policing Haiti's streets to be the biggest headache in what they see as an otherwise remarkably smooth intervention.
They worry that their original plan -- to purge the existing security forces and quickly retrain them -- may be impractical because of the deep anger among Haitians who suffered under military rule. That anger has led many Haitian soldiers and police officers to abandon their posts rather than risk retaliation.
But in the meantime, the Administration is trying to coax back thousands of members of the security forces to serve in a temporary force. About 1,200 Haitians from refugee camps in the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have been recruited and trained to be clerks and to direct traffic. And some of the police officers who did not flee are being sent from their home districts to cities where subprecincts have vanished.
American Army commanders two weeks ago tried to install new policemen in Cap-Haitien, the country's second-largest city. But a crowd of several hundred people hooted down the recruits when they recognized them as veterans of the repressive Haitian military who had served in the northern city.
Residents have cautiously accepted a second group of Haitian military veterans from elsewhere in the country who are supervised by police monitors from Argentina.
The problem of the army and police, actually one joint force, has consumed much of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's first week back in office after three years in exile.
Appointment of a new commander is under consideration, along with the restructuring of the general staff. Earlier last week, a dozen colonels who had been important supporters of military rule were packed off to comfortable posts abroad as military attaches at Haitian embassies.
Diplomats from the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince and aides to President Aristide are screening candidates for the interim force from military and police rosters. The officials are supposed to reject anyone with a history of human rights violations or with a criminal record.
"The notorious need not apply," Maj. Gen. David C. Meade of the Army, commander of the 10th Mountain Division, said in a telephone interview from Haiti.
But other senior American officers have expressed concern over the screening standards.
Gen. Wayne A. Downing, the head of the United States Special Forces Command, which has 1,100 commandos in rural towns across Haiti, told reporters last week: "How do you establish the cut line? That's a good question. How clean do their hands have to be?"
Just determining how many police officers are left is also a difficult question.
Asked how many police officers there are now, Col. Mike Sullivan, commander of the 16th Military Police Brigade, whose M.P.'s are stationed in police buildings, replied: "I've been trying to figure that out myself."
"Some days there might be 20 people show up at a station, some days there might be 50," Colonel Sullivan said. "We've been trying to find their rosters. Some are handwritten, some are typed with written additions. It's not a very well-organized force. It was organized for the top officers, but not for the men."
Raymond W. Kelly, the former New York City Police Commissioner who heads the 1,100-member monitoring force here, was similarly unable to tell how many police officers were still working.
"It's really hard to estimate," Mr. Kelly said. "There is a low attendance on the part of the Haitian police."
On Monday in Port-au-Prince, law enforcement experts from a Justice Department agency will begin training the first 375 candidates for the interim Haitian force. But by late last week, the screening committee had identified only 200 men who qualified, and was rushing to select the rest by the Monday deadline, General Meade said.
The agency, the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program, plans to run nine one-week courses in ethics and human values, with 375 recruits in each class.
Program directors said they needed three weeks to give proper training but had been ordered to condense the curriculum into about six days because of the urgent need to relieve American troops of police duties.
By mid-December, the program hopes to graduate at least 3,000 retrained police officers who can maintain civil order until the new, permanent police force is trained next year.
But some American officials express concern about the interim force's success.
"The official line is that by March they'll have a pretty strong interim force with international monitors, but my personal opinion is that this could be difficult to execute," said a top aide to Mr. Kelly, who is in charge of 1,100 police monitors from 27 countries who will accompany the interim police officers on the beat to guard against human rights abuses.
Creating a credible, effective Haitian police force will be an uphill struggle because uncertainty has prompted many members of the military to disappear, said Robert S. Gelbard, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics Matters, who oversees the interim police operation.
But Mr. Gelbard, a chief advocate of the plan, and other Administration officials insist that they can eventually lure Haitian security forces out of hiding with guaranteed, salaried jobs, a coveted treasure in Haiti's devastated economy.
In addition to the former Haitian police and military, American officials have recruited and trained about 1,200 refugees from the camps at Guantanamo. The recruits, who will be unarmed "public safety trainees," received several days of training in ethics, Haitian criminal law and basic procedures. They will serve as clerks or traffic police.
In Cap-Haitien, about 25 of the trained refugees and 18 interim police officers have divided into five-man teams who began a week ago to conduct two-hour patrols throughout the city of 65,000. They work under the watchful eye of 20 Argentine police trainers, who wear distinctive yellow baseball caps.
In Port-au-Prince, a sprawling city of about a million, 27 two-man Haitian teams began patrols this week with monitors from Bolivia, Argentina, Israel and St. Vincent.
The patrols, made up of trained refugees and members of the existing police and military who stayed at their posts, increased their shifts last week to three eight-hour stints from one six-hour tour. But American soldiers still provide the main firepower to quell any serious disturbances.
Another hopeful sign, Colonel Sullivan said, was an incident several days ago in which the Haitian police led American soldiers to the biggest hidden arms cache they have found so far, a huge pile of heavy weapons hidden behind a false wall in the home of a former supporter of the military regime which was looted by crowds after he fled.
Graduates from the Justice Department training program will be assigned to beats in Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitien and other cities and towns. One indication of how few officers there are now is that while 1,100 police monitors are committed and 600 are actually in Haiti, only 75 were working this week.
"How do you get new people in and train them properly?" General Downing said. "Let's face it, you're not going to train them in a week or 10 days. It's probably going to take six months."
Outside Haiti's two largest cities, General Downing said, the Haitian security forces have a mixed record. In some towns, the police and military have disappeared, leaving Special Forces troops to keep order. But in other communities, the general said, "respected" members of the security forces have operated well-run towns.
What Administration officials and American commanders in Haiti fear most is the possibility that the police program may falter and United States troops may end up keeping order for several months. While the Haitian people cheer American soldiers now, commanders worry that an extended presence could breed resentment, as it did in Somalia.
"There is a window," General Downing said. "There is a time when the good will will start to melt. We're conscious of it, and we're trying to play that card hard. We don't want to be there after that window closes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The disintegration of the Haitian police jeopardizes United States plans for keeping order. A police station in Cite Soleil, a Port-au-Prince slum, lies in ruins after the police fled and Haitians tore it apart last week. (Phillippe Diederich/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Haiti showing location of Cap-Haitien. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); CUBA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); CUBA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLICE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (84%); VETERANS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY BASES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); POLITICS (72%); NAVIES (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (51%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; KIFNER, JOHN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



590 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE WHITE HOUSE;
Rejecting Republican Assertions, Clinton Says Fiscal Memo Is Not Policy Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton struggled today to distance himself from a memorandum, sent to him by his own budget director and leaked to the press, in which a bevy of new taxes and cuts in Medicare and Social Security were listed as "illustrative options" for future economic policy.
The disclosure -- barely two weeks before midterm elections -- stirred glee among Republicans, who immediately asserted that Mr. Clinton was plotting to skirt promises to leave Social Security and Medicare benefits alone. 
 The White House first defended itself with a statement from Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, insisting that the memorandum was but a "catalogue" of proposals from elsewhere, and not a policy document. But tonight in Seattle, the President paused during a weekend of campaigning to offer his personal explanation.
"I do not support cuts in Social Security, and I believe any savings we achieve in the Medicare program should be used in health care," Mr. Clinton said. "That has always been my position. There is nothing in that memo and nothing in the record which should indicate that I have changed my position on these two fundamental issues."
The President said the memorandum arose from internal talks about an imminent report by a Presidential commission headed by Senators Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, and John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri. The panel studied entitlement spending and the Republicans' "Contract with America," a political tract that commits the party to cut taxes while balancing the Federal budget.
The denials did not wash with Republicans, who were given the memorandum by an anonymous Federal worker late last week.
"Hypocrisy is the word that comes to mind, as it occasionally does with this Administration," said William Kristol, who heads a research group called the Project for the Republican Future. Mr. Kristol, an adviser to former Vice President Dan Quayle, said he had given a copy of the memorandum to The Washington Post, which reported on it today.
The Oct. 3 document, from Alice M. Rivlin, the budget director, and entitled "Big Choices," bears the earmarks of a political working paper. Marked "draft" and "for handout and retrieval in meeting," it is written on unmarked white paper.
In it, Ms. Rivlin stated that the decisions made in the 1996 budget preparations that begin this week will be crucial to Mr. Clinton's re-election. And she suggested that officials make difficult decisions soon if they hope either to control the Federal deficit, which is projected to begin rising again in 1996, or to free up additional money for the President's domestic agenda.
The paper outlines an "illustrative range of packages" for the future economic course. They range from continuing present policies and allowing the deficit to rise again, to making a commitment to erase the Federal deficit by the year 2000 -- which, over five years, would require $689 billion in new taxes or spending cuts, or both.
Ms. Rivlin made no recommendations in the memorandum, except to note that two developments this summer had made the need to chart a clear course more urgent.
First, she wrote, the demise of health care legislation leaves the White House without a clear strategy to rein in the deficit. Second, she said, the Republican contract, however hollow and filled with "empty promises" it may appear to the White House, offers voters "attractive-sounding tax cuts" as an alternative to Democratic policies.
"Our attacks on the Republicans for evasiveness about how they would pay for their 'contract' have been effective, but they make it imperative that we continue our established policy of explicit and paid-for proposals," she wrote.
Whether the White House wants to reduce the deficit, finance new initiatives, or both, Ms. Rivlin wrote, budget writers have but three places to find money, none of them attractive.
The first is from new cuts in discretionary spending -- that is, programs like highway building and education aid that, unlike welfare and Medicare, are not mandated by law. "Congressional resistance is strong," she wrote, and a new Congress may decide to cut the discretionary programs that Mr. Clinton prizes most, like the new national service corps.
The second source of money is new taxes. "The anti-government mood probably precludes any general-purpose tax increase," Ms. Rivlin wrote, but some taxes tied to specific purposes -- like a tobacco tax tied to health care changes -- might win support.
The third source, she wrote, is cuts in entitlement programs like Federal retirement benefits, Social Security, Medicare and farm subsidies.
The choices for Medicare, Social Security and other benefit programs, labeled "illustrative entitlement options," are diverse. One is to freeze or reduce annual cost-of-living adjustments, saving $109 billion over five years. Another would save $270 billion by capping most benefit spending except for the cost of new recipients and inflation.
The memorandum ended by stating that the options, from doing nothing to balancing the budget, are "illustrative packages that may serve to start our discussion." Senior officials said they were nothing more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY MEDICARE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIVLIN, ALICE M (DEPUTY DIR); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



591 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2074 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Rebounds From G.M. and I.B.M.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR with JAMES BENNET 

 BODY:
It seemed like two of the world's most troubled companies had finally gotten it right. In hard-won turnarounds, General Motors and I.B.M. were bouncing back from disastrous losses and just about everybody, from customers to investors, was cheering.
But last week, the cheering turned to frightened silence at G.M., when it reported a worrisome loss in its crucial auto business in North America despite soaring sales. Though the company reported an overall profit, the disappointing loss in North America, G.M.'s first in nine months, prompted a panicky stock selloff on Wall Street and doubts throughout corporate America and in dozens of G.M. factory towns whether the renaissance of the world's largest industrial company was in fact on track. 
 Only minutes before the G.M. report, the International Business Machines Corporation announced its financial results, painting a much brighter picture: profit and sales were surprisingly strong and Wall Street was pleased.
The comeback of both companies has been scrutinized around the world not only because of their economic reach -- they directly employ more than 880,000 people in scores of cities and towns -- but also because for generations they have been centers of American ingenuity and industrial might. I.B.M. is the leading patent holder in the world; G.M. leads an industry that accounts for one in eight jobs in the United States.
G.M.'s setback last week suggested a divergence of fates for the two companies. But experts say that G.M.'s problems may actually serve as a cautionary lesson for I.B.M. It also illustrates the travails of reshaping a giant company after years of mismanagement in an economy where the direction has been difficult to predict.
"Six months or nine months from now, I.B.M. could be facing the same kind of hiccup that G.M. is today," said Noel Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan business school. "Trying to transform these big corporations, really making a fundamental change in the way they do things, is very difficult."
Both I.B.M. and G.M., despite its slippage last week, seem to be making steady progress in their recovery drives, experts say. But both have benefited from a pickup in the economy, and both must hurry to get into shape before their markets turn sour.
For G.M., the timing is more closely linked to the general level of economic activity, and the next downturn in the auto business is expected in 1996. I.B.M., for its part, must rush to find new growth as its traditional business in big mainframe computers erodes.
"The jury is still out on both I.B.M. and G.M.," said Michael Hammer, a management consultant in Cambridge, Mass.
To design, make and market Chevrolets and computers are very different undertakings. But there have been some striking similarities in the fundamental changes at both companies.
Both G.M. and I.B.M. squeezed out their chief executives. The new men are tackling issues of cost-cutting, business strategy and corporate culture. At I.B.M. headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., top executives hope to avoid missteps, but they sound prepared for a lengthy, sometimes bumpy road to recovery.
"We've got a long way to go to get this company ticking again," Jerome B. York, the chief financial officer of I.B.M., said in an interview on Friday. "We understand that."
Mr. York has first-hand experience with difficult turnaround efforts. He joined I.B.M. in May 1993, after rising to become the chief financial officer at the Chrysler Corporation.
"I figure we're about three innings -- a third of the way -- into our turnaround," Mr. York said.
At G.M., executives clearly recognize that they have much hard work ahead, especially after last quarter's setback.
"Sometimes you take two steps forward and take one step back," G. Richard Wagoner Jr., president of G.M.'s North American operations, said Friday. In the early going, he said, the No. 1 auto maker benefited from some "quicker hit" savings. Now, as G.M. addresses structural problems in the way it develops cars and trucks, the savings might not be apparent for years. "You don't see the results from one day to the next," Mr. Wagoner said.
 
Starting Fresh With New Chiefs
 In November 1992, G.M. selected John F. Smith Jr., a 30-year company executive, as its president and chief executive after ousting Robert C. Stempel for failing to brake its slide. Though an insider, Mr. Smith, 56, has a reputation within G.M. as a well-traveled general manager. He was an insider more in pedigree than in mentality.
I.B.M. went further afield when it chose Louis V. Gerstner Jr., who was chairman of RJR Nabisco, to take over the troubled computer giant in April 1993. In Mr. Gerstner, 52, the I.B.M. board chose a classic general manager.
Both new chiefs cut costs with abandon. At I.B.M., payroll cuts had been made gradually since 1986, when the company's worldwide employment peaked at 406,000. At the end of 1992, the payroll was down 25 percent to 302,000 workers, with stated plans to trim an additional 25,000 or so. But Mr. Gerstner, working with Mr. York, went much further, trimming more workers and shedding plants and equipment. By the end of this year, the company's payroll is expected to be down to roughly 215,000, about half its high.
The current I.B.M. cost-cutting goal is to reduce annual expenses by about $8 billion by 1996. Last week, Mr. York said I.B.M. had already achieved savings of $5.5 billion a year.
Management experts are skeptical of the long-term benefits of just getting rid of people and plants. Instead, they say, the real benefit comes from making people work more efficiently.
"The heart of changing any big company like I.B.M. and G.M. is transforming the inbred culture -- that is where you get the fundamental improvements and the lasting savings," Mr. Hammer, the consultant, said.
Mr. York said he tried to begin that cultural change when drafting his expense-reduction plans. "You've got to get people looking outside the company at customers and competitors," he said.
So he spent his first three months at I.B.M. setting up eight cost-cutting task forces, involving hundreds of people. Their task was to set targets based on the costs of their most efficient competitors, or "benchmarks."
One result: speeding up the turnover of its computer inventory. In 1993, I.B.M.'s $10 billion inventory of computers turned over, or sold, 2.8 times a year. This year, the inventory is turning over at an annual rate of 3.5 times. "The improvement means roughly $2 billion in savings of cash not tied up financing inventory," Mr. York explained.
 
Trying Hard But Still Behind
 At G.M., Mr. Smith also cut costs by shrinking employment in North America by 74,000, or 23 percent, since 1991. Like I.B.M., the auto company has used the benchmark technique extensively to get some hidebound longtime employees to focus on matching the likes of Toyota in production costs and speed of developing a new model.
G.M. has made some impressive strides. In 1991, the company lost $10.7 billion, before interest and taxes. Last year, by contrast, it made a $362 million profit -- a swing that Fortune magazine hailed a few weeks ago as "GM's $11 Billion Turnaround."
From 1991 to the beginning of 1994, G.M. eliminated $2,800 in costs, before taxes, from every vehicle it manufactured, Harbour & Associates, a Troy, Mich., research firm, estimated.
The bad news for G.M. is that it is still far less efficient than the industry's cost leaders. That explains why Chrysler made an average of $1,000 on every vehicle it sold in the third quarter of this year, while G.M. lost $296.
That quarter is traditionally a soft time for the car makers because it includes summer shutdowns of factories for maintenance and vacations. But with the economy strong, Chrysler reported a $651 million profit, and the Ford Motor Company is expected to announce a profit of up to $1 billion on Wednesday,
The gap between G.M. and its rivals is what worries Wall Street analysts. "If you're not making money when times are good, how are you going to make money when times are bad?" asked Jack V. Kirnan, an analyst for Salomon Brothers.
Quickening the speed of product development and matching product offerings with market demand are also vital goals for recovery at both G.M. and I.B.M. Again, both companies have improved their records, but still have a way to go.
To save time and money in designing and manufacturing cars, G.M. is switching from 12 basic car platforms, or wheelbases, to 5. At the same time, Mr. Smith pushed G.M.'s designers and engineers to create cars that would be easier and less costly to make. The new Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire -- two subcompacts that share the same platform -- are early examples of the change. The new cars take 20.5 hours to assemble, or 40 percent less than the models they replace. G.M. also cut the number of parts used by 29 percent and trimmed the number of suppliers by 40 percent.
Yet G.M. still takes longer to make a Cavalier than Ford takes to make cars at its most efficient plants. And while it is working to close the gap, G.M. still takes about 48 months from initial design to start-up production of a new model. That compares with 36 months for Toyota. At Chrysler, the popular Neon subcompact took 37 months to go from design to production.
And for all the progress at cutting parts and assembly time for the Cavalier, the new model is two years late. It was supposed to be introduced in 1992, but it was delayed because G.M. was short of cash.
The real problem now is that G.M. cannot get the cars produced and out of its Lordstown, Ohio, factory. Like other auto companies, G.M. is trying to equip its factories with more flexible manufacturing systems capable of switching rapidly to produce new models. Unfortunately, it still cannot make such changes smoothly. Last year, the Honda Motor Company began making a new model in three days.
But as the market for small cars surged this summer, G.M. made no Cavaliers or Sunfires for almost two months. Quality problems have continued to slow production. "A couple of times we've turned off the line when we've found something that we didn't like," said Mr. Wagoner, the head of North American operations.
 
Matching Output To Demand
 I.B.M. has had its own design and manufacturing problems -- not with quality but with keeping models and production runs in tune with demand. The problem has been most pronounced in I.B.M.'s personal computer business. Last year, for example, I.B.M. was overly aggressive in forecasting demand for its Value Point line and was saddled with some $700 million in unsold inventory.
This year, it has the opposite problem with a new multimedia personal computer, the Aptiva line, which it introduced to the home market earlier this month. Just as G.M. dealers are clamoring for Cavaliers, computer retailers and consumers cannot get their hands on I.B.M.'s new models.
"I.B.M.'s bureaucracy can't tell the difference between a hot product and a dud," said Seymour Merrin, a consultant in Palo Alto, Calif. Like G.M.'s production bottlenecks with popular cars and trucks, I.B.M. "is going to lose market share," he said.
 
Using Size To Advantage
 Both G.M.'s Mr. Smith and I.B.M.'s Mr. Gerstner have made the strategic decision to stay with the businesses they have and simply run them more efficiently. In Mr. Smith's case, the issue seems to have been more straightforward.
Some analysts have long said that G.M. was simply trying to support too many lookalike brands. Without eliminating a few, like Oldsmobile and Saturn, the company was too cumbersome to be efficient. Mr. Smith has apparently dismissed that argument. Instead, he has concluded that the efficiencies will come mainly in car development and manufacturing.
Mr. Gerstner, too, believes that big companies can be made to work, and that size can be an advantage for I.B.M. Against the advice of some industry consultants, he has kept the company together as an integrated supplier of hardware, software and services.
Many analysts say I.B.M. is still trying to do too many different things. "I.B.M. could just muddle through, but to really thrive it has to set a new standard either in hardware or services," said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "That's the fundamental dilemma it hasn't really come to terms with yet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John F. Smith Jr., president and chief executive of General Motors. (Associated Press); Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chairman and chief executive of I.B.M. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D1); Richard Dziklinski, sales manager of a Chevrolet -Geo dealership in Howell, Mich., stands in a lot that would be filled if he could get the new cars, like the Chevrolet Cavalier, that G.M. has had trouble producing. (Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: shows daily closing stock prices of International Business Machines and General Motors. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D1); "A Tale of Two Revoveries" shows daily stock prices of International Business Machines and General Motors and significant events in their financial history. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (70%); PATENTS (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



592 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Diplomatic Mission on 5-Nation Africa Tour

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MZUZU, Malawi, Oct. 23

 BODY:
With concern growing over possible violence in neighboring Mozambique, a senior American delegation visited this newly democratic country today as part of a five-nation African tour intended to improve peacekeeping on a continent scarred by civil wars and refugee crises.
Officials said the mission, led by Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, was a departure for American diplomacy in Africa, where Washington has decided to increase military cooperation with the growing number of countries that have switched to multiparty democracy after decades of dictatorships. 
 The effort, which centers on providing training, logistical, financial and intelligence aid to the newly democratic countries, is intended to encourage their efforts to contain conflicts in neighboring states. Officials say such conflicts threaten peace and economic development throughout the continent.
"There is no shortage of African countries willing to take part in peacekeeping efforts," Mr. Talbott said in an interview. "But they also come forward to us and say, 'We are developing countries, we have the World Bank and I.M.F. looking over our shoulders, and we don't have the capacity to do it by ourselves.' "
Mr. Talbott said that after civil wars in Somalia and Rwanda, where the United Nations sponsored peacekeeping and the United States provided airlift and other logistical support, Washington was studying the idea of providing C-137 transport planes to a regional organization of southern African countries to help them respond rapidly to crises.
In addition to talks with political leaders in Zimbabwe and Malawi, Mr. Talbott has addressed groups of soldiers and officers, telling them that "as a result of the U.N.'s being overburdened, the international community is in danger of not being able to respond quickly enough to new crises when they occur."
After visiting Malawi, Mr. Talbott's delegation will stop briefly in Zaire before going to Ghana and Ivory Coast.
Ghana, which is head of the West African Economic Community, has played a lead role in mediation efforts in Liberia. Zimbabwe and Malawi have been among the most active African countries in peacekeeping efforts on the continent, playing significant roles in Somalia and Rwanda.
In addition to Rwanda, and neighboring Burundi, where clashes have sent refugees streaming into Zaire, officials in Zimbabwe and Malawi expressed concern over the long civil wars in Liberia and Angola, and worsening political conditions in Africa's most populous country, Nigeria.
But their deepest immediate concern is over the potential for renewed strife in Mozambique, where national elections to be held on Thursday and Friday may seal the end of 20 years of civil war. The conflict has created costly refugee crises and disrupted overland transportation throughout the region.
Efforts to build a national army from the two warring sides have stalled badly, and diplomats have expressed concern over recent statements by Afonso Dhlakama, the former rebel leader, in which he has said that the only way his party can lose is if there is fraud.
International observers, who believe that the governing Frelimo party is the strong favorite in the vote, say Mr. Dhlakama's statements are ominously reminiscent of Angola's rebel leaders, who resumed their civil war after they lost that country's first national elections.
A further element of worry comes from the Association of Demobilized Soldiers, which represents 75,000 fighters from both the rebel and Government armies, and has warned of unrest if its members are not guaranteed jobs by "the politicians."
"We cannot talk about peacekeeping until we have talked about the urgent situation on the ground in Mozambique," said Malawi's Foreign Minister, Edward Bwanali, shortly after meeting here with Mr. Talbott. "After the elections there is the chance that everything will turn out all right. That is our hope, but we fear there could also be a new tragedy."

GRAPHIC: Map of Africa showing location of Malawi. Map of Malawi showing location of Mzuzu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAWI (94%); RWANDA (93%); MOZAMBIQUE (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); GHANA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; MALAWI; AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAWI (94%); RWANDA (93%); MOZAMBIQUE (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); GHANA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: TALBOTT, STROBE (DEPUTY SEC); FRENCH, HOWARD W STROBE TALBOTT (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



593 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: At the U.N., a Drive for Diversity

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 21

 BODY:
In this parliament of 184 nations, there are few who disagree that it is time to make the Security Council, the Western-dominated power center of the United Nations system, look more like the diverse world it serves.
"It is ironic that in the midst of the rapid spread of democracy in recent years and the expanding membership of the United Nations, the Security Council remains unrepresentative in its size and the geographic distribution of its membership, and undemocratic in its decision-making and working methods," Roberto R. Romulo, Foreign Secretary of the Philippines, told the General Assembly recently. 
 Richard Butler, Australia's representative, said in an interview: "It is absolutely clear that the Security Council we have today is yesterday's Security Council. It cannot do the job we need done today and will certainly need in the future."
But how to democratize the Security Council -- whose permanent, veto-wielding members are the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China -- is the hard part. Any expansion would mean intense competition for permanent seats, and many seasoned officials here are doubtful that reform could come quickly.
Japan and Germany, the defeated nations of World War II, are the leading candidates for permanent membership in a body dominated for half a century by the war's victors. But large or increasingly rich developing nations also demand representation, saying that the world has changed too much since 1945 to justify reserving the most powerful seats for the industrialized countries of the global north.
Razali Ismail, Malaysia's chief delegate, said there was a growing estrangement between a few nations that make the big decisions and the others who are often called on to carry them out.
"There are other countries that are, willy-nilly, involved in things the Security Council does, and they want a say," said Mr. Razali, who is a member of a committee studying United Nations reform.
"The major powers are not prepared to put out the adequate number of soldiers for peacekeeping, for example, so they count on us. Malaysia has 2,700 soldiers on various fronts. We are in Somalia, in Angola, in Bosnia. Politically, it is no longer tenable for all of us to supply troops -- to pull the trigger, as it were, for the U.N. -- without having the right to say something about the process of decision making and what peacekeeping is all about."
The feeling of being manipulated by the United States, Britain and France, which have dominated the Security Council's business since the collapse of the Soviet Union, has sharpened recently around the issues of Haiti and Bosnia.
On Haiti, the Clinton Administration pressed and cajoled members to back a July 31 resolution authorizing an American invasion, although several nations had concerns about establishing a precedent for armed intervention to restore democracy. Then, barely two months later and without informing the United Nations, Washington cut a deal with the Haitian military.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the pace and level of United Nations operations have been largely dictated by Britain and France, which some Islamic countries believe are hostile to the Muslim-led Bosnian Government and unwilling to deal harshly with the Serbs who hold nearly three-quarters of the country.
Despite the efforts of Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate, to meet regularly with representatives of smaller nations, Mr. Razali said that "more and more people are concerned about the Security Council acting within its own context and sense of momentum."
The General Assembly, active if ideologically driven in the cold war years -- when it was generally considered a nuisance by Washington -- has been sidelined.
"As the General Assembly has been marginalized in the last two, three years, the developing nations of the south feels their input at the United Nations is almost irrelevant," said Clovis Maksoud, the Arab League's former observer at the United Nations who now heads the Center for the Global South at American University in Washington.
Questions about how to change the Security Council -- how big to make it, who should join it and how broad its functions should be -- are difficult to answer. Almost any significant change in the 15-member body, with the 5 permanent seats held by the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France, and 10 rotating seats representing major regions of the world, would provoke intense competition.
The permanent members are likely fight to keep their powerful positions, especially Britain and France, whose credentials are most frequently challenged by developing nations and former colonies. At the same time, there may be no less of a tussle among the nations of the next rank that would battle each other for the privilege of joining the club.
Jamsheed K. A. Marker, Pakistan's chief delegate, said any reform would have to avoid the appearance of establishing a new set of regional superpowers. In Pakistan's case, that means neighboring India. In other regions there would be similar rivalries.
Diplomats say a reconstituted Council should have no more than 20 to 25 members, perhaps in three rather than the present two categories, with a new group given permanent seats but perhaps no veto power. Discussions are in very early stages.
"At the end of the day we're not sure what will be required to put together a compromise," said Douglas J. Bennet, the Clinton Administration's Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs. He said that President Clinton, while still a candidate, "got the ball rolling" by proposing to add Germany and Japan to the permanent members.
Both countries, already large contributors to the United Nations, could be expected to bear a larger share of the organization's costs, which now fall heavily on the United States. Japan is openly campaigning for a seat, while Germany has been more circumspect though no less interested.
Among the developing nations, Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Mexico and Brazil are considered candidates.
"To have this come out right, one has to come to a conclusion that everybody regards as legitimate," Mr. Bennet told reporters recently. "It takes time to do that. At this point I don't think we've reached that."
But he added: "I am told by old U.N. hands that issues ripen here, and sometimes they ripen very quickly. Who knows, this could be one."
Washington's opinion is critical to the pace of the discussion because the United States has unequaled power to effect or block change. A reorganization of the Council would require amending the United Nations Charter, a decision that would need the backing of not only the General Assembly but also the Security Council itself. The change would also require ratification by national parliaments.
Mr. Butler, the Australian delegate, chairman of the committee organizing the 50th anniversary celebrations of the United Nations and a leader in the campaign to remodel the world forum, has been drawing possible organizational charts to prod some of his colleagues into more concrete discussions. He said the Security Council needed to be considered in a broader reform of the United Nations system "to make it fit for the challenges that we now face in this new period of world politics -- and more than politics, of world development, or lack of development."
"Today's world is beset by economic and social problems that are simply enormous," Mr. Butler said. "Because of interdependence, if they're not addressed, they could spread far beyond the countries where those problems are being experienced in their sharpest form."
"If you want to amend the Charter, you have to have a two-thirds majority in the General Assembly and ratification in national parliaments," he said. "I don't think there would be a two-thirds majority just for adding Germany and Japan. Some of those other big countries from the developing world would successfully argue that it's the wrong response for the quest for making a modern Council simply to add two more countries of the north, industrial giants."
Mr. Razali, the Malaysian delegate, concurs.
"If we get it right, then the Security Council that we will have in the future will be quite different from the one that was put together in 1945," he said. "At that time it was an elite group, the victorious powers as custodians of peace. Now, with all that has taken place, obviously that has to change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Changing times have brought calls to diversify the Security Council, the Western-dominated power center of the United Nations. Stephen Gomersall, the deputy representative of Britain, and Madeleine K. Albright, the representative of the United States, voted at a Security Council meeting on Sept. 29. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); HAITI (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); HAITI (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); WORLD WAR II (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



594 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Rwandans to Receive Loan

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 21

 BODY:
To help ease a financial crisis at Rwanda's diplomatic missions in the United States, the relief group AmeriCares is planning to announce on Monday that it will lend the Rwandans $200,000 free of interest for six months.
The loan will be given "to the people of Rwanda" to be used in any way the Government chooses, said Stephen M. Johnson, the president of AmeriCares, based in New Canaan, Conn. 
 Joseph Mutaboba, Rwanda's charge d'affaires in Washington, said he hoped that this novel approach to relief would become more widely used and added:
"We need the kind of money to buy a computer, a fax, a printer, some paper. You see the kind of needs we have. If we lose our mission electricity and have no fax working, I cannot even contact my Government. We need the kind of help that will get the machinery going."
The plight of Rwandan diplomats in the United States first came to light on Tuesday when the police in New York announced that Rwanda's Acting Foreign Minister, Vianney Jean-Marie Ndagijimana, was missing, along with $187,000 in cash he was supposed to have given to Rwandan diplomats here and in Washington to pay the country's bills. Mr. Ndagijimana appears to have gone to France, but he has not been seen and there has been no news of the money.
Since the Rwandan crisis erupted in April, AmeriCares has flown about 500,000 pounds of mostly medical supplies worth over $11 million for use in refugee camps in Zaire and Tanzania and centers for displaced people in Rwanda. AmeriCares, a nonprofit organization, solicits donations to aid disaster areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RWANDA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICARES (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICARES (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; RWANDA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (67%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (69%); POLICE FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



595 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Advocacy Group Let H.I.V. Go Unchecked in Blood Products for Hemophiliacs

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 23

 BODY:
Executives of the National Hemophilia Foundation understood as early as 1982 that the source of AIDS was probably a blood-borne virus that pharmaceutical companies could eliminate from the blood-clotting medicine routinely given to hemophiliacs, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported today.
But for years, the foundation publicly described the spread of AIDS through such products as unavoidable because of an early lack of knowledge about the spread of the disease, the newspaper reported. 
 Half of America's 20,000 hemophiliacs have been infected with the AIDS virus by tainted clotting factor, a concentrate of blood that stems the uncontrolled bleeding symptomatic of hemophilia, a hereditary condition. About 3,000 hemophiliacs infected in this way have died.
In reaching its conclusions about the foundation, the newspaper cited sworn testimony and documents from a class-action lawsuit that patients and their families filed last year in Federal District Court in Chicago against the foundation, which is based in New York, and four drug companies.
In July 1982, the Federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta reported the first cases among hemophiliacs of what later became known as AIDS.
A doctor with the agency, Bruce Evatt, wrote that month to Louis Aledort, then the foundation's medical co-director, saying the disease was possibly caused by a virus and transmitted through blood.
"Hemophiliacs would be prime candidates to develop this syndrome," Dr. Evatt wrote.
In December 1982, Mr. Aledort asked an advisory committee of the Federal Food and Drug Administration not to require drug firms to neutralize viruses in clotting products by using processes available at the time, the newspaper said. Mr. Aledort said it would make the medicine unaffordable, and the committee did not require the neutralizing steps.
By early 1983, officials in the blood industry were questioning prospective donors of the clotting factor to try to screen out people susceptible to AIDS. A diagnostic test for the disease was not available until nearly two years later.
But in July 1983, Mr. Aledort told the drug agency that "this was not the time for recall" of unscreened clotting products, even though the foundation's board supported such an order. The board recommended monitoring, and the F.D.A. did not order a recall.
In a December 1983 memo, the foundation's executive director, Alan P. Brownstein, expressed concern about the economic harm that a recall would have on the drug industry.
And when hemophiliacs began dying of AIDS, foundation officials publicly opposed filing suits against the drug companies and even testified against patients who did, the newspaper said.
The lawsuit in Chicago asserts that the defendants continued to sell and promote the products even though they knew some blood donors posed a high risk of H.I.V. infection, said David Shrager of Philadelphia, the main lawyer for the plaintiffs.
The companies named in the suit are Rhone-Poulenc Rorer of Collegeville and its subsidiary, the Armour Pharmaceutical Company; Miles Inc. of Pittsburgh; the Baxter Healthcare Corporation of Deerfield, Ill., and the Alpha Therapeutic Corporation of Los Angeles.
Representatives of drug companies said last week that they had responded to the AIDS crisis as quickly as possible at a time when little was known about the disease and how it was spread.
"Because of the great deal of emotion and because of the enormous tragedy, there's a great deal of revisionist history," said Beth Leahy, a spokeswoman for Rhone-Poulenc Rorer. "What may seem clear now was not known then."
Drug companies have won all but 1 of 14 jury trials of lawsuits filed by hemophilia patients or survivors, she said. The 14th case has been appealed.
In the Chicago case, Judge John F. Grady of Federal District Court ruled on Aug. 5 that the issue of negligence could be tried as a class action. A week later, plaintiffs rejected a $160 million settlement offer from Rhone-Poulenc Rorer and from Baxter, the newspaper said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HEMOPHILIA FOUNDATION; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; RHONE-POULENC RORER; ALPHA THERAPEUTIC CORP; BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORP; ARMOUR PHARMACEUTICAL CO RHONE-POULENC RORER PUERTO RICO INC (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER BANGLADESH LTD (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER TURKEY (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER GMBH (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PHILS INC (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER INC (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER AS (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER SA (50%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PAKISTAN LTD (50%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HEMOPHILIA FOUNDATION; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; RHONE-POULENC RORER; ALPHA THERAPEUTIC CORP; BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORP; ARMOUR PHARMACEUTICAL CO CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); HEMOPHILIA; BLOOD; SUITS AND LITIGATION HEMOPHILIA (96%); AIDS & HIV (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); BLOOD BANKS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); BLOOD DONATIONS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (71%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: LOUIS ALEDORT (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



596 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Social Health Is Improving, A Study Says

 BODY:
After three consecutive years of decline, the nation's social health is improving again, social scientists at Fordham University are announcing today in an annual report.
But the researchers report that the social well-being of the nation is still at one of its lowest points in 23 years. 
 The report, titled "The Index of Social Health," seeks to measure the nation's progress in addressing major social problems by analyzing 16 social issues including infant mortality and out-of-pocket health costs for the elderly.
Researchers used a computer model and data gleaned from various Federal agencies, including the Census Bureau, to reduce the nation's social health to a single figure ranging from 0 to 100, which they call the social health index.
The first report, published in 1986, measured social health retrospectively for the year 1970 and gave it a ranking of 73.8. As of 1992, the latest year for which data were available, Fordham's index stood at 40.6.
While that is 45 percent lower than the 1970 figure, it represents an improvement over the 1990 and 1991 rankings, which were 39.4 and 38.8, respectively.
"It's too early to tell if we're on an upswing, but an increase is certainly better than a decline," said Dr. Marc L. Miringoff, the author of the study and the director of the Fordham Institute for Innovation in Social Policy in Tarrytown, N.Y. "Now the question is, will it continue?"
The latest report was the first since 1987 to find 7 of the 16 individual indicator problems improving in a single year: infant mortality, teen-age suicide, high school dropout rates, drug abuse, homicide, food stamp coverage and access to affordable housing.
The problems that worsened were child abuse, unemployment, health insurance coverage, average weekly earnings, poverty among the elderly, health costs for the elderly and the gap between the rich and the poor.
Two problems remained the same: traffic deaths and the number of children being raised in poverty.
Dr. Miringoff offered two explanations for the improved index. For the first time since 1970, three teen-age social problems -- high school dropout rates, suicide and drug abuse -- all improved.
In addition, he said, the social index often rises during Presidential election years.
"We've only had an upswing eight times, and five were in election years," Dr. Miringoff said. "In an election year there is an increase in funding, which seems to confirm the fact that spending does make a difference."
This year the report included a special section that took a closer look at poverty trends among children and the elderly.
Poverty among children has worsened significantly since 1970, with 21 percent of the nation's children living under the poverty line in 1992, the highest level in nine years.
Among the elderly, the trend is more encouraging, with 13 percent of those over the age of 65 living in poverty, a drop of nearly 50 percent since 1970, when the rate was 25 percent.
Dr. Miringoff said the report was the social equivalent to economic indicators like the Consumer Price Index.
"We have nothing like that on the social sphere," he said. "In other words, bells don't go off when the children living below the poverty level goes above 20 percent, which it is. But we really pay a lot of attention when housing starts increase 1 percent."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "HEALTH: Social Health Index" shows the social health index of the nation from 1970 to 1990. (Source: Fordham Institute for Innovation in Social Policy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RESEARCH RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RANKINGS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); INFANT MORTALITY (75%); CHILD ABUSE (75%); AGING (75%); CENSUS (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); WRITERS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (63%); HOMICIDE (63%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



597 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
In Legislative Elections, Choices Are Hard to Find

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
POLITICIANS worry about survival (their own), and ruminate obsessively about the public mood (sour). They blame the economy, or the media, or immigration, or whatever else they can come up with to explain away why so many voters seem to be fed up.
It is not all that complicated. As Cassius might have advised had Shakespeare illumined the 20th century instead of the 16th, try a little introspection. 
 Consider this year's legislative elections. Yes, this is an election year for New York's State Senate and Assembly, but one would hardly know it, given the paucity of captivating races. Challenging incumbents is just too daunting.
"More people die in office than are voted out of office," said Conrad M. Foa, a Democrat and insurance company executive who is making a second try at unseating State Senator Roy M. Goodman, the Manhattan Republican.
Mr. Foa, though frustrated with the lack of what he considers adequate press coverage, remains stubbornly optimistic. But he does not argue with the obvious -- that legislators benefit immeasurably from what Kevin Sack, the Albany bureau chief for The New York Times, once described as "a virtually impenetrable quilt of self-entrenchment."
The Legislature's self-protection system works. Two year ago, 92 percent of legislators seeking re-election won; in 1990, the re-election rate was 98.9 percent. This year, though incumbents are in trouble nationwide, the results will no doubt be similar. And probably not because voters have warm and fuzzy feelings for their state representatives.

 IT'S because the voters have little choice. Most potential challengers don't bother to run, and those who do tend to be outmatched by the advantages of incumbency. The greatest is in fund-raising, since special-interest groups, with their deep pockets, favor incumbents who can thank them with helpful votes. Public campaign financing would weaken that cozy relationship, so most lawmakers oppose it.
Other advantages legislators give to themselves. They see to it that taxpayers pay for self-promoting "newsletters" that contain little news. They hire expert lawyers to redraw district lines after each census -- lines that invariably protect incumbents. And they bring home the pork, which they prefer to call "member items." But pork it is -- grants of money for local groups, from Carnegie Hall to the celebrated Museum of Cheese in Rome, N.Y.
As a recent series of articles in The Syracuse Herald-American reminded readers, legislators routinely spend public dollars on politics, be it paying the salary of a staff photographer or financing those three television studios that churn out self-serving videos of legislators for home consumption.
So well known and amply documented is Albany's incumbency protection program that legislative leaders discuss it without much apology. The 11-part series in The Herald-American barely elicited a defensive shrug from them. Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Speaker of the Assembly, notes that he has made some changes to penetrate the veil of secrecy that cloaks political spending in the Assembly. The Senate's leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Republican, has made a few even more modest concessions. But with the exception of a few mavericks, lawmakers resist the only thing that can break Albany's cozy habits -- a top-to-bottom overhaul.
Legislatures tend to be that way, especially in New York, which used to have plenty of money to throw around; legislators made sure they threw some at each other. Times have changed and the voters clearly know it. Why don't politicians?
Unless maybe they really do, but prefer to keep themselves comfortable as long as they can.
POLITICAL POSTSCRIPT: Speaking of voter disaffection, isn't it interesting how elected officials sometimes provide candid insights into themselves when they are not running for office? Maybe this annoys the public, too.
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, for example, was on his best behavior when running for re-election in 1992. But in this, a non-election year for him, he created a crude scene at last weekend's ground-breaking for New York City's Holocaust memorial because he didn't like his seat. And just last week he advised the Republican candidate for lieutenant governor how to seek Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's support: "You'll make him an offer he can't refuse," he told Elizabeth P. McCaughey.
He ultimately apologized -- after first indignantly denying he ever said any such thing.
Such behavior is familiar to those who have dealt with Mr. D'Amato. There are few political reporters or rival politicians in the state who have not been the target of his undeleted expletives. And more than one woman who has crossed his path has had reason to comment on his lack of, uh, politesse. Now the voters have got a closer look.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (51%); STATE SENATE&ASSEMBLY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE&ASSEMBLY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); REDISTRICTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



598 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CALIFORNIA;
Media-Wise Governor Runs A Smooth Race in California

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA. Calif., Oct. 20

 BODY:
If he had stumbled, it could have been an awkward moment for Gov. Pete Wilson's re-election campaign, but you would never have guessed it. California cool, sound-stage smooth, he gives nothing away; you can no more read his emotions in his face than see through a mirror.
His big issue is illegal immigration. He has dramatized his promises to do something about it by endorsing Proposition 187, a ballot initiative that would require the state's schools, hospitals and other institutions to deny services to illegal immigrants, who come mainly from Mexico. As the proposition has gained strength, so has he, and together they have pulled well ahead in the polls. 
 But Mr. Wilson has always had a lot of trouble with his party's right wing, and this week two leading Republican conservatives, Jack F. Kemp and William J. Bennett, both members of George Bush's Cabinet, denounced the ballot measure, describing it as "fundamentally flawed and constitutionally questionable."
Reporters caught up with the Governor in an aircraft-assembly hangar in Long Beach. Nobody had to tell him it was time to play the Beltway card.
"Those are two guys who have been in Washington too long," he said with his tight, mirthless smile. "Nice guys, but when you spend too much time in an ivory tower, you lose touch with reality. They ought to come out to California and look at the real world."
Sound bite. Next question.
"In a state as large as this," the Governor of the nation's largest state said later on board a private jet, heading north, "people don't have time for a lot of fine points. You have to be crystal clear. We think people are most deeply moved in three areas: crime and immigration -- a real sense of rage about those -- and jobs, which is their broadest, most long-lasting concern. So that's what we hit on, morning, noon and night."
Running a tightly focused, politically adept campaign has helped Mr. Wilson overtake his Democratic rival, Kathleen Brown, the state treasurer, who is the daughter and sister of former governors. So has Ms. Brown's late-starting effort, which has somehow failed to capitalize on this year's anti-incumbent mood, even though she is running against a man who has held public office without a break since he was elected to the Assembly in 1966, a man right up there in Edward M. Kennedy's and Mario M. Cuomo's and Thomas S. Foley's class when it comes to incumbency.
Mr. Wilson's own analysis was dismissive if not condescending.
"In terms of energy and polish, she's fine," the Governor said of his opponent. "But from the voter's standpoint, she's saying the wrong things."
Perhaps. Like President Clinton and other leading Democrats, Ms. Brown is opposed to Proposition 187.
But that would not have mattered much without this year's upturn in the California economy, which for Mr. Wilson could not have come at a better moment. The rising economic tide may not be lifting President Clinton's boat much, but it has floated Mr. Wilson's skiff off the rocks in the last few months.
Four years ago, having won a third solid statewide victory in eight years, Mr. Wilson left the Senate and moved to Sacramento. California's politicians, accustomed by the successes of Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan to setting their sights high, began talking about him as a probable Presidential candidate.
But then came a sharp, sudden economic downturn, driven by trouble in aerospace and real estate. It quickly produced a $14 billion state budget shortfall, to which the Governor responded with a $7 billion tax increase and $5 billion in spending cuts. His approval ratings plunged, and he cut state spending further, admitting that it had been a policy as well as a political error, and a bad one, to raise taxes at a time when the California economy was in the dumps.
By the beginning of this year, the 61-year-old Mr. Wilson's prospects for a second term, let alone a race for national office, seemed close to nil.
That all seems a long time ago now. Then, he felt cornered, and it showed in his defensive explanations. Now, he feels freed, and that shows, too, as he feeds his audiences, stop by stop, day by day, little bits of evidence that California has touched bottom and is on the way back. He sounds like a chamber of commerce news release come to life.
In Anaheim, he tells them that Inc. magazine says, "Twice as many of the 500 fastest-growing entrepreneurial companies are in California as in any other state." In Santa Clara, in the heart of Silicon Valley, he quotes a bank's prediction, quoted in that morning's Wall Street Journal, that the state will grow by about 4.8 percent next year. In Chatsworth, not far from the epicenter of the Los Angeles earthquake, he talks about how many Fortune 500 companies have moved their headquarters here.
At every stop, he praises the people of California, whom he calls "the most innovative and entrepreneurial people the good Lord has ever created."
But he also praises Pete Wilson. What turned things around, he says, is his work in making California a better place to do business. He cites reform of the state's "onerous" workers' compensation laws and the efforts of his bureaucracy-fighting "Red Teams," the expansion of state export-loan guarantees and the enactment of a law allowing a 6 percent tax credit on manufacturing equipment.
Not exactly crowd-rousing items, those, but then he is not exactly speaking to crowds. There is not much glad-handing or other retail campaigning.
This is California, the media state par excellence, and like other candidates here Mr. Wilson usually appears not at rallies but at carefully scripted political mini-events, one-act plays intended to make a single point and planned with an eye to picture possibilities ("Don't get in the shot, don't get in the shot," the advance men cry at every stop when some unruly worker or onlooker strays into the camera's range).
Show business is never far away in California, and the Governor's trip this week was described, on the yellow and black cover of an explanatory document, as "Pete Wilson's Greatest Hits Jobs Tour."
Thus, Tuesday's Chatsworth visit was meant to show, as the Governor likes to say, that "California can compete with South Carolina or Singapore" when it comes to high-tech industry, and indeed the ADC Fibermux plant, which makes circuit boards for computer networks, starred in its assigned role. It looked as spotlessly clean and felt as over air-conditioned as Singapore, and it was staffed largely by Asian-Americans.
At almost every stop, someone stepped up to give Pete Wilson credit for making California government friendlier to business, a partner instead of an adversary. In Long Beach, for example, Dr. Carl Chen, the founder of Advanced Aerodynamics and Structures Inc., the first new American builder of airplanes in decades, said his company had been courted by many states and by countries from South Korea to South Africa, because of its potential for creating jobs.
"Because of Governor Wilson and his reforms, we decided to stay in California," Dr. Chen declared.
Sometimes the little shows are convincing, sometimes less so. In Santa Clara, the occasion was the announcement by Intel, the computer chip maker, that it planned to enlarge its plant here, a project that will cost $500 million and create 300 jobs. Mr. Wilson said this demonstrated once again the company's commitment to California and his Administration's success at cutting red tape.
In fact, Intel has also promised in the last 18 months to build factories costing more than $1 billion in Arizona and New Mexico, choosing those states in part because they offered better tax breaks and lower regulatory hurdles.
The details have nagged a bit at Mr. Wilson on the immigration question, too. Experts on the subject trace part of California's problem to a bill in 1986 that allows illegal immigrants to come here as agricultural workers. Mr. Wilson, then a Senator, had a hand in drafting the measure, but he insists that his version would have forced the illegals to return home after the harvest. That safeguard, he says, was dropped in the bargaining on the bill.
Looking a little like a prep-school teacher in his tweedy clothes, the Governor plows diligently through his arguments: Services to illegal aliens eat up 10 percent of the state's budget; that means fewer computers for schoolrooms and fewer new hospital beds; that is unfair to the people of California, and the Federal Government ought either to seal the border or foot the bill. Whatever else it is, this is a campaign about real issues, unlike many others this year.
On crime, Mr. Wilson takes the high road ("I am privileged to be the first Governor in the nation to sign a three-strikes-and-you're-out bill into law," he said in an Eastman Kodak warehouse in Hollywood) as well as the low. No matter what Ms. Brown says to suggest that she, too, is tough on crime, he tars her with her father's and her brother's aversion to the death penalty and their tolerance of what he terms "our absurdly lenient laws on repeat offenders."
Many of those around him, including contributors, old friends and staff members, fully expect to hear lines like that from the candidate Wilson in the 1996 Presidential campaign. California now casts nearly 10 percent of the votes in the electoral college (and a similar percentage of those at party conventions). Its primary will be early in 1996, not late, making it far more important. A victory for Mr. Wilson would place him in a distinctly strategic position.
But he insists that he will not run. Is that an irrevocable no, a Shermanesque no, a not-even-a-draft no? "It's a no," he said, adding that he was looking forward to serving out a second full four-year term in Sacramento.
He may not mean it, though he reminds people that Mr. Cuomo said, no, and made it stick. If he does shun a White House bid, one reason may be a quirk in California law. Candidates for governor and lieutenant governor run separately, and the clear front-runner for the No. 2 job this time is Gray Davis, a very liberal Democrat who served as chief of staff to Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr.
It is quite possible, Mr. Wilson allowed drily, that the voters would resent a Governor who was elected after a campaign in which he indulged in Brown-bashing only to spend a year or so traipsing around the country, leaving a Brown acolyte in charge back home.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pete Wilson, left, campaigned in San Diego on Friday. He talked with Tracy Santanen, a trainee welder at the National Steel and Shipbuilding Company, and Dick Vortmann, the company's president. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); REFUGEES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: WILSON, PETE (GOV); BROWN, KATHLEEN (TREASURER) TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



599 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN TRAIL;
Case of the Disappearing Running Mate

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
Poor Stan Lundine. Even after eight years as Lieutenant Governor, sometimes it seems that nobody remembers who Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's running mate is.
A brochure promoting Mr. Cuomo's record on women's issues urges New Yorkers to "vote Cuomo/ Burstein," a reference to the Democratic candidate for Attorney General, Karen S. Burstein, who, unlike Mr. Lundine, is a woman. The signs waved at the rally where Mr. Cuomo was endorsed by the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson on Thursday read: "Cuomo/McCall," a reference to the Democratic candidate for State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, who, unlike Mr. Lundine, is black. 
 Apparently, Mr. Lundine's demographics -- he is of Swedish descent and from Jamestown, in the southwestern corner of the state -- do not rate the same attention.
 
Tax-Cutter's Defense
 After criticizing State Senator George E. Pataki for failing to provide complete details about his tax-cutting plans, Mr. Cuomo continues to withhold information about his own. Never caught without a rationale, Mr. Cuomo is providing two alternate defenses for his decision.
The first is the "I'll show you mine when he shows you his" defense, based perhaps on the belief that voters want followers, not leaders. "He's not arguing with me," Mr. Cuomo told reporters last week when asked when more details would be forthcoming. "Why do I have to show any more numbers?"
The Governor's second defense is the "I've done it" defense. He argues that the fact that he and the Legislature enacted an income-tax cut in 1987 is all the proof that should be needed that he can do it again.
"I said I would do it and we did it," he said in Buffalo earlier this month. "You want more details? What's better than that?"
Mr. Cuomo acknowledges that the final phase of the 1987 tax cut has been repeatedly canceled, but says he warned the Legislature at the time that the cut was too deep. He signed the bill, he says, because he was confident his veto would have been overridden.
 
Dueling Endorsements
 Governor Cuomo won the editorial endorsement of Newsday yesterday, gaining a trophy to match the one Mr. Pataki gathered last week from The Daily News.
Newsday said Mr. Cuomo had "never lived up to the high promise of his soaring rhetoric and breathtaking intellect," but it credited him with guiding the state through "the worst economic slump since the Great Depression."
It said it was easy to understand why, after 12 years, many New Yorkers feel it is time for a change. But the paper also praised Mr. Cuomo's "unquestioned integrity, tenacious energy and a burning commitment to do good."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEWSDAY

ORGANIZATION: NEWSDAY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); TAX LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); INCOME TAX (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LUNDINE, STAN N (LT GOV); SACK, KEVIN JESSE JACKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994



600 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Circulation Losses Go On at New York Papers

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
The daily circulation of New York City newspapers is continuing a slide that began more than a year ago, according to new data supplied by the publishers of the four big metropolitan area papers.
In the six-month period that ended Sept. 30, Newsday, The New York Times and The Daily News all saw their average weekday circulations decline from the corresponding period last year. Newsday saw particularly sharp declines in Long Island as well as New York City, with the daily circulation of its New York City edition shrinking by 37,425, or 13 percent, to 230,150. 
 The New York Post, which was in chaos a year ago, recorded a modest increase in daily circulation to 405,300, up from 394,431 in the corresponding period in 1993, reflecting a return to a measure of stability.
The Sunday News showed a circulation gain of 4 percent, to 964,030, the only sign of significant growth among the four papers during the period. Newsday and The Times, meanwhile, lost Sunday circulation; The Post does not have a Sunday edition.
But even with the indications of new stability at The News and The Post, each of the four large New York City area newspapers has a smaller circulation now than it did two years ago, the information from the publishers shows. The combined average Monday-to-Friday circulation of the four papers has slipped more than 150,000, or 4.9 percent, since 1992.
Taken together, the numbers show that newspaper circulation in the country's biggest media market is shrinking again, after it had appeared to be leveling off several years ago.
In interviews, newspaper publishers attributed the falling circulation to lack of consumer confidence, reader resistance to higher newspaper prices and increasing competition from cable television, on-line computer services and other electronic information sources. Even the baseball strike and the lack of riveting news events like the Presidential election were cited as possible explanations.
Whatever the cause, some industry watchers say they worry about signs that newspaper circulation nationally, which was stable in the 1980's, may have begun a new plunge.
"I think it is part of a 50-year trend that has made the newspaper less important in the life of the American family," said Everette E. Dennis, executive director of the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center at Columbia University.
The data from the four New York newspapers provided an advance look at statistics to be released early next month by the Audit Bureau of Circulations, an independent organization that issues circulation reports for the nation's newspapers every six months.
The group's new report is being awaited with special anticipation because the last report, for the six months that ended March 31, showed unexpectedly sharp declines at most large newspapers across the country from the comparable period a year earlier. According to Media Industry Newsletter, a trade publication, 38 of the 60 biggest newspapers in the country, or nearly two-thirds, lost daily circulation.
Some newspaper executives said last year's harsh winter contributed to the broad circulation declines for the six months that ended March 31. But some industry analysts say that even if the speed of the circulation decline slows, there are indications that circulation may be shrinking over the long term.
The rate of circulation decline at The New York Times has slowed from 3.4 percent in the period that ended March 31 to 2.3 percent in the latest period, when the paper's average daily circulation was 1,114,900. The rate of decline of The Times's Sunday circulation of 1,724,700 has also slowed, from 2.4 percent to 1.8 percent.
William L. Pollak, a Times executive vice president, said the newspaper was fighting the circulation declines, though he said The Times's advertising sales force was focusing on such factors as the high income levels and the educational backgrounds of the paper's readers. Mr. Pollak said some of the circulation declines might be related to recent price increases for both home delivery and newsstand purchases.
Still, Mr. Pollak said, The Times's executives see the paper's declining circulation as "bad news" and are hoping that the rate of decline will continue to slow, both locally and nationally.
The publisher of Newsday, Robert M. Johnson, acknowledged that his paper had seen a sharp drop in circulation, affecting even its base on Long Island. The paper's total circulation fell 7.3 percent in the latest six-month period, to 693,556. Newsday's total Sunday circulation fell 5.5 percent, to 779,629, the first time it has been under 800,000 in recent years.
Though a majority of Newsday's losses were inside the New York City limits, Mr. Johnson said the circulation figures did not indicate any weakening in the paper's commitment to build a competitive New York City newspaper.
Mr. Johnson cited three reasons for the circulation declines. He said the paper had intentionally reduced sales at some low-volume newsstands because it was too costly to service those outlets. He said the paper had also been increasing the price paid by readers in an effort to get more revenue from circulation sales, which may have driven away some newspaper buyers.
And Mr. Johnson said unsettled labor relations were a third cause of declining circulation. He said a demand by management that the paper's unions work to lower the paper's labor costs had led to some unhappiness among some of the paper's production workers. The result, he said, is that the newspaper often arrives late to newsstands, reducing sales.
At The Daily News, Fred Drasner, the co-publisher, said the increase in Sunday circulation reflected the returning vitality of his paper. He also noted that the Sunday paper, which costs $1, was the least expensive Sunday paper in the city. The News has also promoted its Sunday paper heavily and added new features, including a full-color television guide.
As for the loss in daily circulation, Mr. Drasner said he believed that consumers were still uncertain of the economy, slowing the number of publications they buy regularly at newsstands. And, he said, there were some signs that the baseball strike had cut into The News's circulation.
At The Post, Martin Singerman, the publisher, said the circulation gain of 10,869 a day in the latest six-month period showed that the newspaper was returning to health, although he said it was still losing money. "In a climate when newspaper circulations are going down," he said, "it speaks for itself."
Mr. Singerman did acknowledge, however, that about 4,000 of that added circulation had been gained on Staten Island, where The Post has increased circulation by cutting its price in half, to 25 cents, in an experiment to attract readers.
The Post's current circulation of 405,300 is still well below its circulation of 437,918 in the corresponding period in 1992, before Rupert Murdoch swooped in to save the paper from extinction.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Mostly Down" shows the average daily circulations for the papers in New York City, six months ended September 30. (Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations, The New York Times, Daily News, New York Post, Newsday)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; NEW YORK POST; NEW YORK NEWSDAY NEWSDAY INC (92%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; NEW YORK POST; NEW YORK NEWSDAY AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PRICES; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEVISION ; CABLE TELEVISION CITIES (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); BASEBALL (50%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM WILLIAM L POLLAK (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1994

 
