

801 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Plight of Puerto Rican Youth

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
Theirs was the first Latino group to settle in New York City in large numbers. Most speak English, and they are United States citizens, entitled to the benefits and security that new immigrants can only dream of.
But by many measures, young Puerto Ricans are faring far worse than the young Dominicans, Mexicans and other Latinos in New York, according to a report to be released on Monday by the Community Service Society of New York, a leading antipoverty group.
Puerto Ricans ages 16 to 24 have the lowest rates of school enrollment and employment, and the highest rates of poverty among Latino New Yorkers. Puerto Rican men are more than twice as likely as their Mexican peers to be out of school and out of the labor force. Puerto Rican women are more likely to be out of school and unemployed than Dominican or Mexican women. 
The findings, culled from the Census Bureau's annual surveys from 2006 to 2008, show that Puerto Rican youth are the most disadvantaged of all comparable groups, including young black men, in New York, the report said.
''We are terribly concerned about the issues facing young Latinos, but particularly young Puerto Ricans,'' said David R. Jones, the society's president and chief executive. ''It's shaping the landscape of New York, and it's happening really quickly.''
Since they began arriving in the city in large numbers in the 1940s, Puerto Ricans have made their mark in many realms, including business, culture and politics. Some of those political leaders -- including Representative Jose E. Serrano, who has represented the South Bronx for two decades, and Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president -- strongly disputed the study's conclusions that Puerto Ricans are any worse off than other Latinos.
''When it comes to Puerto Ricans, there are so many studies that always try to paint the glass as half-empty,'' Mr. Serrano said, though he acknowledged that the group faced unusual challenges. ''Puerto Ricans are American citizens who are treated by a lot of people as if they are not American citizens.''
Others said the new report would come as no surprise to anyone who had tracked statistics over the years.
''We're doing horribly as a community,'' said Angelo Falcon, who was born in Puerto Rico and is the president of the National Institute for Latino Policy, an advocacy group based in New York. ''It's getting worse from the perspective that the problems are not being addressed. They're festering, and it's going into the second and third generation.
''The scary part is that people are not paying attention from outside the community.''
Latinos make up nearly one-third of the city's population between ages 16 and 24, more than any other ethnic group. Puerto Ricans represent 26 percent of that group, while Dominicans make up 29 percent and Mexicans 13 percent.
While Latinos are often viewed as a single bloc, the report considered each group individually. Many of its findings were striking.
Roughly 17 percent of young Puerto Rican men were not in school, employed or looking for work, compared with 9 percent of Dominicans and 8 percent of Mexicans. Of those Latinos born in the United States, only 55 percent of Puerto Rican youth were enrolled in school, compared with 68 percent of Dominicans and 67 percent of Mexicans. Regardless of birthplace, about 33 percent of Puerto Rican families lived below the poverty line, compared with 29 percent of Dominicans and 27 percent of Mexicans.
Experts said there was no simple explanation for the Puerto Rican plight, but they pointed to longstanding discrimination, neglect from government agencies and, curiously, the population's successes.
In recent decades, many Puerto Ricans who have prospered have moved to the suburbs. Those who have remained in poor neighborhoods, like East Harlem and much of the South Bronx, must deal with substandard schools, high unemployment, and serious ailments like diabetes and asthma.
Lazar Treschan, who wrote the report, ''Latino Youth in New York City,'' traced many problems to the troubled areas where many Puerto Ricans live. ''This is the impact of concentrated poverty on a community,'' he said.
Of course, other Latinos live in poor neighborhoods as well, but researchers said a key difference hinged on citizenship and immigration. More than 90 percent of young Puerto Ricans were born in the 50 states, and even those who came from Puerto Rico are not considered immigrants. Many young Dominicans and Mexicans were born in their home countries -- 43 percent and 72 percent, respectively -- and brought the enterprising spirit that is common among new arrivals, Mr. Falcon said.
''There's this entrepreneurial motivation that you see among newer immigrants that Puerto Ricans at this point may not have anymore because they've been, ironically, Americanized,'' he said.
Although Mexicans are the most recent Latino group to come here in large numbers, Mexican men have an employment rate more than three times that of Puerto Rican men, even if many of the jobs they hold are low-paying, according to the report.
Mr. Jones, the Community Service Society president, said his group planned to consult with policy experts and elected officials to discuss possible solutions. ''We're seeing the construct of what New York is going to look like,'' he said. ''If we don't grapple with it, it's going to have some really negative impacts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David R. Jones, the president of an antipoverty group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); MEN (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); POVERTY RATES (73%); CENSUS (72%); POLITICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: JOSE E SERRANO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); PUERTO RICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



802 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Hispanics Cite Bias In Survey

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
More than 6 in 10 Latinos in the United States say discrimination is a ''major problem'' for them, a significant increase in the last three years, according to a survey of Latino attitudes by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group. 
In 2007, the center reported, 54 percent of Latinos said discrimination was a major problem. That year, nearly half of Latinos -- 46 percent -- cited language as the primary cause for that discrimination. In the new survey, 36 percent -- the largest number -- said that immigration status was the leading cause.
The Pew Hispanic Center report comes as Latino voters could play a decisive role in several close midterm races, including the Senate contests in California, Colorado and Nevada, and the governor's race in California.
The nation's largest minority (at 47 million) feels beleaguered by backlash from the polarized debate over immigration in the last year, the survey shows. While 29 percent said the impact of illegal immigration on Hispanics living here had been positive, 31 percent said it had been negative, a sharp increase since 2007.
That year, before the recession started, fully half of Latinos said illegal immigration had had a positive impact on those already in this country. Still, 86 percent of Latinos support legislation to open a path to citizenship for an estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants if they pay fines, pass background checks and have jobs. About four in five illegal immigrants are Latino, the Pew center has estimated.
According to the report, 51 percent of Latinos have more confidence in the Democratic Party on immigration issues, while 19 percent trust the Republicans more. But the top issue for Latinos these days is education, with immigration their fourth priority.
The vast majority, 79 percent, oppose the law aimed at curbing illegal immigration passed in Arizona, while 78 percent oppose repealing the birthright citizenship clauses of the Constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (55%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



803 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Cloud Threatens Courthouse Renovations

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
At the Lynn County Courthouse in the West Texas town of Tahoka, the spiral staircase -- where the sheriff used to lead inmates from cramped top-floor cells to the courtroom -- is closed off. The wooden courtroom chairs, with rods underneath the seats for men to hang their cowboy hats, are gathering dust. 
The building, which dates to 1916, is one of 15 courthouses around Texas for which officials hope to soon receive renovation financing from the state government. Since a popular program was established in 1999, the state has already awarded $227 million to fix up historic courthouses, a few of which even predate the Civil War. But advocates of the program fear that financing will be slashed next spring when lawmakers confront a budget shortfall that could be as much as $25 billion.
''With the deficit we've got, I don't know -- I'm worried,'' said H. G. Franklin, the Lynn County judge, who is seeking about $5 million from the state for his courthouse.
The renovations are intended to modernize the buildings' systems as well as to restore the original architecture. Electrical wiring is a priority. (Part of the impetus to start the program was a suspected electrical fire in 1993 that destroyed the Hill County Courthouse, a Late Victorian building built in 1890.)
Security, asbestos removal, handicapped access and more energy-efficient lighting and windows are also on the agenda, said Stanley O. Graves, the director of the courthouse program at the Texas Historical Commission.
While fixing up the structures, workers have sometimes found old artwork or other historic features. At the Red River County Courthouse in Clarksville, opened in 1885, workers removing paint from the walls discovered gold-leaf stenciling above the judge's bench that read, ''Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness.''
''There have been lots of stories about things being uncovered,'' Mr. Graves said.
Once a courthouse has been spruced up, he said, it also often draws businesses back to the downtown area.
The state does not shoulder the entire financial burden of repairs. Counties provide at least 15 percent of the cost, and outside groups may help. (Counties also spend $20,000 to $100,000 to draft renovation plans, Mr. Graves said. The Lynn County Courthouse is one of 15 that will have completed submissions in time for the next round of financing, and many more counties have yet to submit proposals.)
But the amount of state financing could decrease. In 2009, the courthouse preservation program received $20 million for two years out of a total request of $80 million. Next year, aware of the looming shortfall, Mr. Graves's group is asking for only $20 million for the courthouses over two years, although he said that was much less than what was needed.
In the meantime, other states have taken notice of Texas' program. Five years ago, Mr. Graves met with Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, who expressed interest in developing something similar. Other states that have sought information on courthouse renovation include Georgia, Illinois and Oklahoma -- though the current economy makes it harder to start new programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); JUDGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (76%); HISTORY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (65%); FIRES (65%); DISABLED ACCESS (51%); ASBESTOS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



804 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo's Running Mate, Often in the Background, Fills a Quiet but Scrappy Role

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. -- The 6-foot-5-inch, 225-pound man behind Andrew M. Cuomo emerged from a black Chevrolet here to a crowd of puzzled looks. He stood to the side, gazing at the ground and fiddling with his sleeves as Mr. Cuomo basked in the attention of cameras.
Was he a bodyguard? An adviser? A retired basketball star?
That he was pretty much invisible was something that Robert J. Duffy, the mild-mannered mayor of Rochester and Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor, was used to. He makes a habit of keeping a distance at campaign rallies, playing a subdued sidekick to his high-profile running mate. 
But behind the scenes, Mr. Duffy has become an intensely loyal confidant of Mr. Cuomo, the Democratic nominee for governor, who has relied on him to throw many of the campaign's punches.
It is an unnatural role for Mr. Duffy, a former police chief who avoids profanity and whose guiltiest pleasure is an extra shot of espresso in his hazelnut latte.
''I've never been driven by ego,'' Mr. Duffy, 56, said in a recent interview. ''I've never been a political opportunist.''
His inconspicuous role on the campaign trail may be fitting, given that Mr. Duffy, if elected, would occupy an office that carries little public recognition or respect. And while that has been historically true, the state's No. 2 post was thrust into the spotlight in 2008, when Eliot Spitzer's sudden resignation made David A. Paterson the chief executive.
Mr. Cuomo has said he plans to reinvent the role of lieutenant governor by giving Mr. Duffy direct oversight over several initiatives, like restarting the long-faltering upstate economy and reducing the size of government.
Mr. Duffy, a boss for much of his career, said he was comfortable serving as deputy to a man he calls a ''soul mate.'' He could not recall a time when the two men had disagreed.
''I would not have accepted this had it been the job that some had perceived it to be in the past,'' he said. ''I really felt that we were so in sync.''
Mr. Duffy, a native of Rochester, never intended to be a politician. His mother was at one time a Roman Catholic nun before she married his father, a payroll manager -- a family secret that Mr. Duffy did not learn until recently. ''A family trait is that we can all keep a secret,'' he joked.
Mr. Duffy had dreams of becoming a teacher and a coach. He was a basketball fanatic, known to his high school teammates as Duff and feared for his knife-sharp elbows.
Mr. Duffy entered the Rochester police force at age 22, drawn to the work of helping people solve problems. He said he rose quickly through the ranks, cementing his reputation in 1990 after he was given the unpopular task of investigating accusations of abuse against his fellow officers.
In 1998, Mr. Duffy was named chief of police by the mayor, and he seemed content to finish his career atop the police force. In 2003, responding to suggestions that he run for office, he told The Rochester Democrat and Chronicle that politics was not a ''system I would thrive in.''
But the next year, a group of friends invited him to dinner and sprang the question: Why not run for mayor?
Mr. Duffy was skeptical of the backroom deals that seemed standard fare in politics. But after his friends commissioned a poll showing his approval ratings near 90 percent, he reconsidered his options.
He won the 2005 mayoral race with a promise to reduce Rochester's pervasive violence and revamp the city's educational system. Four years later, he was so popular that he ran for re-election unopposed.
Mr. Duffy found himself leading a city with more per-capita murders, high school dropouts and children living in poverty than any other in the state. The city's budget deficit was more than $32 million.
Mr. Duffy set out to close the gap by reining in rising personnel costs. His efforts made him enemies in the unions, which portrayed him as a headstrong leader with little interest in collaboration.
''Too often, his message is 'get on this train or get run over,' '' said Adam Urbanski, the longtime president of the Rochester teachers' union, who endorsed Mr. Duffy in 2005 and considers him a friend. ''He sometimes leaps before looking.''
Mr. Duffy clashed with the teachers' union over an effort to wrest control of city schools from the school board. As a candidate in 2005, he opposed mayoral control, telling the union it ''creates more divisiveness, more infighting, more confusion.''
But last year, when aides to Governor Paterson asked if Mr. Duffy would be interested in pursuing mayoral control, he shifted course. Community leaders said they were taken aback by his reversal and felt shut out of the decision-making process.
''I could not believe it,'' said Howard J. Eagle, a parent advocate and retired teacher. ''I felt deceived.''
Mr. Duffy said his views evolved when he realized how little influence the mayor had over school budgets and how difficult it was to bring about change from the outside.
''I don't flip-flop,'' he said, adding that he does not always consult as widely as he would like.
Critics say Mr. Duffy has not done enough to reduce crime. While the number of homicides fell to 28 last year, the lowest level in a decade, it has climbed to 39 so far this year.
Mr. Duffy said there was much work to do, but he said he was confident that by improving high school graduation rates, crime would fall more substantially.
Mr. Cuomo has said he hopes Mr. Duffy can replicate some of his successes in crime and education on a broader scale. He has pledged not to ''trivialize'' the role of the lieutenant governor.
''It becomes a function of the chemistry and the relationship between the two people,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
Mr. Duffy's greatest advantage may be his skill as an ambassador to upstate New Yorkers, who seem to warm up to him in an instant and clamor for a pat on the back or the chance to talk about all the money ''heading south.''
If the campaign is any indication, Mr. Cuomo may lean on Mr. Duffy to do some of his hand-to-hand political fighting in Albany.
Mr. Duffy has been deployed as an attack dog against Carl P. Paladino, the Republican nominee for governor. He has derided Mr. Paladino for ''living in a glass house and swinging baseball bats,'' and at one point he suggested he was lying about his personal finances.
For a candidate more accustomed to writing thank-you notes than delivering diatribes, the evolution has been noticeable. ''I do not have a bad temper,'' Mr. Duffy said. ''I'm not prone to losing control.''
Still, Mr. Duffy said he was ready to confront the hardball politics of Albany. He said his experiences as a police officer had taught him to be unafraid.
''I love to be underestimated, I love to be told what I can't accomplish,'' Mr. Duffy said. ''My mother had a saying that I always loved: 'Never interpret kindness for weakness.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert J. Duffy, center, the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor of New York, with Andrew M. Cuomo this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Duffy, wearing No. 22, in his senior-year varsity basketball yearbook photograph at the Aquinas Institute of Rochester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE AQUINAS INSTITUTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BASKETBALL (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



805 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: A Need to Improve in Science, Math ...

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I read your Oct. 26 editorial ''48th Is Not a Good Place'' with great interest. I agree that improving science, technology, engineering and math education is critical to maintaining our scientific and economic leadership.
We need not only to continue to produce the world's best scientists and engineers, but also to ensure that every student is prepared for the highly technical, high-paying jobs of the future. 
I also agree that Congress does have an important role to play, but rather than stopping there, I offer that the path forward is clear: the Senate needs to approve the reauthorization of the America Competes Act.
The legislation incorporates the recommendations from the National Academies' ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm'' report that you mentioned; it passed by huge margins in 2007 but expired at the end of last month. The reauthorization passed the House in May with bipartisan support and now awaits Senate action.
I am hopeful that this noncontroversial legislation will be approved when Congress returns after the election, but given the environment, no one should take anything for granted. The clock is ticking, the Senate calendar is filling up, and we are facing challenges on a number of fronts.
I strongly encourage all who care about improving science, technology, engineering and math education in this country -- including The New York Times -- to call on the Senate to pass America Competes.
Bart Gordon Chairman, House Committee on Science and Technology Washington, Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
There is indeed a crisis in what's come to be known as STEM education -- science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
Recently, an impressive array of groups met in Washington to find new ways to reverse this trend. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers has joined many others to advocate for stronger public policy, increased numbers of volunteers working with local educators, and improved career guidance and curricular materials.
We must address this issue comprehensively if we are to inspire the next generation to take up the engineering profession as an ideal way to help make the world a better place.
The field of engineering has the potential to unlock students' imaginations and to make their abstract science and math lessons come to life. In the words of the great engineer and innovator Theodore von Karman, ''Scientists discover the world that exists; engineers create the world that never was.''
Thomas Loughlin Executive Director, American Society of Mechanical Engineers New York, Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
As a scientist (Ph.D., molecular biology) and an inventor (several patents) who works at a biotech startup, I think that your idea that there is something wrong with having half of all patents in the United States awarded to foreign companies, and that we can do something about that, is just silly nostalgia.
The post-World War II era of United States dominance is as over and dead as the Ottoman Empire; nothing will bring it back. We have to learn to live with the fact that universities and companies in other countries are just as innovative as we are, and, since there are a lot of people in Europe and China and India, a substantial fraction of cutting-edge research will occur overseas.
Also, I disagree that American science education is bad; it is education for the poor that is bad. In wealthy suburbs like Newton, Mass., the quality and rigor of the middle- and high-school science classes is world-class (the 10th-grade honors chemistry textbook in the Newton school system is at a higher level than my college textbook).
Ezra S. Abrams Newton, Mass., Oct. 26, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREG MABLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PATENTS (77%); APPROVALS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BIOCHEMISTRY (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BART GORDON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



806 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
RABIN'S SUPPORTERS
See Legacy Slipping Away
In the 15 years since Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated by a Jewish militant after a peace rally in Tel Aviv, his legacy in Israel has seemed clear -- warrior turned peacemaker, symbol of a tough nation with an outstretched hand. But a debate has emerged over his symbolization of peace. PAGE A4
GIRLS EXECUTED IN SOMALIA 
Somalia's most powerful Islamist insurgents, the Shabab, executed two teenage girls after deciding they were spies, setting off fears among residents, officials and witnesses said. PAGE A4
SPY CHIEF GOES PUBLIC
The head of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service, Sir John Sawers, delivered what he said was the first public address by a serving chief of the agency in its 101-year history. He devoted much of his 30-minute address to the central role of secrecy in maintaining national security.
PAGE A6
PROTESTS IN FRANCE SHRINK
Several hundred thousand people demonstrated again to protest changes in France's retirement age, but the numbers were down significantly from previous national days of protest, and it appeared that President Nicolas Sarkozy and his government had won an important victory. PAGE A8
HEZBOLLAH ISSUES WARNING
The leader of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah, issued a stern warning against any cooperation with the international tribunal investigating the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, putting new pressure on Lebanon's fragile coalition government. PAGE A11
Civilians Caught in Drug Trade A8
New York
POLICE LEADER DIDN'T REPORT
Help With Club Dues
Raymond W. Kelly, New York's police commissioner, has had some or all of his expenses at the Harvard Club, an exclusive club for Harvard graduates, paid by the New York City Police Foundation. The practice is lawful, but a spokesman said that Mr. Kelly did not report the foundation's payment of the annual dues -- about $1,500 -- as well as other expenses on his financial disclosure forms required by the city's Conflicts of Interest Board. PAGE A19
FEW WOMEN IN INNER CIRCLES
In the race for New York governor, women are suddenly popping up everywhere -- everywhere, that is, except inside the campaigns' inner circles. PAGE A20
Business
BUSINESS JOINS CHARITY,
But Problems Ensue
Some social enterprise organizations adhere to a hybrid model that marries a profit-making business to a nonprofit organization. But this model for nonprofits is proving problematic. PAGE B1
A.I.G. LOSSES HIDDEN
The United States Treasury concealed $40 billion in likely taxpayer losses on the bailout of the American International Group this month, when it abandoned its usual method for valuing investments, according to a report by the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. PAGE B1
Business
AS SOLAR POWER PLANS RISE,
Potential Hurdles Loom
The long-promised building boom for solar power plants in the desert Southwest is finally under way. But this first wave may be the last for a long time. Without continued government incentives that reduce the risks to investors, solar companies may not be able to raise enough capital to proceed. PAGE B1
VERIZON SETTLES COMPLAINT
Verizon Wireless, the nation's largest mobile phone carrier, will pay $25 million to end an investigation into complaints that it charged 15 million cellphone customers unauthorized data fees over the last three years, the Federal Communications Commission announced. PAGE B1
THRIVING IN WEAK ECONOMY
The Blackstone Group and the Carlyle Group showed that the private equity industry is thriving amid a weak economy -- but they did so in nearly opposing ways. PAGE B1
Weekend
THIS TIME, THE ANGEL
Is in the Details
The revival of ''Angels in America'' by the Signature Theater Company in a production feels cozier, more accessible and less startling than it did when it opened in New York 17 years ago, Ben Brantley writes. PAGE C1
HOUDINI AS ART MUSE
Find out how magical it is to turn yourself from Ehrich Weiss into Harry Houdini with the new exhibition ''Houdini: Art and Magic,'' which is so deftly managed and theatrically displayed, you may not even realize how many balls are being kept in the air, Edward Rothstein writes. PAGE C21
Sports
BINGHAMTON COACH GETS $1.2 MILLION TO RESIGN
The tumultuous tenure of Kevin Broadus, the coach who oversaw the Binghamton basketball program's first N.C.A.A. tournament berth and also its subsequent implosion, has ended. The university announced that Broadus received a $1.2 million settlement to resign. PAGE B14
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A31
David Brooks PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (62%); POWER PLANTS (60%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



807 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: For Daimler, A Big Jump In Both Profit And Revenue

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, on Thursday reported a third-quarter net profit that handily beat market expectations and said it was raising its 2010 forecasts. 
The profit of 1.6 billion euros, or $2.2 billion, compared with 56 million euros in the year-earlier period, when sales were depressed by the financial crisis and recession. It also beat the roughly 1.1 billion euro profit expected by analysts, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
The company credited strong sales of Mercedes cars in China and in the United States, as well as exchange rate gains. Results were helped by one-time gains of 183 million euros from an accounting adjustment at its Daimler Trucks North America unit and 218 million euros from a lawsuit.
The automaker, based in Stuttgart, said revenue rose 30 percent, to 25.1 billion euros. Unit sales rose 23 percent, to 475,100 vehicles worldwide. Revenue at Mercedes-Benz rose 33 percent, to 13.7 billion euros, while the Daimler Trucks revenue rose 47 percent, to 6.4 billion euros.
Daimler also raised its forecast for earnings before interest and taxes to more than 7 billion euros from its earlier forecast of 6 billion euros.
''Of course, the world economy is not yet as stable as it was before the recession, but we are confident that we will continue to operate successfully in our markets,'' Dieter Zetsche, Daimler's chief executive, said in a statement.
Daimler's German rival Volkswagen, the largest European automaker, said Wednesday that its net profit rose to 2.1 billion euros in the July to September period, from the 161 million euros in the period a year earlier. Revenue jumped 18 percent, to 30.7 billion euros.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EBITDA (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



808 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: Ready, Set, Auction Hop: The Houses Are Open

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
THE New York City Marathon isn't the only race this town is bracing for. The beginning of November is also the start of the fall auction season, that twice-yearly endurance test when collectors and dealers from all over the world arrive here with comfortable (though fashionable) shoes to see and perhaps buy a painting, a drawing or a sculpture at the important Impressionist, Modern and contemporary art auctions.
But before the big nights, the walls of Sotheby's, Christie's and Phillips de Pury & Company will be filled with multimillion-dollar Monets and Modiglianis, Warhols and Lichtensteins, the pages of the sale catalogs come to life. Viewings at these auction houses begin this weekend and are open to everyone, not just the art elite. Some say they are the best free art shows around. Although there are no $100-million-plus Picassos to ogle, as there were six months ago, there is still a lot of good art to see, and much of it will disappear into private collections, never to be shown in public again for decades, if ever. 
Art isn't the only attraction, either. There is also colorful people-watching. Although the super-rich often inspect the offerings at invitation-only lunches, dinners and cocktail parties, many can be spotted this weekend at the viewings. They return with friends, family or art advisers in tow, to take the pulse of the market and to size up the competition.
It's also fun to watch the confused auction house employees as they puzzle over whether a shoddily dressed man is penniless or the owner of a Warhol that he bought for a few hundred dollars when the canvas was still wet. (Let us not forget, postmen and owners of a fleet of taxi cabs have been among this country's greatest art collectors.)
Want to sound like an insider? Auction house experts are generally tight-lipped when it comes to divulging where much of this art comes from, but those in the know are already whispering: one of Lichtenstein's classic comic-book images is being sold by the Las Vegas casino owner Stephen A. Wynn; a 1938 Miro belongs to Henry Kravis, the Manhattan financier, and his wife, Marie-Josee; a seminal canvas by Francis Bacon was a gift from the artist to his longtime doctor; the hedge fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen is said to have once owned a 1995 painting by John Currin; and the newsprint magnate Peter Brant is reported to be selling a 2007 painting by Jeff Koons. It is unlikely that Mr. Wynn will make an appearance this weekend, but not at all unusual to spot the others strolling around the galleries, including Mr. Brant and his wife, Stephanie Seymour, back together again.
In putting together these sales, experts were mindful of today's conservative mood. ''It's still an uncertain economic climate, and you have to back the right horses,'' said Simon Shaw, who runs Sotheby's Impressionist and Modern art department in New York. ''We've been very careful to keep estimates low.''
Mr. Shaw and experts at all the auction houses say they have stuck to safe, blue-chip works and tried to price them attractively. Even when it comes to contemporary art, the works are by names -- like Cady Noland, Urs Fischer or Matthew Day Jackson -- that already have a wide collecting base.
''Every artist has a proven track record,'' said Brett Gorvy, one of the experts who runs Christie's postwar and contemporary art department worldwide.
The auction houses are being careful when it comes to financing, too. While some have given sellers guarantees -- undisclosed sums promised regardless of the outcome of the sale -- they have often been provided by a third party, making them a less risky proposition for the auction houses.
But if there is one overriding message to be gleaned this season it is that Pop Art is hotter than ever. Every auction house is featuring at least one Warhol dating from his prime -- the 1960s -- and some are expected to fetch more than $30 million each. There are classic images of Campbell's soup cans and Coca-Cola bottles, as well as of celebrities. ''Men in Her Life,'' for example, is a silk-screen of a photograph of Elizabeth Taylor with her third husband, Mike Todd, and her soon-to-be fourth husband, Eddie Fisher, with his wife at the time, Debbie Reynolds.
Just a year ago, when the art market was suffering along with the worldwide economy, ''200 One Dollar Bills,'' a 1962 Warhol painting, brought $43.7 million (including the fees the auction house charges buyers), more than three times its $12 million high estimate.
''Nobody knew in that climate there was a $40 million painting out there,'' said Tobias Meyer, head of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide, who noted that the rash of Warhols on the market this season was a matter both of collectors' timely deaths and of sellers' seeing dollar signs. ''That was the moment when collectors started to realize that art is perhaps their most stable asset.''
Some Warhols come from estates: the heirs of Robert Shapazian, a Los Angeles art dealer who died in June, are selling a group of works that includes two Brillo boxes and a soup can painting at Christie's on Nov. 10. Others are being sold by collectors hoping to capitalize on Warhol's popularity among newly rich collectors.
''He's an artist with global appeal,'' Mr. Meyer said.
Global is a word heard often this fall because experts are betting that the big buyers will be from Asia, the Middle East and Russia, home to recently created pockets of enormous wealth. (European collectors may find New York prices too expensive, depending on fluctuations in the exchange rate.) These relatively green collectors want what they consider trophies: recognizable images that are easy to understand and that scream expensive.
The Pop masters certainly fit these requirements. Besides Warhol, several seminal paintings by Lichtenstein are for sale, among them Mr. Wynn's ''Ohhh ... Alright ...,'' showing a woman clutching a telephone. It is expected to bring $40 million at Christie's, $10 million less than New York dealers like William Acquavella were trying to get for it just a few months ago.
Phillips de Pury & Company, the upstart boutique, is hoping to give Sotheby's and Christie's stiff competition this season. To inaugurate its new space on Park Avenue and 57th Street, it has started Carte Blanche, an initiative in which an art world bigwig -- in this case Philippe Segalot, formerly an expert at Christie's and now a private dealer -- will put together one sale.
Mr. Segalot has managed to get 33 high-profile works, topped by Warhol's ''Men in Her Life,'' which is expected to bring $50 million at the sale, on Nov. 8. That canvas is being sold by the Mugrabis, a family of Manhattan dealers known for their vast holdings of Warhols.
The Phillips sale also features several other rarities, like Cindy Sherman's ''Untitled #153,'' a 1985 image of the artist lying in the grass, as if she were dead. The photo, which is estimated at $2 million to $3 million, is from an edition of six, and the other five prints are in museum collections. This may be the last chance to see it on the open market.
Another highly competitive area is estate material, and Christie's won two significant prizes: the Shapazian collection and that of Max Palevsky, a founder of Intel, who died in May. His works include a 1921 painting by Leger, ''The Cup of Tea,'' which is expected to bring $8 million to $12 million on Wednesday night.
How those estates wound up with Christie's depends on whom you ask. Experts there cite relationships with the heirs; competitors insist it is because Christie's agreed to give a large percentage of the buyer's fees back to the sellers, thereby sacrificing profit for market share. Christie's has acknowledged that it is giving some percentage back but declined to give specific numbers.
This season both Sotheby's and Christie's have their share of pretty Impressionist paintings, but unlike a few of the contemporary works, none are the irreplaceable kind. At Christie's on Wednesday, for example, there is one of Matisse's monumental bronze backs. This one is expected to bring $25 million to $35 million.
The star of the Sotheby's auction on Tuesday night is a Modigliani nude. But ''Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman),'' a 1917 portrait, was on the block before, at Sotheby's in 1999, when it sold for $16.7 million, an auction record for Modigliani at the time. Now it is expected to bring more than $40 million.
As Mr. Shaw of Sotheby's put it, ''This is a masterpiece market.''
WHERE THE LOOKING IS ALWAYS FREE
Viewing hours vary by day and auction house. Usually the viewing ends the morning of the sale, but Web sites should have the details.
CHRISTIE'S 20 Rockefeller Plaza (49th Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas). Impressionist and Modern art viewings, Friday through Wednesday morning; postwar and contemporary art viewings, Nov. 6-10 (morning); (212) 636-2000, christies.com.
SOTHEBY'S 1334 York Avenue, at 72nd Street, Manhattan. Impressionist and Modern art viewings, Friday through Tuesday morning; postwar and contemporary art viewings, Nov. 5-9 (morning); (212) 606-7000, sothebys.com.
PHILLIPS DE PURY & COMPANY 450 Park Avenue, at 57th Street. Contemporary art viewings, Saturday through Nov. 7 (sale Nov. 8); (212) 940-1200, phillipsdepury.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dollar Sign from 1981, one of the Warhols at Christie's from the estate of Robert Shapazian. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21)
Ohhh . . . Alright . . .:
A 1964 Lichtenstein at Christie's on Nov. 10. Estimate: around $40 million. Back story: Dealers offered it for sale at a higher price before it went to auction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S)
Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman): A 1917 Modigliani at Sotheby's on Tuesday. Estimate: More than $40 million. Back story: In 1999 it sold for $16.7 million, at the time an auction record for the artist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S)
Gibbet A 1993-94 work by Cady Noland at Sotheby's on Nov. 9. Estimate: $600,000 to $800,000. Back story: Few contemporary works are on the block this season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S)
Untitled #153: A 1985 self-portrait by Cindy Sherman at Phillips de Pury on Nov. 8. Estimate: $2 million to $3 million. Back story: Another image from this edition is unlikely to come up for sale again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPS DE PURY & COMPANY)
 The Cup of Tea: A 1921 Leger at Christie's on Wednesday. Estimate: $8 million to $12 million Back story: Part of one collection for decades, it is considered fresh to the market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) (C32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); MARATHONS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CASINOS (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (55%); HENRY KRAVIS (50%); RICK PERRY (50%); STEPHEN A WYNN (50%); STEVEN COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010



809 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Leadership and Leitkultur

BYLINE: By JURGEN HABERMAS. 
Jurgen Habermas, a professor emeritus of philosophy at Goethe University in Frankfurt, is the author, most recently, of ''Europe: The Faltering Project.'' This essay was translated by Ciaran P. Cornin from the German.

 BODY:
Frankfurt
SINCE the end of August Germany has been roiled by waves of political turmoil over integration, multiculturalism and the role of the ''Leitkultur,'' or guiding national culture. This discourse is in turn reinforcing trends toward increasing xenophobia among the broader population.
These trends have been apparent for many years in studies and survey data that show a quiet but growing hostility to immigrants. Yet it is as though they have only now found a voice: the usual stereotypes are being flushed out of the bars and onto the talk shows, and they are echoed by mainstream politicians who want to capture potential voters who are otherwise drifting off toward the right. Two events have given rise to a mixture of emotions that are no longer easy to locate on the scale from left to right -- a book by a board member of Germany's central bank and a recent speech by the German president. 
It all began with the advance release of provocative excerpts from ''Germany Does Away With Itself,'' a book that argues that the future of Germany is threatened by the wrong kind of immigrants, especially from Muslim countries. In the book, Thilo Sarrazin, a politician from the Social Democratic Party who sat on the Bundesbank board, develops proposals for demographic policies aimed at the Muslim population in Germany. He fuels discrimination against this minority with intelligence research from which he draws false biological conclusions that have gained unusually wide publicity.
In sharp contrast to the initial spontaneous objections from major politicians, these theses have gained popular support. One poll found that more than a third of Germans agreed with Mr. Sarrazin's prognosis that Germany was becoming ''naturally more stupid on average'' as a result of immigration from Muslim countries.
After half-hearted responses in the press by a handful of psychologists who left the impression that there might be something to these claims after all, there was a certain shift in mood in the news media and among politicians toward Mr. Sarrazin. It took several weeks for Armin Nassehi, a respected sociologist, to take the pseudoscientific interpretation of the relevant statistics apart in a newspaper article. He demonstrated that Mr. Sarrazin adopted the kind of ''naturalizing'' interpretation of measured differences in intelligence that had already been scientifically discredited in the United States decades ago.
But this de-emotionalizing introduction of objectivity into the discussion came too late. The poison that Mr. Sarrazin had released by reinforcing cultural hostility to immigrants with genetic arguments seemed to have taken root in popular prejudices. When Mr. Nassehi and Mr. Sarrazin appeared at the House of Literature in Munich, a mob atmosphere developed, with an educated middle-class audience refusing even to listen to objections to Mr. Sarrazin's arguments.
Amid the controversy, Mr. Sarrazin was forced to resign from the Bundesbank board. But his ouster, combined with the campaign against political correctness started by the right, only helped to strip his controversial arguments of their odious character. Criticism against him was perceived as an overreaction. Hadn't the outraged chancellor, Angela Merkel, denounced the book without having read it? Wasn't she now doing an about-face, by telling young members of her Christian Democratic Union party that multiculturalism was dead in Germany? And hadn't the chairman of the Social Democrats, Sigmar Gabriel, the only prominent politician to counter the substance of Mr. Sarrazin's claims with astute arguments, met with resistance from within his own party when he proposed expelling the unloved comrade?
The second disturbing media event in recent weeks was the reaction to a speech by the newly elected German president, Christian Wulff. As the premier of Lower Saxony, Mr. Wulff had been the first to appoint a German woman of Turkish origin as a member of his cabinet.
In his speech earlier this month on the anniversary of German unification, he took the liberty of reaffirming the commonplace notion, which former presidents had already affirmed, that not only Christianity and Judaism but ''Islam also belongs in Germany.''
After the speech the president received a standing ovation in the Bundestag from the assembled political notables. But the next day the conservative press homed in on his assertion about Islam's place in Germany. The issue has since prompted a split within his own party, the Christian Democratic Union. It is true that, although the social integration of Turkish guest workers and their descendants has generally been a success in Germany, in some economically depressed areas there continue to be problematic immigrant neighborhoods that seal themselves off from mainstream society. But these problems have been acknowledged and addressed by the German government. The real cause for concern is that, as the Sarrazin and Wulff incidents show, cool-headed politicians are discovering that they can divert the social anxieties of their voters into ethnic aggression against still weaker social groups.
The best example is Bavaria's premier, Horst Seehofer, who has declared ''immigrants from other cultures'' to be detrimental and has called for a halt to immigration ''from Turkey and Arab countries.'' Although statistics show a net outflow of people of Turkish origin, Mr. Seehofer invokes the phobic image of unregulated masses of social parasites crowding into our welfare state networks as a way of building support for his own political aims.
To be sure, the bad habit of stirring up political prejudices is a phenomenon reaching far beyond Germany. In Germany, at least, our government doesn't, as in the Netherlands, have to rely on the support of a right-wing populist like Geert Wilders. Unlike Switzerland, we don't have a ban on building minarets. And the comparative European survey data on hostility toward immigrants do not show extreme numbers for Germany.
But social and political developments in Germany, given its ghastly history, do not necessarily have the same significance as in other countries. So, are there grounds for concern that the ''old'' mindsets could undergo a revival?
It depends on what we mean by ''old.'' What we are seeing is not a revival of the mentalities of the 1930s. Instead, it is a rekindling of controversies of the early 1990s, when thousands of refugees arrived from the former Yugoslavia, setting off a debate on asylum seekers. The Christian Democratic Union and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union, then endorsed the position that Germany was ''not a country of immigration.'' At that time hostels for refugees went up in flames and even the Social Democrats gave ground, agreeing in Parliament to a shabby compromise on asylum law.
That dispute was already stimulated by the feeling of an endangered national culture, which had to assert itself as the leitkultur that all newcomers must follow. Yet the controversy of the 1990s was also driven by the fact that Germany had recently reunited and had reached the final stage in an arduous path toward a mentality that provides the necessary underpinning of a liberal understanding of the Constitution.
To the present day, the idea of the leitkultur depends on the misconception that the liberal state should demand more of its immigrants than learning the language of the country and accepting the principles of the Constitution. We had, and apparently still have, to overcome the view that immigrants are supposed to assimilate the ''values'' of the majority culture and to adopt its ''customs.''
That we are experiencing a relapse into this ethnic understanding of our liberal constitution is bad enough. It doesn't make things any better that today leitkultur is defined not by ''German culture'' but by religion. With an arrogant appropriation of Judaism -- and an incredible disregard for the fate the Jews suffered in Germany -- the apologists of the leitkultur now appeal to the ''Judeo-Christian tradition,'' which distinguishes ''us'' from the foreigners.
Nevertheless I do not have the impression that the appeals to the leitkultur signal anything more than a rearguard action or that the lapse of an author into the snares of the controversy over nature versus nurture has given enduring and widespread impetus to the more noxious mixture of xenophobia, racist feelings of superiority and social Darwinism. The problems of today have set off the reactions of yesterday -- but not those of the day before.
I don't underestimate the scale of the accumulated nationalistic sentiment, a phenomenon not confined to Germany. But in the light of current events, another trend is of greater concern: the growing preference for unpolitical figures on the political scene, which recalls a dubious trait of German political culture, the rejection of political parties and party politics.
During the parliamentary election of the federal president last summer, Joachim Gauck, the politically inexperienced and non-party-affiliated civil rights campaigner, stood as the opposing candidate to Mr. Wulff, the career politician. Against the majority in the electoral college, Mr. Gauck, a Protestant minister with a history of opposition to the old East German regime, won the hearts of the broader population, and almost won the election.
The same yearning for charismatic figures who stand above the political infighting can be seen in the puzzling popularity of the aristocratic defense minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, who, with not much more than his family background, polished manners and a judicious wardrobe, has managed to overshadow Ms. Merkel's reputation.
Of even greater concern is the sort of street protests we are now witnessing in Stuttgart, where tens of thousands of people have come out against the federal railway corporation's plan to demolish the old central train station. The protests that have been continuing for months are reminiscent of the spontaneity of the extraparliamentary opposition of the 1960s. Unlike then, though, today people from all age groups and sectors of the population are taking to the streets. The immediate aim is a conservative one: preserving a familiar world in which politics intervenes as the executive arm of supposed economic progress.
In the background, however, there is a deeper conflict brewing over our country's understanding of democracy. The state government of Baden-Wurttemberg, where Stuttgart is located, sees the protests narrowly, as simply a question of whether government is legally permitted to plan such long-term megaprojects. In the midst of the turmoil the president of the Federal Constitutional Court rushed to the project's defense by arguing that the public had already voted to approve it 15 years ago, and thus had no more say in its execution.
But it has since emerged that the authorities did not, in fact, provide sufficient information at the time, and thus citizens did not have an opportunity to develop an informed opinion on which they could have based their votes. To insist that they should have no further say in the development is to rely on a formalistic understanding of democracy. The question is this: Does participation in democratic procedures have only the functional meaning of silencing a defeated minority, or does it have the deliberative meaning of including the arguments of citizens in the democratic process of opinion- and will-formation?
The motivations underlying each of the three phenomena -- the fear of immigrants, attraction to charismatic nonpoliticians and the grass-roots rebellion in Stuttgart -- are different. But they meet in the cumulative effect of a growing uneasiness when faced with a self-enclosed and ever more helpless political system. The more the scope for action by national governments shrinks and the more meekly politics submits to what appear to be inevitable economic imperatives, the more people's trust in a resigned political class diminishes.
The United States has a president with a clear-headed political vision, even if he is embattled and now meets with mixed feelings. What is needed in Europe is a revitalized political class that overcomes its own defeatism with a bit more perspective, resoluteness and cooperative spirit. Democracy depends on the belief of the people that there is some scope left for collectively shaping a challenging future.
Correction: October 31, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A biographical note accompanying an article on Friday, about German politics, misstated the name of the translator. He is Ciaran Cronin, not Cornin.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA HASTING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



810 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Preckwinkle Promotes Her Independence as Some Question It

BYLINE: By MICK DUMKE and KATIE FRETLAND

 BODY:
It is a longstanding practice for Cook County's Democratic Party heavyweights to dismiss would-be reformers as weaklings and phonies.
But this year provides a twist: While the party leadership has embraced Toni Preckwinkle, who is campaigning as a reformer for president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, some activists and commentators have grown skeptical that she really is as independent as she has claimed.
Ms. Preckwinkle, Fourth Ward alderman on the South Side for 19 years, scoffed at the notion that her politics had shifted since she defeated Todd Stroger, the incumbent board president, and two others last February in the Democratic primary. She is the heavy favorite to win the office on Tuesday over Roger Keats, a Republican, and Tom Tresser, the Green Party candidate.
''Is the only definition of independence that you're not elected?'' she asked in an interview. ''So you've been corrupted, having been elected? It's an interesting view of the world.'' 
Ms. Preckwinkle portrayed herself as a rarity in Illinois politics: an independent who is able to play hardball in the interest of good government. It is a view backed by many supporters and even foes of Ms. Preckwinkle; they describe her as a no-nonsense pragmatist wary of wasting time and energy on unwinnable causes.
''It would behoove people throughout the county to be alert and actively engaged with Alderman Preckwinkle,'' said Jay Travis, the executive director of the Kenwood Oakland Community Organization, which has worked with Ms. Preckwinkle for years. ''At the end of the day, a person can be described as a progressive and reach a certain point in their career or reach a certain office and become stagnant -- and it's up to us to make sure that doesn't happen.''
Much of the recent criticism of Ms. Preckwinkle stems from her endorsement of Joseph Berrios for county assessor, the official responsible for determining property values for tax purposes.
Mr. Berrios has been criticized for his overlapping roles as chairman of the Cook County Democratic Party, as a Springfield lobbyist and as an elected member of the County Board of Review, which hears property tax appeals. His opponent, Forrest Claypool, has become a favorite of North Side and suburban reformers for criticizing waste and patronage during eight years as a county commissioner.
Ms. Preckwinkle said she backed Mr. Berrios because he won the Democratic nomination in February while Mr. Claypool, who won earlier elections as a Democrat, waited until after the primary to enter the race as an independent. She said Mr. Berrios had also done a good job of making the county Democratic Party more inclusive for women and members of minorities.
Backing Mr. Berrios and the entire Democratic ticket will help Ms. Preckwinkle build clout among Hispanics and party insiders, her supporters said. She has also said she does not think much of Mr. Claypool.
''The fact that he purports to be a reformer is pretty funny, given that he did two tours of duty as Mayor Daley's chief of staff,'' Ms. Preckwinkle said.
Mr. Claypool said he had not received Mr. Daley's backing in any of his campaigns for office.
Since being elected alderman in 1991, Ms. Preckwinkle has established one of the most independent voting records on the City Council. From 2000 to 2007, no other alderman cast as many votes against initiatives favored by Mr. Daley, according to an analysis by political scientists at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
''She is a lady who has a mind of her own,'' said Alderman Ray Suarez (31st Ward), an ally of Mr. Berrios who has clashed with Ms. Preckwinkle over housing policy and financing for the city inspector general. ''When she believes in something, she sticks up for it.''
Ms. Preckwinkle has supported the majority of legislation advanced by the mayor and his allies, including most of Mr. Daley's annual budget proposals; his controversial use of tax-increment financing, an economic development program in which tax revenues are funneled into accounts controlled almost exclusively by the mayor; and, ultimately, his quest to host the 2016 Summer Olympics.
Mr. Daley considered the Olympics bid ''as part of his legacy and was prepared to spend a good deal of his political capital on it,'' Ms. Preckwinkle said, ''and under those circumstances, you can either be on the outside throwing rocks or you can be on the inside trying to get the best deal you can for the communities you serve.''
Ms. Preckwinkle, several other aldermen and a number of community and labor groups eventually persuaded the city's bid committee, Chicago 2016, to agree that if the city won the Games, it would set aside contracts for minority-owned businesses, jobs for local residents and new housing for low-income families.
That followed months of demonstrations, meetings and pressure on Ms. Preckwinkle and leaders of the Olympics bid, said Ms. Travis, whose organization was in the middle of the negotiations.
''She's pretty savvy,'' Ms. Travis said, ''and she does understand power. We knew we had to push forward to try to create the political will that was obviously lacking.''
Ms. Preckwinkle said she decided to run for County Board president in early 2007 after Mr. Stroger asked her to research juvenile-justice policy for his transition team but then ignored it and never followed up with her.
''I decided at that point that this clearly wasn't the right job for Todd,'' she said.
But she had supported Mr. Stroger's selection to replace his ailing father, John, on the ballot in November 2006. ''I hoped for the best,'' Ms. Preckwinkle said.
Before announcing her candidacy, Ms. Preckwinkle spent 2007 and 2008 reaching out to a wide range of Democratic officials, including Mr. Daley, whose administration she had previously attacked as wasteful and corrupt.
Ms. Preckwinkle said that if the mayor had been supporting someone else, she was not sure she would have entered the race.
As her campaign intensified in 2008 and 2009, Ms. Preckwinkle became less of a maverick on the City Council. In 2007, there were 12 divided roll-call votes in the Council, and Ms. Preckwinkle voted against the majority -- and Mr. Daley -- in 10 of them, or 83 percent of the time. Her opposition rate fell to 33 percent in 2008, 40 percent in 2009 and 23 percent so far this year.
At the same time, her fund-raising took off. From 1999 through 2008, Ms. Preckwinkle raised a total of about $2.2 million -- well above average for an alderman. Since the beginning of 2009, she has raised almost $4 million.
Organized labor has kicked in more than anyone else -- the Service Employees International Union gave more than $650,000 -- but Ms. Preckwinkle has also accepted smaller donations from an eclectic mix of business and political leaders, including some of the mayor's allies.
Among them are the various ventures of Elzie Higginbottom, a mayoral friend and fund-raiser ($51,000); Terry Teele, the former mayoral aide turned lobbyist ($10,500); Daley and George, a law firm led by one of the mayor's brothers ($6,000); Terry Newman, one of the mayor's best friends ($1,000); and Patrick Ryan, head of the Olympics bid committee ($10,000).
''Raising money is a sign of strength,'' Ms. Preckwinkle said. ''And if you're going to be an independent Democrat, which puts you at the margins anyway, you better look to those other opportunities for strength-building.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toni Preckwinkle calling from outside a City Council meeting in June. On Oct. 14 she joined Sheila Simon, smiling, at a Democratic gathering. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); TAX ASSESSORS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); TAX LAW (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



811 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Pares Down Its Balance Sheet

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
General Motors has chosen an ideal time to pare down its balance sheet. Executives are gearing up to go on the road after next week's elections to start promoting the automaker's shares ahead of a mid-November initial public offering. Reducing its balance sheet by $11 billion should encourage prospective investors to focus less on G.M.'s financial liabilities and more on its core asset.
Last year's government-financed bankruptcy wiped out tens of billions of debt, and the rescue injected sufficient cash to get G.M. back in business. But it did not resolve everything. For starters, G.M. still owed $2.8 billion to the trust set up to manage health care costs for United Auto Workers union retirees. It has just paid that off. 
Once the I.P.O. is done, G.M. also plans to redeem the $2.1 billion in preferred stock held by the United States Treasury. Combined with the health care fix, these moves will free up around $500 million of annual interest and dividend payments.
More surprising is G.M.'s decision to inject $6 billion into its American pension plans, using shares to pay for a third of that. It suggests the new G.M. is determined to be much more proactive in solving its financial woes than its predecessor was.
G.M.'s pension plans went untouched in bankruptcy and, as of June 2010, were underfinanced by around $16 billion in America and $10 billion in the rest of the world. But the company was under no obligation to act for another four years.
G.M. still has a bundle of liabilities to deal with: an additional $4 billion or so of preferred stock, $9.3 billion of underfinanced non-U.A.W. retiree obligations and the remaining hole in its pensions. But the deftly timed maneuvers make these less of a distraction, allowing investors to focus on what is supposedly G.M.'s strength: building cars.
Awash in Liquidity
Investors desperate for yield and protection against a sagging dollar are flocking to bonds denominated in emerging market currencies. But some appear to be overlooking one important aspect amid the frenzy: if things go badly, local sheriffs playing by different rules will lay down the law.
Easy money may not be leaving investors with much choice. The world has been awash in liquidity thanks to low interest rates in developed countries. And the Federal Reserve is about to give asset prices a lift with another round of quantitative easing. Yields in more mature economies are already incredibly low, but so are those in dollar-denominated emerging market debt, the ones most accessible to international investors.
That has left many people ogling local currency debt. After all, these securities, which make up the bulk of bonds in emerging markets, can offer yields of 10 percent or more while providing a hedge against the dollar's diminishing fortunes.
So far this year, investors have poured $22.6 billion into local currency funds, more than four times the amount in 2007, the last boom year, according to the fund tracker EPFR. And there's much more where that came from. If the world's biggest investors increased their allocation to such bonds by just a little, it could easily drive yields down.
For now, they may still look enticing compared to what else is available. Locally denominated debt can be more difficult to buy depending on a country's rules on foreign ownership. Moreover, most are also governed by local laws rather than more established financial center jurisdictions like New York and London.
Emerging economies can boast of savings and growth. But full implementation of the rule of law is something else altogether. Transparency International, led by Huguette Labelle, released a survey this week that showed that corruption is still rampant in investor-darling nations like Brazil, India and Indonesia. That means disagreements or defaults may not be as smoothly handled as Western investors are typically accustomed to.
They may feel they are being adequately compensated for the exposure. But if cash keeps lapping up on foreign shores, the risk premium may be washed away.
ANTONY CURRIE and AGNES T. CRANE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Huguette Labelle, chairwoman of the watchdog Transparency International. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MACDOUGALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); CURRENCIES (85%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); SHERIFFS (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



812 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Razors? We Don't Need No Stinkin' Razors

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The San Francisco Giants have undergone major growth and change over the season -- in their play, sure, but maybe even more significantly in their hair.
Between pitcher Tim Lincecum's stoner locks to reliever Sergio Romo's Roman warrior-style facial hair -- not to mention the postseason introduction of Cody Ross's everyman bald dome -- the Giants' hairstyle choices have bled through the sports pages into pop culture coverage.
But nothing has had quite the impact of relief pitcher Brian Wilson's beard. 
Dyed pitch black, it sits on his face like a sweater. Beginning in early fall, when the beard appeared suddenly darker, both male and female fans began to paste felt facsimiles on their faces, and homemade ''Fear the Beard'' signs started appearing.
Now, as the World Series coincides with Halloween, one of the biggest holidays in the costume-loving Bay Area, the beard is everywhere. At AT&T Park on Wednesday, a cottage industry of beard-themed T-shirts had sprung up. Local costume shops, like Costumes on Haight, have ordered extra shipments of beards, and the beard has its own Twitter feed (2,400-plus followers) and Facebook page.
''When you look back at different seasons, there's always something,'' said Mario Alioto, senior vice president of the Giants. ''This year, it's going to be the beard.''
To capitalize on the fan-driven craze, Mr. Alioto said the concession stands at AT&T Park started selling foam beards during the last playoff home stand against the Philadelphia Phillies.
Wilson's beard is a singular affair, but its crossover appeal taps into deeper cultural trends. As Allan Peterkin, author of ''One Thousand Beards: A Cultural History of Facial Hair,'' said, ''People project onto a bearded face -- both good and bad associations.''
Mr. Peterkin said the post-World War II era in the United States focused on a clean-shaven look, with notable countercultural exceptions -- beatniks in the 1950s and hippies in the '60s. The popularity of facial hair tends to wax and wane, but the 21st century has seen a resurrection of the beard, a surge in facial styles not seen since the Victorian era.
Ticking off a number of beard types -- the hipster beard, the unemployment beard, the break-up beard, the bear beard -- Mr. Peterkin defined the current beard era as one of ''playful rebellion.''
Todd Barket, owner of the menswear boutique Unionmade in the Castro, said much of the beard craze of the past five years could be credited to the bear community, a subculture of gay men who emerged in the 1970s sporting heavy facial hair, thick bodies and a general burly aesthetic as a counterpoint to the more manicured mainstream gay ''twink'' look.
''I see it as a big return to naturalness,'' said Mr. Barket, himself bearded.
These days, with young men wearing work boots, buffalo plaid and all manner of facial hair, it is often difficult to tell the difference between a bear and a Mission hipster. The beard itself, Mr. Barket said, seems to be ''gentrified.''
With his rugged frame, Wilson could pass for a bear cub, as young men in the bear community are called. ''I could absolutely picture him on the cover,'' said Steven Wolfe, editor in chief of Bear magazine.
The entire Giants bullpen appears to have grown ''September beards,'' a nod to the playoff beard phenomenon in hockey, when players ritually forgo shaving until they either win the Stanley Cup or exit trying. But Wilson's beard predates playoff games.
The history of beards in baseball itself is recent. Barry Petchesky of the sports blog Deadspin said that he saw more beards in baseball than in other sports -- citing twin factors of superstition and free time -- but America's pastime was overwhelmingly clean-shaven until the Oakland Athletics' Reggie Jackson showed up at training camp in 1972 sporting a long mustache and promising to grow a matching beard. The whole team followed suit.
Almost as popular as Wilson's beard is the chant accompanying its appearance and the thousands of ''Fear the Beard'' signs. It is also the name of a Bay Area sports blog founded by Daniel Turman, Guthrie Dolin, Matthew Meschery and Michael Marshall. Mr. Turman, whose blog takes some credit for the current ubiquity of the ''Fear the Beard'' phrase, said he had been following the progress of Wilson's beard for months.
''He started growing it in the middle of the season,'' Mr. Turman said. ''At first, I didn't pay much attention, but when it got longer and he started dying it black, it sort of jumped out of the screen at you.''
To celebrate the beard's entrance into the World Series, Mr. Turman is taking a step beyond his previous fan offerings: dying his own facial hair on the day of the first game. It's important, he said, to ''beard up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inspired by the play of a hirsute Brian Wilson, top left, and Cody Ross, top center, San Francisco Giants fans have created beard mania at AT&T Park and beyond for the World Series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS GARDNER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES
DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN
 CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); HISTORY (76%); MEN'S CLOTHING (74%); HALLOWEEN (73%); COSTUME SHOPS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



813 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: City's Skyscraper Title Is Going, Going ...

BYLINE: By DANIEL LIBIT

 BODY:
Chicago is facing another Second City moment: It soon will not be able to boast about having the tallest building in America.
After nearly four decades, that title is set to be reclaimed by New York in 2013 when the 1,776-foot One World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan usurps the 1,451-foot Willis Tower.
Chicago's fate was sealed with the recent foreclosure lawsuit filed by the Anglo Irish Bank Corporation against Garrett Kelleher, an Irish developer. The suit all but spelled doom for Mr. Kelleher's proposed 2,000-foot-high Chicago Spire condominium. 
Nevertheless, experts assert that the city will remain vital to the production of superstructures, most of which are now being built outside the country. And despite the travails of the Spire, there continues to be guarded optimism in some local camps that Chicago would again build the country's loftiest edifice.
''The community would embrace it, and there are very good construction trades here,'' said William F. Baker, a partner at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the architectural firm based in Chicago.
Mr. Baker said that with the current state of technology, another super-tall tower could be erected in a relatively short time, perhaps just a couple of years. The challenge will be financing, as was the case with the Spire.
''Somebody will build on the Spire site, whether it will be 2,000 or 1,200, or 1,700 or 800,'' said Robert Wislow, chief executive of U.S. Equities Realty, the commercial real estate firm that manages Willis Tower. ''I think somebody will build a very tall building on that site.''
The site, just west of Lake Shore Drive and alongside the Chicago River, is currently a gaping hole. There was no response to numerous messages left with Mr. Kelleher's firm, Shelbourne Development.
For now, said Lynn Osmond, president of the Chicago Architecture Foundation, the city's relevance in the skyscraper trade will be in a supporting role to projects elsewhere. ''Where we're hanging our hat on,'' Ms. Osmond said, ''is that our guys are still building the tallest buildings in the world.''
The city's transition from skyscraper custodian to technology exporter made for an interesting juxtaposition last week at the annual award dinner of the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, which is based in Chicago. Among the buildings the group recognized this year was the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, currently the world's tallest at 2,717 feet. That skyscraper was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, which has had its hand in three of the world's five tallest.
''Chicago still sees itself as home of tall buildings and not because we are building the world's tallest, '' said Antony Wood, executive director of the council, ''but because of the expertise that resides in this city.''
In the end, the council gave top honors to Broadcasting Place, a 23-story university housing facility in Leeds, England, signaling that in its eyes, at least, biggest is not necessarily best.
Chicago relinquished the global superlative in 1997, when what was then known as the Sears Tower -- renamed last year for the London insurance company Willis -- ceded it to the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. While the tip of the 88-story Petronas project tops out at 32 feet taller, much of its upper reaches are not occupiable. The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, which operates as the chief arbiter of building-height rankings, includes the spire in its official measurements but not working antennas like those on Willis.
Similarly, there appears to be some debate over whether One World Trade Center will be the rightful claimant to the American title, as its roof is to be 83 feet shorter than Willis Tower's.
By the council's designations, Willis Tower is currently the world's eighth-tallest building, while the 1,389-foot Trump International Hotel and Tower across the Loop, is 10th.
Experts agree that it is unlikely that the United States can compete with Asian countries for the global title.
''The American market doesn't support it,'' Mr. Wood said, ''not because of the economic depression, but because of the maturity of the market.''
Ms. Osmond said Chicago's future hope at besting Manhattan might be clearer after the mayoral election in February, noting Mayor Richard M. Daley's support for superstructures and his personal involvement in the plans for both the Trump building and the Spire.
The Trump building was at one point designed to be 2,000 feet, but it was scaled down for economic and safety reasons after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Andrew Weiss, executive vice president of The Trump Organization, said he thought the distinction of tallest building in the United States had lost a lot of its cachet. ''I think it still has some meaning,'' Mr. Weiss said, ''but it is not as important as it was 30 years ago.''
John Huston, executive vice president of Landmark Properties, a part owner of Willis Tower, said the office complex would continue to have the highest occupied floor and roof even after One World Trade Center was complete.
''Did Muhammad Ali's stature and greatness diminish when Mike Tyson became world champion?'' Mr. Huston said. ''Did Babe Ruth's stature diminish after Roger Maris?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Visitors on the 103rd floor of Willis Tower, destined to lose its tallest-American-building title. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%)

COMPANY: IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (57%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



814 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Period Rooms Take On a Modern Gloss

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
They have their charms, but the 18th-century period rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Art are not the first place visitors are likely to go. Stocked with antiques that barriers prevent you from studying up close and dimly lighted in the interest of historical authenticity, they may be invaluable for decorative-arts wonks, but they can't compete for popularity with the Impressionist and Ancient Egyptian galleries.
The sculptor Katrin Sigurdardottir, an Icelander who lives and works in New York, evidently thinks otherwise. The latest in a series of midcareer contemporary artists to have solo shows at the Met, Ms. Sigurdardottir has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions -- follies, you might say -- inspired by two of the museum's French period rooms. Called ''Boiseries,'' one is from the Hotel de Crillon (1777-80) and the other from the Hotel de Cabris (circa 1774). Both are Neo-Classical-style interiors with elaborately carved, painted and gilded walls and period-appropriate furniture. 
Ms. Sigurdardottir's constructions are all-white abstractions of their models, made with exacting craft yet simplified details, like three-dimensional cartoons. They have a fine formal economy, but they are most interesting for their conceptual suggestiveness.
In the north mezzanine gallery of the Met's modern and contemporary wing stands a kind of elongated folding screen of 82 conjoined, snow-white panels with skewed top edges. They have moldings, floral reliefs, doors and window frames based on those of the Hotel de Cabris's salon. The panels curve in a spiral arc ending in an S-shape, and they diminish in size in jagged increments from 8 feet to just 12 inches. Mirrors built into many of the panels further complicate the experience. It could be a set for a Modernist Alice in Wonderland ballet. Many of the panels have hinged doors, the smallest about right for a white rabbit.
The south mezzanine is occupied by an octagonal chamber. Inside are all-white replicas of the original room's furniture from the Hotel de Crillon, including chairs, a love seat and a desk with a tilted mirror on top. As is often the case with period rooms, you cannot go into this one, but you can look in through windows; because everything is white inside, it has a dreamy, glowing appearance, as if it were the ghost of the room it copies.
What you may not notice at first is that you cannot see out through the windows built into other walls of the room. They are not ordinary windows but one-way mirrors, which, viewed from certain angles, reflect one another into infinity.
What, besides cleverly revising the old interior designs, might Ms. Sigurdardottir's constructions mean? First we should take into account that the rooms she selected belong to the era of the French Enlightenment, a time when science, philosophy and other intellectual disciplines cleansed themselves of superstition and religion and opened up to pure reason. Hence the uncontaminated whiteness of Ms. Sigurdardottir's rooms. (The designer of the Hotel de Crillon boudoir, Pierre-Adrien Paris, was a well-known architect with connections both to the king and to some of the most radical Enlightenment luminaries.)
You might think of the enclosed boudoir as a model of Enlightenment-style consciousness in which the mind, turning in on itself, reflects on its own nature and its epistemological capabilities. That is what thinkers like Descartes and Kant did. Kant concluded that you cannot know reality as it is in and of itself -- naked, as it were. We perceive what impinges on us with our senses, which transform incoming information into neurological signals. The brain somehow clothes these signals in visual impressions, sound, taste, feeling and smell, which the mind organizes into an apparently coherent world. We live in a vale of illusions produced by our own brains.
But not everyone believes that so-called mind-independent reality is so inscrutable. Ms. Sigurdardottir's spiral construction, with its multiple portals, calls to mind something that William Blake wrote in 1790: ''If the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would appear to man as it is, infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things through narrow chinks of his cavern.''
The spiral, by the way, is a common symbol of spiritual progress -- the soul's path as it travels in ever-widening circles, expanding its consciousness. But then, the doors in Ms. Sigurdardottir's spiral don't lead anywhere. If you pass through one, you find yourself on the other side of the facade, which turns out to be unpainted particle board. The outside of the enclosed boudoir is raw particle board, too.
Revealing the artifice in this way is a modern, pragmatic move; it is as if to say that the world is whatever we make of it. We are its constructors; there is no higher agency -- divine, supernatural or otherwise -- to be held accountable.
''Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met'' is on view through March 6 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; (212) 535-7710, met.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met: This artist has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions based on two of the museum's French period rooms. Above, her all-white Hotel de Cabris room. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



815 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Two New DNA Tests Promise Noninvasive Ways of Detecting Colon Cancer

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
Two new DNA-based tests, one of them described at a meeting in Philadelphia on Thursday, hold the promise of detecting early -- and sharply reducing -- colon cancer, a disease that afflicts 150,000 people a year in the United States and costs an estimated $14 billion to treat.
The new tests could help most people avoid colonoscopies, which are routinely prescribed for people over age 50. Instead of screening the entire population, doctors could instead refer people for a colonoscopy only if they had tested positive in one of the DNA tests. 
Unlike colonoscopy, in which a seeing tube is threaded up the colon, the DNA tests are noninvasive, so more people would take them. Both tests could be brought to market within two years.
One of the tests, developed by Exact Sciences of Madison, Wis., looks in stool samples for the presence of four altered genes that are diagnostic of colon cancer. The test could catch cancerous and precancerous tumors at an early stage, when they are curable, and allow doctors to remove them promptly.
The other test looks in blood for changes in a single gene, called Septin 9, which is not in the Exact Sciences' panel of four genes. The test has been developed by Epigenomics AG in Germany.
Both tests would be less expensive than colonoscopy, and potentially more effective. Compliance with colonoscopy is low, since people don't want to have one, and the overall cost per detection is high because most people are healthy, and even colonoscopy misses many tumors in the upper part of the intestine.
Exact Sciences now plans to enlist several thousand patients in a prospective trial designed to win the Food and Drug Administration's approval. The trial will be completed in 2012 and the test, if approved, should be available shortly thereafter.
''If widely used, and regularly, this test really does have the opportunity to eliminate colon cancer,'' said Dr. David A. Ahlquist, a colon cancer expert at the Mayo Clinic and an adviser to Exact Sciences.
The practical value of the tests depends critically on details like their sensitivity, meaning the proportion of tumors that are detected, and their specificity, meaning how many of the positive results are in fact false alarms.
Exact Sciences reported in July that its test was highly sensitive and specific when applied directly to cells taken from tumors. But in the real world, the tumor DNA must be detected in stool samples, even though almost all the DNA comes from the bacteria of the gut. Just 0.01 percent of the DNA is human, and most of this is normal DNA, not the altered DNA of tumors.
The company reported Thursday at a meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research that in a trial of 1,100 patients, the test had detected 64 percent of adenomas, or polyps, larger than one centimeter in diameter, and 85 percent of cancers, as judged by the colonoscopies also given to the patients.
Dr. Ahlquist said he was very pleased with the new results, especially the 64 percent detection rate for precancerous polyps, since these are best targets for intervention.
Although such a detection rate sounds far from perfect, it can be effective if the test is given on a regular schedule. ''The Pap smear detects only 50 percent of cervical cancers, but applied over time it virtually eliminates the disease,'' Dr. Ahlquist said.
The specificity of the Exact Sciences test is 88 percent, meaning that 12 percent of the time the patient will be given a false alarm. This may be acceptable, given that the worst that will happen is that the patient will get an unnecessary colonoscopy.
''With stool tests, you need a 90 percent specificity,'' said Dr. Bert Vogelstein, a cancer expert at Johns Hopkins University who is also an adviser to the company. ''Exact Sciences has gotten close to that. There's a lot of hope for getting a stool-based test.''
Promising results for the blood-based tests were reported this week at a meeting in Barcelona, Spain. Epigenomics said its test had a sensitivity of 86 percent and a specificity of 93 percent.
Proponents of each test note possible weaknesses of the other. Dr. Achim Plum, a vice president for Epigenomics, said that 30 to 40 percent of people have small polyps, but less than 10 percent of these ever become cancerous. The colon-based test may pick up too many of these, sending far too many people in for colonoscopy.
''The health economics of such a test make no sense,'' he said.
But the blood-based test may have a similar problem, since a positive signal could come from cancers anywhere in the body. If the patient is advised to take a whole body imaging scan, more false positives could be generated ''so you end up doing more harm than good,'' Dr. Vogelstein said.
Dr. Plum said that Epigenomics did not see its test as being necessarily in competition with the Exact Sciences test, because the blood-based test would be good alternative for people put off by stool testing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLORECTAL CANCER (94%); DNA (93%); CANCER (93%); DNA TESTING (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); ENDOSCOPY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); BACTERIA (77%); US FDA APPROVALS (66%); APPROVALS (63%)

COMPANY: EXACT SCIENCES CORP (92%); EPIGENOMICS AG (84%)

TICKER: EXAS (NASDAQ) (92%); ECX (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (92%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



816 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Profit Soars 55% As Oil Prices Rebound

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded company, reported on Thursday a larger-than-expected 55 percent rise in its third-quarter profit, helped by higher crude oil prices and increased production of natural gas.
Exxon's performance reflected the strong results of several other large oil companies, although profits still cannot compare with the records set two and three years ago when oil and gas prices were substantially higher than they are today. 
Royal Dutch Shell, Europe's largest oil company, reported earlier Thursday that its third-quarter profit rose by 7 percent. ConocoPhillips announced on Wednesday that its net income had more than doubled for the quarter.
''Industry fundamentals have lifted sharply from a year ago,'' said Fadel Gheit, a senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''A rising tide raises all ships.''
There are signs, however, that oil prices are not going to support higher profits over the next several quarters. The Energy Department released a report Wednesday showing that crude oil inventories rose last week by more than 5 million barrels as a result of weak demand, the largest increase since July.
Oil prices have been lodged in a relatively narrow band of $70 to $86 over the last year, and they have been hovering just above $80 over the last month. Most energy experts expect continuing slow economic growth will decrease the likelihood of any oil price increase over the winter months unless there is a geopolitical crisis or a collapse of the dollar that would encourage private investments in commodities.
Meanwhile an abundance of natural gas from a wave of drilling in shale fields in recent years has brought the gas price down to below $4 per million British thermal units, a price that makes profitable drilling difficult. Stockpiles of gas are also growing, and weather analysts are expecting a warmer winter than last year, which should produce modest demand.
The industry is also facing the slowdown of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico after the BP well blowout in April that killed 11 rig workers and spilled millions of barrels of crude oil into the gulf.
Shell reported that it expected to produce 40,000 fewer barrels next year in the gulf, which represents more than 1 percent of its current production, and declines could persist into 2012.
But Exxon, based in Irving, Tex., reported a strong quarter with oil and gas output rising by 21 percent, largely as a result of its acquisition of XTO Energy, a major gas producer, and the ramping up of huge liquefied natural gas export projects in Qatar.
''Our cash generation remains very strong,'' said David S. Rosenthal, Exxon Mobil's vice president for investor relations, ''reflecting strong results across all business lines.''
The company's third-quarter net profit was $7.35 billion, or $1.44 a share, compared with $4.73 billion, or 98 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
Revenue rose to $95.3 billion, a 15.8 percent rise.
Crude oil prices were about 13 percent higher in the quarter than the comparable quarter in 2009, while gas prices were also higher for much of the quarter.
Shares of Exxon rose 55 cents, or 0.84 percent, to $66.22 on Thursday.
Mr. Rosenthal said the company welcomed the recent government lifting of the gulf drilling moratorium, and was preparing revised permitting applications to drill new wells. ''We are always looking for opportunities that are out there,'' he said.
Royal Dutch Shell benefited from improving conditions in the industry, Peter Voser, the chief executive, said in a statement. Shell was ''making good progress against our targets, and there is more to come,'' Mr. Voser said. Shares rose 0.5 percent in trading Thursday in London.
Like its rivals, Shell is reducing costs to try to improve profitability. Shell sold $2 billion of assets this year, including older oil assets in Norway and refining capacity in Germany. The company said it expected to sell another $6 billion of assets by the end of next year, mainly operations in Europe and Africa that were not part of its core business.
To increase output, Mr. Voser plans to invest in new projects in Qatar, China and the United States. He said Thursday that Shell was ''in a delivery window for new growth.''
A new oil sands mine in Canada started production in the third quarter, and Shell has decided to invest in deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil.
Net profit rose to $3.46 billion in the third quarter, from $3.25 billion a year earlier. Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell earned $4.9 billion, compared with $2.6 billion in the third quarter of last year.
Production in the third quarter rose 5 percent, to 3.058 million barrels of oil equivalent a day, from 2.92 million barrels in the year-earlier period.
Sales for liquefied natural gas, or LNG, rose 22 percent, to 4.26 million tons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (98%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (98%); COP (NYSE) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); QATAR (79%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



817 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: New Claims By Jobless Show a Drop Of 21,000

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Fewer people applied for unemployment benefits last week, the second consecutive weekly decline.
The Labor Department said Thursday that initial claims for jobless benefits fell by 21,000 to a seasonally adjusted 434,000 in the week that ended Oct. 23. 
It was the second-lowest number for claims this year. The only time it was lower was during the week of July 10, and that week was affected by the Independence Day holiday, when state employment offices were closed. Wall Street analysts had expected a small increase last week.
Still, claims will have to keep falling to signal a widespread increase in hiring. Claims have fluctuated around 450,000 for most of the year, and have fallen below that level seven times. But they have always rebounded in subsequent weeks, and have not remained below 450,000 for longer than two weeks.
The four-week average, a less volatile measure, dropped by 5,500, to 453,250, the lowest level since the week of July 24.
Applications for unemployment aid fell steadily last year after the recession officially ended in June 2009, dropping to about 450,000, from 600,000, by January of this year.
Employers have not done much hiring in recent months with economic growth so weak. The economy grew 1.7 percent in the second quarter, an anemic pace in normal times and even worse in the aftermath of the severe downturn.
Economists expect that the Commerce Department on Friday will report slightly better growth of 2 percent for the third quarter. The number of people continuing to receive jobless insurance benefits also dropped last week, falling by 122,000, to 4.36 million, the department said. That does not include an additional group that is receiving extended benefits under an emergency program approved by Congress during the recession.
The emergency benefit rolls fell by more than 400,000, to about 4.7 million for the week ended Oct. 9, the latest data available. Some of the decline was from people exhausting the unemployment aid they were eligible for.
All told, about 8.8 million people received unemployment benefits that week.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



818 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'Alpha and Omega' (PG, 1:28) This animated film about talking wolves in the Canadian Rockies that learn lessons about cooperation and love occasionally has a touch of old-fashioned grandeur in its western vistas, but otherwise it's funny-animal and noble-beast business as usual. (Mike Hale)20101028
- 'Boxing Gym' (No rating, 1:31) Pugilists and philosophers of all kinds converge in Frederick Wiseman's mesmerizing documentary about an Austin, Tex., gym where people of assorted colors, means, grace, beauty and abilities meet among the heavy bags. (Manohla Dargis)20101028
'Budrus' (No rating, 1:22, in Arabic, Hebrew and English) Julia Bacha's engrossing, sometimes inspiring documentary recounts the pioneering efforts in nonviolent protest undertaken by the residents of the Palestinian village of Budrus in the West Bank. (Hale)20101028 
- 'Carlos' (No rating, in English, French, Spanish, Japanese, German, Arabic, Russian and Hungarian) An excited, exciting, epic dramatization about the international terrorism brand known as Carlos the Jackal (Edgar Ramirez) from the wildly talented French director Olivier Assayas. Try to catch the five-hour version. (Dargis)20101028
'Case 39' (R, 1:49) Radiating a distinctly retro vibe, this throwaway addition to the diminutive-demon genre features Renee Zellweger as a harried social worker who unwisely fosters an at-risk 10-year-old (an exceptional Jodelle Ferland). Working methodically and without irrelevant motion, the German director Christian Alvart is consistently undermined by a screenplay (by Ray Wright) more interested in following formula than breaking new ground. (Dargis)20101028
'Catfish' (PG-13, 1:26) A sloppy, shallow, ethically compromised documentary and also a fascinating document of life, love and self-creation in the age of Facebook. (A. O. Scott)20101028
'Conviction' (R, 1:46) Hilary Swank plays Betty Anne Warren, a New England woman who dedicates her life to exonerating her brother, Kenny (Sam Rockwell), who is serving a life sentence for murder. Based on a true story, this melodrama starts out strong and interesting, but then becomes plodding and earnest -- a made-for-TV movie with superior acting. (Scott)20101028
'Devil' (PG-13, 1:20) This serviceable burst of high-end hokum traps five strangers in an elevator in a Philadelphia office tower, all harboring sins in dire need of atonement. Classing up a flimsy, religion-themed plot (by M. Night Shyamalan) with the kind of limber cinematography only someone like Tak Fujimoto can deliver, the director John Erick Dowdle remains cool when the lights fail and the blood begins to flow. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20101028
'Easy A' (PG-13, 1:33) Whatever else it accomplishes, the sassy high school comedy ''Easy A'' commands attention for the irresistible presence of Emma Stone, playing a good girl who pretends to be bad. (Stephen Holden)20101028
- 'Enter the Void' (No rating, 2:17, in French) This is your brain. This is your brain on a Gaspar Noe movie. (Dargis)20101028
'The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo' (No rating, 2:32, in Swedish) As the tattooed, nose-ringed, scowling computer hacker of the title, Noomi Rapace more or less looks the part that the filmmakers don't let her fully play in a slack, second-rate Swedish adaptation of the Stieg Larsson best seller. (Dargis)20101028
'The Girl Who Played With Fire' (No rating, 2:09, in Swedish) Lisbeth Salander returns, framed for murder and embroiled in an investigation that leads in the direction of her monstrous father. This Swedish-language adaptation of the second novel in Stieg Larsson's best-selling trilogy is better than its predecessor, but apart from Noomi Rapace's ferocious performance as Lisbeth, it doesn't rise about the level of not-bad television. (Scott)20101028
'Heartbreaker' (No rating, 1:44, in French) This slapstick-infused French imitation of a Hollywood romantic comedy is saved by Romain Duris's frisky portrayal of an ethical gigolo who is hired to break up mismatched couples, without sleeping with the women. (Holden)20101028
- 'Hereafter' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither the director, Clint Eastwood, nor the screenwriter, Peter Morgan, is a name that comes to mind when you think of ghost stories, which may be why this contemplative venture into supernaturalism seems so strange and persuasive. Three stories run in parallel, converging at the end and leaving a haunting sense of possibility in their wake. (Scott)20101028
- 'Howl' (No rating, 1:30) Not your standard biopic. Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman's film uses the documentary record, some rather literal-minded animation (by Eric Drooker) and the talents of James Franco to recreate the time, place and impact of Allen Ginsberg's ''Howl.'' A rare and genuine work of literary criticism on film, this movie has the power to return you to a great poem with fresh eyes and ears. (Scott)20101028
- 'I Am Love' (No rating, 2:00, in Italian) A visually lush melodrama from Luca Guadagnino about the young matriarch (Tilda Swinton) of a wealthy Milanese family whose passions and suffering fuel this art-house gloss on the women's picture. (Dargis)20101028
- 'Idiots and Angels' (No rating, 1:21) Hand-drawn in swirling pencil lines, the dystopia conjured by Bill Plympton's sixth and best animated feature suggests Toulouse-Lautrec by way of Charles Bukowski. (Holden)20101028
- 'Inside Job' (PG-13, 1:45) Charles Ferguson's anatomy of the 2008 financial disaster is meticulous, informative and infuriating. In a strong year for documentaries, this one is essential viewing. (Scott)20101028
'It's Kind of a Funny Story' (PG-13, 1:41) Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck (''Half Nelson,'' ''Sugar'') turn Ned Vizzini's young-adult loony-bin adventure into a wry, sensitive story of teenage confusion. Keir Gilchrist is Craig, a New York high school student whose suicidal thoughts land him in the psychiatric wing of a large hospital. It turns out to be a friendly place, where he meets an eccentric mentor (Zach Galifianakis) and a girl (Emma Roberts). There is something cautious and a little patronizing about the movie, which feels as if it were made by responsible adults trying, with all good intentions, to reach out to the youth. (Scott)20101028
'Jackass 3D' (R, 1:34) America's favorite jackasses are back, making mischief in stunts and skits of varying ambition and impact in three generally unmemorable dimensions. Jeff Tremaine directed, though he probably just stood around laughing. (Dargis)20101028
- 'Last Train Home' (No rating, 1:27, in Mandarin language and Sichuan dialect) Lixin Fan's wrenching and compassionate documentary examines a complex and overwhelming social phenomenon -- the role of migrant laborers in China's fast-changing economy -- from the standpoint of a family that is tested and fractured by globalization. (Scott)20101028
'Leaving' (No rating, 1:25, in French) A proper bourgeois wife and mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) and an earthy (more like furry) day laborer (Sergi Lopez) embark on an illicit affair in an increasingly improbable French drama from Catherine Corsini. (Dargis)20101028
'Legend of the Guardians: the Owls of Ga'Hoole' (PG, 1:30) Or (after Harry Potter's postal pet) ''Hedwig of the Rings.'' Zack Snyder, director of ''300,'' aims for younger males with this animated all-avian opus based on Kathryn Lasky's books. And it's a hoot, full of winged warriors in helmets and metal claws, swooping vengefully in slow-motion conflagration. Each feather, sunset and 3-D perspective is rendered impeccably, and the voice talent, much of it Australian, is top-notch. But a trite setup (and some retrograde female characterizations) keep it from soaring. (Andy Webster)20101028
- 'Let Me In' (R, 1:55) This remake of the spooky, heartfelt Swedish vampire film ''Let the Right One In'' is full of strange emotions and effects, not the least of which are two haunting and subtle performances, by Kodi Smit-McPhee as a misfit 12-year-old boy and Chloe Grace Moretz as the undead girl who eases his loneliness. The director, Matt Reeves (''Cloverfield''), uses some of the techniques of horror to create feelings far weirder and more interesting than fear and suspense. Not that horror fans will be disappointed. (Scott)20101028
'Life As We Know It' (PG, 1:55) It's enough to say that this bland romantic comedy (starring an abrasive Katherine Heigl) is well made for its corporate type. But there is not a single deviation from rom-com formula. (Holden)20101028
'Mao's Last Dancer' (PG, 1:57) In Bruce Beresford's film, based on the true story of a Chinese dancer who was allowed to go to Houston to study in the early 1980s and subsequently defected, ballet and modern Chinese history are window dressing for what's essentially a deluxe old-fashioned tear-jerker. (Hale)20101028
- 'Marwencol' (No rating, 1:23) Named for a tiny World War II-era town painstakingly constructed by Mark Hogancamp after his emergence from a beating-induced coma in 2000, Jeff Malmberg's documentary paints a multilayered portrait of an outsider artist. Populated by meticulously costumed Barbies and G. I. Joes, the town is a hotbed of sex, violence and betrayal fantasies that provide therapy for its creator and a record of his fascinating journey from near death to active life. (Catsoulis)20101028
'My Soul to Take' (R, 1:46) Wes Craven's first feature in five years is about seven teenagers born the night a serial killer died, each of whom inherited one aspect of his fractured personality. It follows the Craven recipe of comic pop-culture references mixed with dreamy shocks, but only a few fleeting moments have any of the old Craven poetry. (Hale)20101028
'Never Let Me Go' (R, 1:43) Mark Romanek directs this pretty, emotionally arid adaptation of the Kazuo Ishiguro novel, with Carey Mulligan, Andrew Garfield and Keira Knightley as three young people raised to become organ donators. (Dargis)20101028
'Nora's Will' (No rating, 1:32, in Spanish) A slight, sentimental film from the Mexican newcomer Mariana Chenillo about a woman who carefully stage-manages the aftermath of her death. A very fine Fernando Lujan plays the woman's former husband. (Dargis)20101028
'Nowhere Boy' (R, 1:37) Sam Taylor-Wood directs and Aaron Johnson stars in a prettily photographed melodrama about a tumultuous period in John Lennon's adolescence when maternal love blurred together with sex, ale and rock 'n' roll. (Dargis)20101028
'Nuremberg' (No rating, 1:18, in English and German) A painstaking reconstruction of Stuart Schulberg's documentary, commissioned by the United States military in 1945, about the first war-crimes trials of high-ranking German officials. Some of the footage of Nazi atrocities and their perpetrators is nearly as shocking now as it must have been just after the war, when the full scope of the horror was only beginning to be understood. (Scott)20101028
'Paranormal Activity 2' (R, 1:31 ) Both prequel and sequel to its 2007 parent (eventually released in 2009), this new story follows a distraught couple (Sprague Grayden and Brian Boland) whose California home has been invaded by foul stenches, maleficent roars and crashing crockery. Clinging faithfully to a formula that makes virtues of inelegance and incoherence, the director, Tod Williams, is nevertheless unable to mask the strain of stretching the gimmick to a second movie. (Catsoulis)20101028
'Red' (PG-13, 1:51) An intriguing cast of mature performers -- including Bruce Willis, Helen Mirren, Morgan Freeman, John Malkovich and Brian Cox -- goes through the motions of a loud action-comedy based on a series of graphic novels. Better than it might have been, but not nearly as good as it should be. (Scott)20101028
'Secretariat' (PG, 1:56) Diane Lane plays Penny Chenery, the owner of the 1970s four-legged racing sensation, in a gauzy Disney movie that's as square as a military flattop. The director Randall Wallace whips the uplift until it's frothy. (Dargis)20101028
- 'The Social Network' (PG-13, 2:00) David Fincher, working from Aaron Sorkin's script, directs a fleet, weirdly funny, exhilarating, alarming, fictionalized look at the boot-up, log-on, plug-in generation and the man (Jesse Eisenberg as Mark Zuckerberg) behind the social-media phenomenon Facebook. Andrew Garfield and Justin Timberlake also star. (Dargis)20101028
'Stone' (R, 1:45) The director John Curran's recipe for pulp fiction: Dim the lights. Take Edward Norton (as a prisoner), Milla Jovovich (as a wife), Robert De Niro (as a prison official) and Frances Conroy (as another wife). Stir. (Dargis)20101028
'Tamara Drewe' (R, 1:47) Stephen Frears's fizzy pastoral sex farce -- adapted from Posy Simmonds's graphic novel, itself an updating of Thomas Hardy's ''Far From the Madding Crowd'' -- is mildly naughty, admirably frank in its approach to sex and finally not all that interesting. Gemma Arterton is the title character, who returns to her rural hometown to juggle three suitors: a rock star; a married, older novelist; and a hunky rustic swain. (Scott)20101028
'The Taqwacores' (No rating, 1:23) This low-budget film looks at what happens when Islam meets punk. A young college student named Yusef who was raised as a traditional Muslim moves into a house off-campus inhabited by other Muslims with a decidedly more relaxed view of the religion. It all ends in a rowdy, disastrous punk concert. Yusef's trials of faith -- sexual liberation, vulgarity -- are predictable, and the characters don't really convince you that they spend much time contemplating the contradictions between the way they live and the teachings of their faith. (Neil Genzlinger)20101028
'The Town' (R, 2:05) Ben Affleck directs and stars in this not-bad Boston crime thriller, with decent action, good performances -- notably from Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner and Blake Lively -- and some fine, if somewhat fetishized, local color. (Scott)20101028
'Vision' (No rating, 1:51, in German) Margarethe von Trotta's sympathetic imagining of the life of the protofeminist 12th-century Benedictine nun, Hildegard von Bingen, offers a hard-headed view of religiosity in which church politics and money conflict with the characters' asceticism. (Holden)20101028
- 'Waiting for ''Superman'' ' (PG, 1:42) Davis Guggenheim's powerful, alarming documentary about America's failing public schools is a call to arms to modify a system that he portrays as held hostage by teachers' unions. The potential saviors are reformers like Geoffrey Canada, founder of the Harlem Children's Zone. (Holden)20101028
'Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps' (PG-13, 2:13) Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas) returns in Oliver Stone's unwieldy and entertaining attempt at a moral anatomy of the financial debacle of 2008. If Mr. Stone misses the chance to turn that event into great drama, he nonetheless turns it into a sweeping, racing and intermittently pithy show. Shia LeBeouf is Gekko's would-be son-in-law; Carey Mulligan is the rogue financier's estranged daughter; and Josh Brolin is a suave titan of the Street who very nearly out-Gekkos Gekko. (Scott)20101028
'Winter's Bone' (R, 1:40) Debra Granik's flinty Ozark noir follows a teenage girl's search for her missing father, an expert methamphetamine cooker who has fallen afoul of his own outlaw kin. Jennifer Lawrence's lead performance is flawless and helps to lift this film above at least some of the usual independent-movie assumptions about rural poverty in America. (Scott)20101028
'You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger' (R, 1:38) Sexual longing and metaphysical emptiness with an all-start cast in London, written and directed by -- no points for guessing right! -- Woody Allen. (Scott)20101028
Film Series
Mapping Subjectivity: Experimentation in Arab Cinema from the 1960s to Now, Part 1 (Friday through Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) Alongside the unbridled commercialism of the Egyptian cinema, the Arab world also hosts a more recent tradition of personal and experimental cinema, examined in this series organized by the Museum of Modern Art and ArteEast. Among the many events: The Palestinian filmmaker Elia Suleiman will be present to introduce his 1996 ''Chronicle of a Disappearance'' (Friday at 4:30 p.m.) and his 2002 ''Divine Intervention'' (Friday at 7); from Algeria, Malek Bensmail introduces his 2008 ''China Is Still Far'' (Saturday at 7:30). Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters , (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)20101028
Scary Movies 4 (Friday through Sunday) The Film Society of Lincoln Center's annual Halloween program this year features 14 films in three days, ranging from a jaw-dropping bit of grindhouse sleaze directed by the great cinematographer Jack Cardiff (''The Mutations,'' Friday at 6:30 p.m.) to the premiere of ''Village of Shadows,'' a suspense thriller from France (Friday at 8:30, introduced by the director, Fouad Benhammou). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $12. (Kehr)20101028
The Singular Segundo de Chomon (Friday through Sunday) Like his better-known French contemporary, Georges Melies, the Spanish-born Segundo Victor Aurelio Chomon y Ruiz was a master of early cinema who treated the new technology as the greatest box of tricks a magician ever possessed. Ranging from simple stunts, like running the film backward to make a diver seem to jump out of the water in the 1905 ''Le Plongeur Fantastique,'' to elaborately staged (and gorgeously hand-colored) spectacles such as the 1908 ''Ki Ri Ki, Acrobates Japonais,'' Chomon's work both astounds and delights. This extensive retrospective of some 80 short films, all in 35-millimeter and most from the Filmoteca de Catalunya, presents the essence of Chomon's cinema in a series of six programs. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village , (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $9. (Kehr)20101028

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCARY MOVIES 4: (Friday through Sunday) The Film Society of Lincoln Center's Halloween program features 14 films in three days, ranging from a jaw-dropping bit of grindhouse sleaze directed by the great cinematographer Jack Cardiff (''The Mutations,'' Friday at 6:30 p.m.) to the premiere of ''Village of Shadows,'' above, with, from left, Ornella Boule, Barbara Goenaga and Christa Theret. It's a suspense thriller from France (Friday at 8:30 p.m., introduced by the director, Fouad Benhammou). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org
 $12. (Dave Kehr) (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOBAYASHI PRODUCTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); RELIGION (67%); SENTENCING (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (52%); MURDER (51%); TERRORISM (51%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (76%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (73%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



819 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: In Europe and Central Asia, Bright Economic Data

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
A main indicator of consumer and business sentiment in Europe rose more than expected on Thursday, while a public bank that finances private enterprise in ex-Communist countries raised its growth forecasts.
The two reports, along with a drop in German unemployment, reinforced expectations that Europe and the former Soviet Union were recovering from last year's sharp downturn, though growth was still wobbly in places.
The European Commission's economic sentiment indicator, which measures confidence among consumers and a broad range of industries, rose 0.5 points in October after rising 0.3 points in September. In the euro area, the index rose 0.9 points for the second month in a row. The index is 104.1 for both regions, above the long-term average. 
But strong gains in Northern Europe were partly offset by continued pessimism in Spain and other countries in the south that have been the focus of Europe's sovereign debt crisis.
''So far, the expected growth dip in the euro area has not really materialized,'' Christoph Weil, an economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt said in a note. But he added, ''tensions are increasing below the surface.''
In addition, the public European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose largest shareholder is the United States, raised its forecast for economic growth in the 29 so-called transition countries it covers, which extend from Hungary to Mongolia.
''The recovery from the crisis is gradually becoming more broad-based across the region, although it is still fragile in some subregions,'' the bank said in a report. ''Even the recessions in the Baltic states and southeastern Europe appear to be finally bottoming out.''
Growth in the region will reach 4.2 percent this year and 4.1 percent next year, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development said. In July, the bank, which also receives financing from Europe and countries including Japan and Australia, predicted growth of 3.5 percent this year and 3.9 percent next. Last year, output in the region shrank by 5.5 percent.
Countries that suffered double-digit plunges in economic output last year, including Latvia, Lithuania, Armenia and Ukraine, will grow again next year as bank lending resumes and unemployment falls, the bank said. It also raised its growth forecasts for countries like Poland, Romania and Turkey.
The bank left its forecast for Russia next year unchanged at 4.6 percent. It also said there remained big disparities among regions. In Southeastern Europe, which includes the former Yugoslavia as well as Albania, growth will reach only 1.6 percent next year. That is a more optimistic forecast than the bank made in July, but shows that the region is still struggling after output fell 0.6 percent this year and 5.4 percent in 2009.
Central Asia, including countries like Kazakhstan, will grow the fastest because of higher prices for oil and other commodities, the bank said.
The rise in the European Commission sentiment indicator was led by France and the Netherlands, with Germany recording only a modest increase -- another sign that the record growth there this year may be cooling. However, there was other good economic news from Germany on Thursday, as unemployment fell below the three million mark to 7 percent, an 18-year low.
Germany is cashing in the dividend from changes to labor laws made several years ago, Axel A. Weber, president of the German Bundesbank, said. ''Comprehensive and sometimes painful labor market reforms have helped to make the labor market significantly more flexible,'' Mr. Weber told an audience in Eltville, Germany, according to a release.
Among business, the biggest improvement in the sentiment indicator was among manufacturers, because of booming exports. Financial services recorded a decline for the second month in a row.
But Mr. Weber and others cautioned that there were still many dangers, like excessive trade deficits or surpluses, that could derail growth. ''While the financial crisis has been associated with a narrowing of imbalances, recent data suggest that this development has started to go into reverse,'' Mr. Weber said. He called on China to allow its currency to fluctuate more to increase domestic demand and compensate for a soaring trade surplus.
Erik Berglof, chief economist of the bank, said that some of the problems that had caused a severe economic crisis in Eastern Europe last year, like a dependency on loans denominated in dollars, have eased. But much more work needs to be done, he said. ''There is no room for policy complacency,'' Mr. Berglof said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assembly line workers at the car supplier FSG Automotive in Oelsnitz, Germany. The country's unemployment rate fell to 7 percent, an 18-year low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER KILLIG/DPA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (51%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); POLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); LATVIA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



820 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Ye Olde Craving Calling?

BYLINE: By KALY SOTO

 BODY:
YOU'RE never too old to dress up for Halloween, but after about 13, if you turn up at an unsuspecting someone's door looking for candy, you could end up in the back of a squad car.
For those with an aching sweet tooth, there are still candy stores in the city, from the 500-square-foot Sweet Life on the edge of Chinatown to the 15,000-square-foot Dylan's Candy Bar on the Upper East Side, and each has confections for every preference: sweet, sour, hot, chocolate or gummy. 
Also on the Lower East Side is a city staple, Economy Candy, with a red awning and windows decorated with candy boxes. Treats of every stripe are stacked floor to ceiling in this 73-year-old store, run by the Cohen family. Jerry Cohen, and his wife, Ilene, who took over the business from his father, greet customers (some ''handed down from generation to generation,'' Mr. Cohen said) and help them find their favorites -- including nostalgic items like candy cigarettes and clove gum (three packs for $1).
The store is a favorite stop for customers like John Singler, who lives in the West Village and was browsing on a recent Monday. ''I bring friends here,'' Mr. Singler said. The nostalgic items appealed to him but probably not in the way the Cohens intended: holding up a packet of Nik-L-Nips (wax bottles filled with goo), he reminisced about the ''really awful'' candies from his childhood.
Economy isn't so much an issue at the well-known Dylan's, which was started by its namesake, Dylan Lauren. The store carries 7,000 types of goodies, a strong lure for Kathy Fox and her family, repeat customers from Shelton, Conn. ''We come every time we're in the city,'' Ms. Fox said.
If Dylan's is too much sugar stimulation, try scaling back at the Sweet Life, a quintessential corner candy store at Hester and Ludlow Streets on the Lower East Side. In addition to all kinds of candy and nuts, its many confections include sea-salt caramels in lavender (divine) and fudge in flavors like pumpkin. It also carries an array of licorice, including Kookaburra from Australia, said Sam Greenfield, who bought the shop seven years ago with his sister, Diane Miller.
Across the East River in Dumbo is Dewey's, a bright sweet spot with glass candy jars lining the walls and tables filled with treats. Dewey's opened in January, and its owner, Alison Oblonsky, said she decided to go into the candy business because it ''makes people so happy.''
Marcus Woolley, 10, visiting from San Diego, walked out with a bag of Nerds, jawbreakers and a tin of mints in the shape of the head of Stewie from ''Family Guy.'' Experienced candy consumer that he was, Marcus said he had a hard time finding a good selection of jawbreakers elsewhere.
Ms. Oblonsky said her big sellers at the moment were anything in the shape of fangs (including old-timey wax ones) or eyeballs. On non-Halloween days, Ms. Oblonsky said nostalgic candy was a good seller. Also, she said, ''never underestimate the power of gummies.''
And at $10.99 a pound, they are cheaper than bail.
Tricks to Finding the Treats All Over Town: DEWEY'S: 141 Front Street, between Pearl and Jay Streets, Dumbo, Brooklyn; (718) 422-1333, deweyscandy.com. Fun find: red licorice Scottie dogs. DYLAN'S CANDY BAR: 1011 Third Avenue, at 60th Street, Manhattan; (646) 735-0078, dylanscandybar.com. Fun find: everything but the Kitchen Sink Bar. ECONOMY CANDY: 108 Rivington Street, between Ludlow and Essex Streets, Lower East Side; (800) 352-4544, economycandy.com. Fun find: clove gum and candy cigarettes. THE SWEET LIFE: 63 Hester Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side; (212) 598-0092, sweetlifeny.com. Fun find: sea-salt caramels. Also: SCHMIDT'S CONFECTIONERY: 94-15 Jamaica Avenue, between 94th and 95th Streets, Woodhaven, Queens; (718) 846-9326, schmidtscandystore .blogspot.com. WILLIAMS CANDY: 1318 Surf Avenue, near West 15th Street, Coney Island, Brooklyn; (718) 372-0302, candytreats.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The goods at Dewey's candy store in Dumbo, Brooklyn, include Nerds and jawbreakers.
 Ilene Cohen, co-owner of Economy Candy, whose stock includes candy cigarettes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (90%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



821 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A Novel Whose Plot Seems Oddly Familiar

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A mysterious hedge fund takes aim at weak currencies from Colombia to Ukraine. Finally, it succeeds in Turkey and a panic ensues as investors dump government debt, the currency dwindles and Ankara defaults on its obligations.
The scenario is fictitious, but its themes -- avaricious traders, volatile currencies and beleaguered governments -- seem to resonate in a world healing fitfully from the 2008 financial crisis. Greece, anyone?
That might explain why ''Nineteenth Street NW,'' a novel by a Harvard-trained economist at the International Monetary Fund, has attracted some interest, at least among the international banking set. 
Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, said he liked the combination of ''finance and intrigue.''
Simon Johnson, a former chief economist for the I.M.F., called the novel ''a profound critique of the global economic system'' that was ''concealed within a gripping thriller.''
The novel's author, Rex Ghosh, is chief of the systemic issues division at the I.M.F., which only three years ago seemed to be slipping into irrelevance, bruised by criticism of its response to the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.
''A few years ago, the institution seemed moribund,'' said Mr. Ghosh, 46, who has worked at the fund since 1994 and publishes his research under his full name, Atish R. Ghosh.
''When I was trying to shop the book around, originally in 2006, I could not get anyone interested. I remember a letter from a major publishing house saying, 'It's very nicely written, great characters, but the plot -- a global financial crisis -- is too implausible.' ''
So Mr. Ghosh published the book in 2008 under a pen name, Brett Woods, a play on the Bretton Woods conference in 1944 that created the I.M.F.
Soon after, the world was plunged into a crisis that thrust the I.M.F. onto center stage and renewed its role as a financial monitor and firefighter.
Mr. Ghosh brought out a second edition last month with a new publisher, Greenleaf Book Group Press, in time for the annual meetings of the I.M.F. and the World Bank here, where he sold and signed scores of copies.
The book's title refers to the street here that separates the two institutions.
Its plot centers on two economists: a cynical bureaucrat, Celine O'Rourke, and a morally conflicted terrorist, Sophia Gemaye, who infiltrates an I.M.F.-like institution to sabotage currency markets and draw attention to the plight of her homeland, an unnamed, oil-rich developing country.
The novel takes a skeptical view of economists, their lingo and their values. One character, a love interest of Sophia, is described as ''slipping effortlessly into the usual economists' euphemisms -- from 'fiscal retrenchment' to 'labor market flexibility' -- that disguise, even from the speaker, the unpleasantness of slashing budgets and throwing people out of work.''
Another character admits: ''We try to do good, and sometimes we end up doing harm. We're the surgeon whose patient dies in the operating theater. Or worse, we don't even know if we did harm or whether things would've turned out even more disastrous without us.''
Yet Mr. Ghosh says he thinks the image of the I.M.F. as a heartless institution that cracks down on financially stricken nations is outdated. ''The I.M.F. has been rehabilitating its reputation in emerging market countries, especially Asia, since the Asian crisis by acknowledging where we were wrong -- but also, I think, drawing lessons about what we did right,'' he said.
The book also seems to capture the rhythms -- and tedium -- of economic diplomacy, poking fun at the predictable communiques from international financial gatherings: ''Celine saw that it was just a rehash of the usual stuff -- exhortations for greater international cooperation and coordination, admonitions for prudent monetary and fiscal policies -- and the idea of trudging through the same trite, tired phrases, trotted out each year like forgotten medals at a Veterans Day parade, filled her with revulsion.''
The plot is not so far-fetched. The financier George Soros forced the British pound off the European exchange-rate mechanism in 1992, which was followed by similar devaluations in Sweden and Italy. Currencies from South Korea to Thailand were brought down by hedge fund attacks in 1997-98.
With central banks intervening again to prevent currency appreciation as the Federal Reserve prepares to inject even more dollars into the economy, ''it might be that the zeitgeist favors this plot,'' said Sebastian Mallaby, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and himself an author of a nonfiction book on global financial wizardry: ''More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite,'' published in June.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Nineteenth Street NW,'' by the I.M.F. economist Atish Rex Ghosh, is in its second printing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WRITERS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (91%); GREECE (90%); TURKEY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



822 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: A Family's Misery, A Composer's Moment

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
It has been hard for supporters of New York City Opera to see this essential company humbled by administrative and financial crises in recent years. But George Steel, City Opera's tireless general manager and artistic director, has argued that it is more important now than ever for the institution to have a clear mission and to do adventurous work.
Mr. Steel has made good on that pledge with City Opera's vibrant new production of Leonard Bernstein's only full-length opera, ''A Quiet Place,'' which opened the company's season on Wednesday night at the David H. Koch Theater. Introduced in 1983 at the Houston Grand Opera, ''A Quiet Place'' was met with vehemently negative reviews. A thoroughly revised version fared somewhat better in subsequent stagings. Still, the opera has languished since and had never been tried out in New York, Bernstein's adopted hometown. 
Mr. Steel believed in the piece and found an ally in the director Christopher Alden, who last gave City Opera an inventive and sexy production of Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' He has now brought theatrical magic to his contemporary staging of ''A Quiet Place.'' The cast is terrific. Jayce Ogren, a young American conductor who recently completed a stint as an assistant at the Cleveland Orchestra, had an impressive City Opera debut, drawing a pulsing, sensitive and brilliant account of this stylistically far-ranging score from the orchestra.
The lingering criticism of ''A Quiet Place'' is that the piece is an awkward hybrid both musically and dramatically. This reflects the general criticism of Bernstein as a composer: that his head was so full of all kinds of music he could not find his own voice.
The structure of the opera is inevitable, given its genesis. Bernstein's first idea was to compose an operatic sequel to ''Trouble in Tahiti,'' his bleakly comic, jazzy one-act opera from 1952, with his own libretto. As originally conceived, the sequel, with a libretto by the director Stephen Wadsworth, showed what happened in later years to the sorry suburban family from the early work: the self-absorbed businessman Sam and his alcohol-dependent wife, Dinah. In ''A Quiet Place'' we meet Dede, the couple's flighty daughter, and Junior, their mentally troubled gay son, as well as Francois, Dede's husband and also (formerly or currently, we are not sure) Junior's lover.
After the failure of the Houston premiere, Bernstein and Mr. Wadsworth were persuaded to adapt ''A Quiet Place'' into a three-act work that incorporates ''Trouble in Tahiti'' as flashbacks in the second act. The musical mixing, however, seemed a hodgepodge to many.
But these days we are more accustomed to composers who juxtapose styles and draw from all idioms. Think of William Bolcom, John Adams and Osvaldo Golijov. In this production, ''A Quiet Place'' came across throughout as pure Bernstein. You hear his acute ear finding the right notes to make some piercing harmony. Mahlerian blasts are fractured with jagged, jazzy riffs. For someone who polemically criticized 12-tone music, Bernstein found his own way to fashion atonal elements to his own ends. And, of course, the bits of pop songs and jazz, like the swing trio that serves as a Greek chorus in the ''Trouble in Tahiti'' scenes, come through with authenticity. The orchestral prelude to Act III, with its layered chromatic counterpoint and yearning melodic lines, is Bernstein at his most sublime.
The problem is not the hybrid score but the dramatic pacing. There are some captivating arias and monologues in this work, but Bernstein milks them for too long. At more than three hours (with two intermissions) ''A Quiet Place'' is not that oversized for an opera. Still, it feels stretched out.
The back-and-forth dramatic quality of ''A Quiet Place'' is made much less problematic thanks to Mr. Alden's production, which has an integrated flow and consistently dark tone. It opens at a funeral parlor where guests, many of them jaded, are dealing with Dinah's death from an auto accident (perhaps a suicide). The spacious parlor has pale pinkish walls and looks both tacky and mesmerizing. Designed by Andrew Lieberman, the room becomes an effective unit set for the entire opera, including the flashbacks.
Mr. Alden draws nuanced performances from this gifted cast, dressed in vivid costumes by Kaye Voyce that scream ''suburban mall.'' The husky-voiced baritone Louis Otey was a blustery Sam, who emerges from near-catatonic silence at the funeral to denounce his feckless, alienated children when they finally arrive. The robust baritone Christopher Feigum was excellent as Young Sam, who feels stuck in his marriage and sneaks sex with his secretary. The appealing soprano Sara Jakubiak was a poignant Dede, struggling to be a free spirit and oblivious to the truth about her marriage to Francois, here the robust tenor Dominic Armstrong.
And the baritone Joshua Hopkins won your heart as the tormented, yet charming Junior. Mr. Alden has written that it was difficult to deal with this somewhat dated character: a gay man who is ''punished'' with mental illness. Yet Bernstein's music ennobles and animates Junior, and with his mix of anguish and vitality, Mr. Hopkins triumphed over stereotype.
The mezzo-soprano Patricia Risley brought an aching mix of fragility and wounded pride to Dinah, a ghostly figure at the funeral, who dominates the flashbacks. The whole cast was strong, especially Judith Christin as the hapless Susie and Victoria Livengood as the loud-mouthed Mrs. Doc, Dinah's co-dependent friends.
During the prolonged ovations, when Mr. Wadsworth (whose own production of ''Boris Godunov'' is currently at the Metropolitan Opera) took a bow, he made a moving gesture with his arm as if to embrace his missing colleague. If only Bernstein could have been there to see the reaction to his opera.
''A Quiet Place'' runs through Nov. 21 at the New York City Opera at the David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A music review on Friday about a performance of Leonard Bernstein's ''A Quiet Place'' by New York City Opera misstated the given name of the mezzo-soprano who sang the role of Mrs. Doc. She is Victoria Livengood, not Victorian.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Quiet Place: New York City Opera's staging of Bernstein's only full-length opera. (C1)
 From left, Judith Christin, Sara Jakubiak and Patricia Risley in Bernstein's ''A Quiet Place.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); THEATER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Quiet Place, A (Opera)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010



823 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: In House Race in Texas, a Spotlight on the Hispanic Vote

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- Representative Ciro D. Rodriguez, a Democrat from the working-class streets of south San Antonio, was buttonholing voters outside a library where early polling was being held, asking them for support in flawless Spanish.
''Don't you worry about Canseco,'' said one Latino man about Mr. Rodriguez's opponent, pumping the congressman's hand and speaking, like many of Mr. Rodriguez's constituents, in Spanish. ''We are with you. We are with you.''
''Tell your family members to vote, too,'' Mr. Rodriguez replied. Then he added in English, ''It's all about turnout.''
Hispanic Democrats usually have the upper hand in southern and western Texas, but this year Republicans are backing a conservative Hispanic businessman, Francisco Canseco, who they hope will split the Latino vote and carry the banner for white conservatives angry at President Obama's economic and health care policies. 
Mr. Canseco, a wealthy lawyer and developer who has allied himself with the antitax movement known as the Tea Party, has been buoyed in early voting by heavy turnout in Republican suburbs, where anger over spending in Washington is high.
Mr. Rodriguez, a veteran Democrat who has represented two districts here, has found himself fighting for his political life, struggling to wake up his working-class base and get them to the polls.
Though no independent polls have been done, both candidates and several political analysts say the race is too close to call.
The surge of support for Mr. Canseco mirrors what has happened elsewhere in the country where Latino Republicans have become not only champions for small-government conservatives but have also weakened Hispanic voters' allegiance to Democrats.
In Florida, a Hispanic Republican with Tea Party support, Marco Rubio, leads in a three-way race for Senate. And in New Mexico and Nevada, Latino Republicans are the front-runners for governor.
Most years, a Congressional race like this one would revolve around whether the incumbent had delivered federal projects or had pushed through policies benefiting local industries or other interests. But this is a year in which ideology trumps bringing home the bacon, and that spells trouble for Mr. Rodriguez, who is on the Appropriations Committee and has proved adept at obtaining projects for his constituents.
''We haven't really talked about the local issues,'' he said in an interview. ''It is really national politics that drives it. It's all about whether I'm close to Nancy Pelosi or not.''
Like many Republican challengers across the country, Mr. Canseco has tried to make the race a referendum on Congress's decisions to overhaul the health care system and to spend $787 billion to stimulate the economy. In one of his advertisements, Mr. Canseco drops a copy of the health care bill onto a piggy bank, while a large picture of Mr. Obama is shown. ''This is your family's nest egg,'' he says.
A banker and real estate developer from Laredo who is making his third run for Congress, Mr. Canseco, 61, has railed about the evils of deficit spending, repeated the Republican mantra that only tax cuts and deregulation can create jobs and promised to preserve the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy. ''We need to get government out of the hair of business,'' he said in an interview. ''It should not be the government running the economy.''
He has also tapped into the widespread fear of drug cartels that have undermined civil society in much of northern Mexico, saying the violence there is ''bleeding over'' into the United States and must be stopped with more law enforcement.
The two candidates are vying over a giant district, Texas' 23rd, which stretches more than 550 miles along the border from San Antonio to El Paso, taking in 20 counties and parts of both cities.
But most of the registered voters are in San Antonio, and the major battle is between the affluent, heavily Republican suburbs on San Antonio's northwest side and the working-class, heavily Democratic neighborhoods on the south side.
On paper, the district has more Democrats than Republicans, but the turnout is often heavier in Republican enclaves, depending on the year, local politicians say. That is one reason another Latino Republican, Henry Bonilla, managed to hold on to the seat for 14 years, until a court-ordered redrawing of the district in 2006 gave Democrats an edge. This year, local politicians say, voters are showing up in droves at early polling sites in Republican areas, as Tea Party protests have caught fire, in a sharp reversal of the Democratic wave in 2008.
On the stump, Mr. Rodriguez, who is 63, finds himself on the defensive. At a get-out-the-vote event this week, he tried to remind voters that much of the national debt resulted from former President George W. Bush's decision to borrow money to fight two wars while cutting taxes for the wealthy. He pointed out that he voted against the Wall Street bailout. He also defended the health care bill, arguing that the mandate to give insurance to everyone would save Texans money because they currently pay for the care of the indigent through property taxes.
''It's not perfect, but my God, Texas will probably benefit more than anyone else,'' he said, standing in front of a mariachi band in the backyard of a supporter.
On the air, the race has been ugly from the get-go. Mr. Rodriguez has shown ads calling Mr. Canseco ''a millionaire banker'' and ''a tax evader,'' accusing him of failing to pay $715,000 in state taxes and fees. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee paid for a similar ad, depicting Mr. Canseco as an outlaw in the Wild West.
Mr. Canseco, with help from the National Republican Campaign Committee, fired back with an ad depicting Mr. Rodriguez as a ''career politician'' who is ''desperately clinging to power'' and who backs higher taxes. ''The answer?'' Mr. Canseco says. ''Throw them out. Clean house.''
In the final week, both candidates are concentrating mostly on getting their loyal supporters to the polls rather than swaying undecided voters. Mr. Canseco is hitting retirement homes and holding get-out-the-vote parties in areas where he has support.
At Mr. Canseco's headquarters on the edge of an upscale suburb, dozens of volunteers, many of them self-described Tea Party activists, worked rows of telephones on Tuesday, calling likely Republican voters.
Mr. Canseco predicted the anger at Washington was so deep that Hispanic Democrats would switch parties to support him. ''They are conservative people,'' he said, ''and because of tradition they have been forced into the Democratic Party.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 30, 2010; November 2, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the race for the 23rd Congressional District in Texas referred incorrectly to the district's geography. The district encompasses all or part of 20 counties in southern and western Texas, including some along the Rio Grande River; it does not lie in the Rio Grande Valley, which refers to the lowland region near the mouth of the river. The article also misstated the location of Republican-dominated suburbs of San Antonio. They are on the northwestern side of San Antonio, not northeastern.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the role that the Hispanic vote may play in the race for the 23rd Congressional District in Texas misstated the given name of a Hispanic candidate in Florida who is the Republican nominee for the United States Senate. He is Marco Rubio, not Mark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Ciro D. Rodriguez, above right, a Democrat, at an event in San Antonio on Tuesday. His Republican challenger, Francisco Canseco, campaigned by phone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA KRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%)

PERSON: CIRO D RODRIGUEZ (92%); FRANCISCO CANSECO (90%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MARCO RUBIO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010



824 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Potash Shares Fall on Worries About BHP Deal

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN; Cyrus Sanati contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Investors seem to be growing nervous about the future of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan.
Shares of the company, the world's largest fertilizer maker, fell $4.79, or 3.25 percent, to $142.53 in New York trading despite the release of an unusually strong quarterly financial report. Some analysts attributed the decline to increasing speculation that the government of Canada might block a hostile $38.6 billion bid for Potash from BHP Billiton, the Australian mining company. 
The province of Saskatchewan -- home to both Potash, the company, as well as some of the world's largest deposits of potash, the mineral, increased pressure on the government this week to block the takeover.
The province is concerned that an acquisition by BHP would cut its tax revenues and royalty payments.
Both Saskatchewan and the Canadian government are controlled by right-of-center political parties. Before coming to Ottawa to meet with his federal counterparts earlier this week, Brad Wall, Saskatchewan's premier, cited recent remarks to an Australian newspaper by Don Argus, BHP's former chairman.
Last May, Mr. Argus told The Herald Sun of Melbourne that Australia should shun Canada's practice of allowing foreign companies to control natural resources.
''Australia needs to be most careful that it does not forfeit the economic merit of our resources sector,'' he said. The newspaper paraphrased Mr. Argus, who was chairman at the time, as saying that Canada had lost control over many of its crucial resources ''much to the detriment of the country.''
On Thursday, The Globe and Mail, a Toronto newspaper, reported that the federal government now ''appears to be swayed'' by Saskatchewan, although it did not offer a source within the government.
''There is a lot more noise coming out of Saskatchewan than anybody expected or wanted.'' said a person with knowledge of the negotiations between BHP and the government who did not wish to be identified because the person was not authorized to speak to the media.
Potash said Thursday that strong demand increased third quarter revenue by 43 percent, to $1.58 billion. Earnings were $402.7 million or $1.32 a share in the quarter, compared with $247.9 million or 82 cents a share a year earlier.
William J. Doyle, the president and chief executive of Potash, said that talks were under way with other potential bidders.
But during a telephone interview, he also suggested that the growth reflected in the quarterly results was a sign that shareholders would prosper even if the company was not sold.
''We're at the precipice of a new long-term period of growth,'' he said. ''The future upside will be reflected in our stock price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The province of Saskatchewan holds the world's largest deposits of potash, the mineral, and is home to the Potash Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID STOBBE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FERTILIZER MFG (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ROYALTIES (75%); MINES & MINING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); POLITICS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (92%); BHP BILLITON PLC (85%)

TICKER: POT (TSX) (92%); POT (NYSE) (92%); BLT (LSE) (85%); BIBLT (JSE) (85%); BBL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (92%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (92%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (85%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%) SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) CANADA (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



825 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Republican Sees Hope For Victory In San Jose

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Larry Pegram is trying to mount a comeback.
Mr. Pegram, 65, is a former police officer and a conservative Republican who served on Ronald Reagan's presidential transition team. He co-founded the Values Advocacy Council, which he calls ''a voice for Judeo-Christian values in policy matters in Silicon Valley,'' and he is seeking to reclaim a San Jose City Council seat he held three decades ago. 
On the surface, it would seem difficult for Mr. Pegram to be elected in the Bay Area, where the state legislative and Congressional delegations are wholly Democratic. But the fiscal crisis in Northern California's largest city has provided an opening for his brand of conservative politics.
''There's a definite change in public attitudes over the last five years,'' said Pat Sausedo, a vice president of the San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce. ''San Jose has suffered nine years of budget deficits.''
Political analysts see Mr. Pegram's candidacy as a local version of the Tea Party movement, with the economic crisis influencing voters to consider candidates who had previously been considered outside the political mainstream.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Pegram emphasizes his fiscal conservatism and plays down his views on social issues. He has worked against gay rights for more than 30 years, including an aborted effort to recall Ron Gonzales, the former mayor of San Jose, after Mr. Gonzales sought to extend health benefits to gay and lesbian city employees who were married in San Francisco.
''Social issues just don't play a role in decisions made in City Hall,'' Mr. Pegram said when he was asked about his support for Proposition 8, the measure banning same-sex marriage in California.
''The issues that face the City Council are fiscal issues, issues of service levels and future direction of the city as it deals with jobs and employment,'' he said, adding that San Jose this year faced a $118.5 million deficit.
Terry Christensen, a political science professor at San Jose State University who supports Mr. Pegram's Democratic opponent, Donald Rocha, said Mr. Pegram's candidacy was part of a ''turning of the tide away from more progressive, labor-backed candidates.'' He traced the trend to Mr. Gonzales, who was indicted on corruption charges in 2006. The charges were dropped in 2007.
The public reaction to that scandal helped elect a Republican, Pete Constant, to a Council that had previously been entirely Democratic. It also helped elect Chuck Reed, a fiscally conservative Democrat, as Mr. Gonzales's successor. This year, Mr. Reed endorsed Mr. Constant and Mr. Pegram in an effort to bring together allies who will support his efforts to cut costs in San Jose's government.
Wiggsy Sivertsen, co-founder of the Bay Area Municipal Elections Committee, a grass-roots group that supports candidates aligned with the gay and lesbian community, said she feared that electing Mr. Pegram would signal ''that issues of civil rights for everyone are not important, that all you need to do is vote your pocketbook.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITIES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MAYORS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (65%); MARRIAGE (64%); MARRIAGE LAW (64%); INDICTMENTS (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



826 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Strength of Inkjet Printer Sales Narrows Kodak's Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) -- Eastman Kodak narrowed its third-quarter loss to $43 million, lifted by inkjet printer sales and a big licensing deal with a digital camera business. 
Its earnings handily beat Wall Street expectations, driving its stock up more than 10 percent on Thursday.
The results offered glimmers of hope that Kodak, a pioneer in photographic film, is springing back from the economic downturn in its decade-long struggle to transform itself into a digital photography and printing company.
Still, analysts say the quarter also indicated that the company faces pricing pressures in the low-end digital camera business, competition from Hewlett-Packard and a slump in movie-film revenue.
The camera-licensing agreement with an undisclosed rival -- part of a Kodak drive to safeguard its rich array of 1,000-plus digital-imaging patents -- added about $210 million in gross profit to the quarter, Antonio M. Perez, Kodak's chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts.
Kodak's ability to generate licensing fees and royalties from intellectual-property disputes showed no sign of slowing, Mr. Perez said.
Kodak has said it expects to generate an average of $250 million to $350 million annually through 2011 from intellectual property. It has already booked $770 million this year. It is also suing Apple and Research In Motion over camera technology in their iPhone and BlackBerry smartphones.
Kodak lost the equivalent of 16 cents a share in the quarter, compared with a loss of $111 million, or 41 cents a share, a year earlier.
Sales fell 1 percent to $1.76 billion. But revenue from digital businesses rose 10 percent to $1.33 billion, propelled in part by a 26 percent jump in sales of consumer inkjet printers and ink.
Traditional film-based revenue slid 25 percent to $431 million from $572 million. Operating earnings in the photographic film, photofinishing and entertainment film unit narrowed to $20 million from $47 million.
Excluding items, Kodak said it lost $5 million, or 2 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected Kodak to lose 31 cents a share on sales of $1.61 billion.
Its shares closed at $4.58, up 61 cents, or 15.37 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (92%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (92%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); PATENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SMARTPHONES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: ANTONIO PEREZ (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



827 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead To the 2012 Race

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, DAMIEN CAVE, MONICA DAVEY, A. G. SULZBERGER, ADAM NAGOURNE, DAN FROSCH, KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
The 2012 presidential campaign is well under way -- if President Obama's effort to save Ohio's governor, or the train of Republican contenders rolling through Iowa, are any indication. This week alone, former Speaker Newt Gingrich, former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana are scheduled to campaign on behalf of Republicans in Iowa, and several others, including Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, have made recent appearances.
Once the returns, expected to be very happy for the Republicans, start coming in on Tuesday, the race before the race will only intensify.
On the eve of the 2010 midterms, here is what the landscape looks like for Mr. Obama (and some of his potential competitors) in nine states sure to play a decisive role in whether he is returned to office, states that he won but that John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic nominee, lost. 
COLORADO Approval Rating for Obama: 42 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 9.0 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
When Republican campaign ads hold out someone as the ghoul voters should run from, screaming in terror, it is much more likely to be Speaker Nancy Pelosi than President Obama.
While his approval ratings are not what they were, in a state where moderate and unaffiliated voters are increasingly the arbiters of elections, the news for Democrats peering ahead to 2012 is not completely bleak. In a CNN poll taken Oct. 20-26, 55 percent of moderates among the likely voters surveyed approved of the job Mr. Obama was doing.
If governors help presidents seeking re-election, then Colorado should be one glimmer of good news for the Democrats next week. John Hickenlooper, a Democrat who is the mayor of Denver, is expected to win the governor's race. (In a McClatchy/Marist poll taken in late September, more than one in eight of the registered voters who said they planned to vote for him were self-identified Republicans.)
As for the president's potential Republican rivals in 2012? Mitt Romney, who won the Republican caucuses here in 2008, would be expected to do well again, especially in Mormon areas in Colorado's western half. KIRK JOHNSON
FLORIDA Approval Rating for Obama: 41 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 2.8 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
Candidates across the state have distanced themselves from the president (especially Alex Sink, the Democratic candidate for governor), but Steven Schale, the Obama campaign director for Florida in 2008, said Florida could experience a repeat of the 1990s, when Bill Clinton lost both houses of Congress to a Republican wave, only to come back and carry Florida in his re-election bid.
He thinks the president has an advantage in Florida because the Republican Party has created a dynamic that favors its most conservative candidates.
''I don't see a Jim DeMint doing well,'' he said, referring to the South Carolina senator. ''I don't think a Sarah Palin does very well here. Both may draw huge crowds in parts of the state, but I don't think they have what it would take to win. It's the candidates the Republican Party is least likely to nominate -- they would be the ones who would win here.''
And even those more moderate candidates -- like Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, who was in Florida campaigning for Republicans last week -- may be pushed to the right by their party's primary. DAMIEN CAVE
INDIANA Approval Rating for Obama: 38 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 1.0 percentage point Race Profiles <check>
When Barack Obama won Indiana by 26,163 votes, he was the first Democratic presidential candidate to carry the state since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. But the landscape looks far different now. Democrats are in competitive House races and seem poised to lose the Senate seat Evan Bayh is retiring from. Bob Stephenson, the former Democratic Party chairman in Howard County, says that if Mr. Obama were to run today, he would lose. Kip Tew, a former state chairman of the party here, said the main problem was that no one had worked hard enough to convince Hoosiers that the administration's work was positive.
''I'm criticizing fellow Democrats who did not stand up and say why health care was good,'' he said. ''Hoosiers take their cues from moderates. And the moderates were nowhere to be found when it came to say what they thought of these programs. They were hiding out.''
What Republican might have a chance of winning here? Representative Mike Pence has polled strongly among conservatives. And Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, is increasingly being discussed for 2012. MONICA DAVEY
IOWA Approval Rating for Obama: 42 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 9.5 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
Iowa voters helped propel Mr. Obama to the Democratic nomination with a win in the nation's first 2008 caucuses.
Mr. Obama played to his history here last week when he formally endorsed Gov. Chet Culver, a Democrat who is seeking a second term, urging supporters in an e-mail message ''to give Chet the same effort this year that you gave to me in 2008.'' Mr. Culver, who trails in the polls, has publicly urged the president (unsuccessfully so far) to make a campaign stop on his behalf.
Nevertheless, last month the number of Iowans who said they disapproved of Mr. Obama's performance reached 50 percent for the first time, said J. Ann Selzer, an Iowa pollster. ''These aren't numbers an incumbent can sit on,'' she said. Among likely voters, the approval rating was 42 percent.
David M. Roederer, who headed the Bush and McCain campaigns in Iowa, said that he could not remember seeing so much Republican enthusiasm going into an election. ''The fact that he is perceived as getting his start here, that helps him somewhat,'' Mr. Roederer said of Mr. Obama. ''But it's not like it's our guy and we'll stick with him no matter what.'' A. G. SULZBERGER
NEVADA Approval Rating for Obama: 39 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 12.5 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
After Tuesday, there may be no better state to measure how tough a re-election battle President Obama faces.
His political fortunes -- and political machine -- mirror those of his friend Senator Harry Reid, who is struggling to win re-election.
The race offers the best test in the country between an organized political turnout operation developed by Bill Clinton's operatives (and nurtured by Mr. Reid) and the presumed organic grass-roots support of the Tea Party, which is backing Mr. Reid's opponent, Sharron Angle.
In Mr. Reid, Mr. Obama can see today the problems that he might have in two years: the state has the nation's highest unemployment, 14.4 percent, and animosity toward the health care legislation Mr. Obama proposed and Mr. Reid championed runs extremely high. ADAM NAGOURNEY
NEW MEXICO Approval Rating for Obama: 45 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 15.1 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
Barack Obama won handily here in 2008. He swept the Hispanic vote in the state's rural northern reaches and pulled enough support in its largest cities to crush Senator John McCain.
These days, that victory is virtually forgotten. An Albuquerque Journal poll from late August found that about a third of the state's heavily Hispanic population now disapproved of Mr. Obama's performance.
Hard economic times, coupled with disillusionment over the direction of the country, have contributed to Mr. Obama's dipping popularity. All of this points toward New Mexico's reverting to being a swing state in 2012.
Another factor for 2012: Susana Martinez, a Republican district attorney in a tight race with Lt. Gov. Diane Denish for governor, could swing some Democratic Hispanic voters red if she wins. DAN FROSCH
NORTH CAROLINA Approval Rating for Obama: 39 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 0.3 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
Shortly after Tuesday's election, the Democratic Party will be faced with one of its first major strategic decisions of President Obama's re-election campaign: where to hold its convention.
Charlotte, N.C., is a leading contender, as is St. Louis. But Mr. Obama's popularity in North Carolina has plunged since 2008, when he became the first Democrat to carry the state since 1976. If the party loses big on Tuesday, it may conclude that the state is a lost cause. (Republicans could take control of both houses of the state legislature here for the first time since Reconstruction.)
That would be bad news for the civic boosters in Charlotte but devastating for Mr. Obama, forcing him to bow to the reality that he had lost significant ground, especially among white voters, and suggesting that perhaps his success here in 2008 was a fluke. KATHARINE Q. SEELYE
OHIO Approval Rating for Obama: 42 percent Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 4.6 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
In Ohio, Democrats have sought Mr. Obama's presence for their campaign stops.
Indeed, Tim Burke, chairman of the Hamilton County Democratic Party, said he was ''extremely disappointed'' that Mr. Obama had not made it to Cincinnati, where Representative Steve Driehaus is struggling. ''Just about every Democrat in this county would fight to get the chance to stand next to him,'' Mr. Burke said of Mr. Obama.
One indication of Mr. Obama's standing, said Gene Beaupre, a political science professor at Xavier University in Cincinnati, is his near-absence in Republican ads. Most feature Nancy Pelosi, a sign that Republicans in Ohio are still reluctant to attack Mr. Obama.
''I think that he'll still be standing, almost regardless of what happens next Tuesday,'' Dr. Beaupre said. SABRINA TAVERNISE
VIRGINIA Approval Rating for Obama: Not available Obama's 2008 margin of victory: 6.3 percentage points Race Profiles <check>
Virginia was Mr. Obama's best Southern state in 2008, where he won a higher percentage of the vote than nationally. With its populous northern suburbs, and more rural south, Virginia is an important indicator of the direction of any national election.
''Obama will be in deep trouble if he can't carry Virginia again,'' said Larry J. Sabato, the director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. ''If he's losing Virginia, North Carolina and Florida have already gone.''
Right now, four Democratic congressmen are fighting to survive here, but in large parts of Virginia Mr. Obama has been seen as a potential liability. The president appeared at a campaign event in the affluent northern district of Representative Gerry Connolly, and plans an appearance with embattled Representative Tom Perriello in a gamble to lift his chances. SABRINA TAVERNISE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (58%); JOHN HICKENLOOPER (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



828 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s Moneyman

BYLINE: By MATT STILES. 
mstiles@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Over the last decade, two Republicans with the last name Perry have dominated the Texas political landscape. One is Rick, the state's longest-serving governor. The other is Bob (no relation), the state's largest individual political donor during that time. There is no close second.
Since 2000, Bob Perry, a wealthy Houston home builder, has contributed about $28 million to more than 400 candidates and political action committees in Texas, according to an analysis of campaign-finance data by The Texas Tribune.
Mr. Perry has been involved in campaigns at all levels, from gubernatorial races ($2.5 million to Rick Perry since 2000) to nonpartisan local contests ($30,000 to the former Houston mayor Bill White from 2003 to 2007). He has backed some Democrats, but he gives overwhelmingly to Republicans, who control state government. 
''He plays big, and he plays often,'' said Bill Miller, a principal in the Austin lobbying firm HillCo Partners, which represents Bob Perry's interests at the Capitol. '' 'Small' is not a word that's in his vocabulary.''
Since 2000, Mr. Perry has also contributed at least $38 million more to candidates and groups outside Texas. That includes $10 million to the Republican Governors Association, according to data provided by the Center for Resonsive Politics.He gave $4.4 million to the Swift Boat Veterans campaign that attacked the Vietnam War record of Senator John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee. Last week, he made headlines by giving $7 million to American Crossroads, a group founded by Karl Rove, the political strategist and fellow Texan, that has attacked, among other incumbent Democrats, Representative Chet Edwards, Democrat of Waco.
The American Crossroads gift pushed Mr. Perry's 2010 nationwide total past $15 million, about $4.5 million of which made its way directly to state-level candidates and committees. The largest recipients were the governor ($1.1 million); the tort-reform advocacy group Texans for Lawsuit Reform ($250,000); the PAC established by Mr. Miller's firm ($200,000); and Larry Gonzales, a Republican candidate for the Texas House ($200,000).
Mr. Perry's generosity -- and impact -- is possible because Texas law does not limit donations by individuals to candidates, unlike at the federal level. More than a dozen recipients of his contributions got more than $50,000 in the aggregate as of late October. The average amount is about $34,000, the data showed.
While Mr. Perry, who turns 78 on Saturday, is a high-level player in Republican politics, he is something of an enigma even to insiders, many of whom decline to talk about him publicly. He shuns the limelight, never granting news media interviews (including for this article), and he rarely appears at political events. The causes he has supported include the successful movement to limit damages from tort claims and creation of a state agency to handle complaints against home builders.
His beliefs are not always in line with conservative orthodoxy. He favors affirmative action, for example, and has softer views on immigration issues than many in the Republican Party. His official biography says he supports ''finding an immigration solution that gives hope to those that need it most.''
Unlike some other big givers, Mr. Perry is known for not directly asking candidates and elected officials for anything in exchange for his donations. ''He's an honorable man,'' said Cathie Adams, a former national Republican delegate and state party chairwoman. ''Candidates look at the donations as a strong message that they're doing a good job.''
But to some others, his end goals include self-interests. Andy Wilson, a campaign-finance researcher at the liberal watchdog group Public Citizen Texas, said he believed that Mr. Perry's largesse was about creating a climate in which businesses -- including his own -- could thrive.
''Bob Perry gives to specific kinds of conservatives, and no one, outside of maybe Karl Rove, has helped shape the 'ideal' conservative Republican candidate in Texas,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''He certainly is getting something that's helping him protect his bottom line as a home builder.''
Bobby Jack Perry was born in rural Bosque County, the son of a high school principal. After earning a history degree at Baylor University, Mr. Perry taught high school and coached football before moving into construction, settling in Houston in the late 1960s. He earned his fortune by founding Perry Homes. Among the nation's largest residential builders, the company, based in Houston, had more than $560 million in revenue in 2008, according to Builder, a trade publication. Mr. Perry and his wife, Doylene (whose name often appears on the political checks), have four grown children.
Mr. Perry became a fixture in Texas politics in the mid-1980s, but he began spending large sums, and gaining more notice, only in the last decade. His influence grew as Republicans took over the Texas House in 2003 for the first time since Reconstruction, and his desire to fight the power of trial lawyers continued. His political spending peaked in 2006, when he gave nearly $20 million to campaigns and committees in Texas and nationwide.
Mr. Perry does have competition on the other side of the ideological spectrum. Trial lawyers, for example, have spent more than $13 million this political cycle, according to an analysis by Texans for Lawsuit Reform. Much of that cash, about $7 million, came from Steve Mostyn, a wealthy Houston trial lawyer, records show.
Mr. Mostyn, now the Democrats' best donor, said Mr. Perry's spending had prompted him to get more involved. He created the Back to Basics political action committee, which has attacked the governor in advertisements during this year's campaign.
''There's got to be a counterbalance,'' Mr. Mostyn said.
Tort-reformers retort that lawyers like Mr. Mostyn want to roll back efforts to restrict lawsuits and limit damages -- changes that they said helped keep the economy in Texas humming.
Mr. Perry's critics most often point to his involvement with the Texas Residential Construction Commission, a state agency created in 2003 to regulate the home building industry. His corporate counsel helped craft the legislation that endowed the commission with its powers, and the governor later appointed the attorney to help manage the agency, which was shuttered last fall after lawmakers failed to finance it. Consumer groups had attacked the commission -- which had been presented as a venue for protecting home owners -- as lacking the power to address complaints of shoddy construction.
Supporters of Mr. Perry said his legacy was that of a charitable donor who had devoted tens of millions of dollars to educational causes and to helping children -- not politics. His official biography notes his sponsorship of facilities like Casa Hogar, an orphanage in Matamoros, Mexico, that houses more than 100 abused, abandoned or neglected children. Mr. Perry's political donations, supporters said, arise from a similar sense of civic duty.
''He believes in being active, in both voting and aiding where one can, but also in charitable concerns and the electoral process,'' said Anthony Holm, Mr. Perry's spokesman. ''He loves the republic.''
Whatever his motivation, Mr. Perry is a force. In 2002, he gave at least $300,000 in direct contributions to the 20 most-competitive legislative races, and most of those candidates won.
His record since has been mixed. In the 2008 election cycle, for example, Mr. Perry spent more than $700,000 in the highest-profile legislative races. Some of those candidates lost.
''People like him are just going to chalk that up to the cost of doing business,'' said Harold Cook, a Democratic political consultant.
This election cycle, Mr. Perry and groups he has financed have spent similar sums on the hottest race, like Mr. Gonzales's effort to unseat State Representative Diana Maldonado, Democrat of Round Rock, a freshman in a swing district.
Mr. Gonzales has worked for tort-reform advocates in the past as a political consultant, but he said he had never spoken to Mr. Perry. He appreciates the support, however.
''It's confirmation for me,'' Mr. Gonzales said, ''that I'm the pro-business candidate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry, a beneficiary of the largesse of Bob Perry, top, campaigned Oct. 21 in Conroe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC S. SWIST/THE COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
RANDAL FORD) CHART: Donations Over Time: Bob Perry has donated at least $65 million to political campaigns and political action committees since 2000. (Sources: Federal Election Commission
Texas Ethics Commission
 OpenSecrets.org) (A21B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TORT REFORM (74%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); TORTS (61%); LITIGATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); KARL ROVE (58%); DONNA F EDWARDS (58%); CHET EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



829 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Dude, Can I Have My Parody Back?

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The country long ago stopped wondering whether a president demeans his office by appearing on a late-night comedy show. The more immediate question posed by President Obama's appearance on ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' on Wednesday is whether a political satirist loses credibility when hobnobbing with a sitting president.
When Mr. Obama said, ''Jon, I don't want to lump you in with a lot of other pundits,'' Mr. Stewart smirked. Yet it wasn't an outlandish remark, it was a pointed one. At that moment, asking about the inadequacies of health care reform across a desk on a stage set in Washington, Mr. Stewart looked and sounded a lot like a lot of other pundits. His questions put him somewhere between Diane Sawyer and Jay Leno, with perhaps a touch of Joy Behar of ''The View.'' 
Mr. Stewart, after all, built his popularity and stature by wittily skewering politicians and journalists of all stripes, without fear, favor or deference. And despite all the adulation and numbingly solemn accolades (New York magazine recently anointed the last 10 years ''The Jon Stewart Decade'') Mr. Stewart has managed to maintain his mock anchor's seditious mien. Though he can sometimes turn righteous on other people's shows (as he did on ''Crossfire'' in 2004), on his own Mr. Stewart is playful, self-mocking and merciless.
He did manage to needle Mr. Obama a little, teasingly retorting, ''And I don't mean to lump you in with other presidents.'' He even called the president ''dude'' after the president inadvertently echoed a famous George W. Bush gaffe by saying that his economic adviser Lawrence H. Summers had done ''a heck of a job.'' Mr. Obama winced ruefully as the audience laughed at his wording and Mr. Stewart said, ''You don't want to use that phrase, dude.''
Mr. Stewart made other jokes on Wednesday, but it was actually more disconcerting to watch Mr. Stewart apply the standard liberal critique to Mr. Obama than it was to see the president of the United States bandy words with the host of a late-night comedy show. Mr. Obama, after all, is more practiced, having set precedents with similar star turns when visiting David Letterman, Mr. Leno and the women of ''The View.''
And their relative levels of experience showed. Mr. Stewart has interviewed plenty of presidential candidates but never a sitting president. The last time he spoke to Mr. Obama was via satellite on Oct. 29, 2008, just before the Democratic nominee was preparing to hold a political rally in Florida. This time it was Mr. Stewart who is preparing to hold a political gathering, the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear that he and his fellow Comedy Central host Stephen Colbert are holding on the National Mall on Saturday.
The rally, which Mr. Stewart has referred to as the ''million moderate march,'' is in some ways a bigger milestone for him than the Obama interview. It has ratcheted up his identity as a mock journalist engage, a semi-serious activist sending a message by sending up the extremism of the left and right (though this rally mostly lampoons the Tea Party happening that Glenn Beck held in Washington on the anniversary of the 1963 march on Washington led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.) Fans and critics sometimes worry that Mr. Stewart will get too preachy on Saturday, but so far he has presented it as more of a prank -- raillery dressed up as rally.
Mr. Stewart's presidential interview was on Comedy Central, but it could have almost as easily been on CNN or MSNBC. Mr. Obama laughed at Mr. Stewart's jokes and delivered a few of his own, but mostly he stayed on pre-election message; he plugged a few imperiled House Democrats by name and even commandeered the end of the show to urge viewers to turn out on Tuesday.
Mr. Stewart seemed to feel that he needed to voice the concerns of liberals who are disappointed in Mr. Obama's legislative record -- one he described as ''timid'' -- instead of coming up with more offbeat questions of his own. And the president, who had earlier in the day answered questions from radio-talk-show hosts and liberal bloggers, easily parried Mr. Stewart's complaints about the lack of real change in Washington. As is his wont, he gave long, reasoned answers about the economy, unemployment and populist frustration that Mr. Stewart couldn't or wouldn't interrupt. Sometimes Mr. Stewart showed his own frustration by making fun of his inability to get a word in, interjecting in a high, squeaky whine, ''It's just been hard not to talk.''
Mr. Stewart usually has no trouble interrupting or getting the better of his most celebrated guests, but even he didn't want to push too far when face to face with the commander in chief.
Sometimes the only thing worse than not getting a newsworthy interview with a major figure is getting it. Access is everything in Washington, but it can be the bane of political satire.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama facing off with Jon Stewart on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); POLITICS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); WRITERS (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JAY LENO (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); DIANE SAWYER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: The Daily Show (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



830 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: This Time Around, Both Parties Rarely Mention Wars

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have dominated American foreign policy for the past nine years, but debate about them is all but absent from this year's midterm election campaigns.
From Wilmington to Cleveland to Seattle, as Republicans try to wrest control of Congress from Democrats, the subjects barely come up. Ditto for President Obama's stump speech as he zigzags around the country.
He often alludes to Iraq, albeit briefly. ''Because of you, there are 100,000 young men and women who are returning home from Iraq -- because of you,'' Mr. Obama said Monday in Providence, R.I. But he does not mention Afghanistan on the campaign trail -- nor, for the most part, do his Republican opponents. 
Both Democrats and Republicans appear to have decided that talking about the wars is not in their best interest. Democrats are divided on the war, and do not want to air internal divisions in a year when they have so many other problems. Republicans are unified in support of the war in Afghanistan and Mr. Obama's decision to send more troops there, but see no need to stress an issue on which they are more or less allied with him.
In any case, Republicans certainly do not want to distract attention from the economy, which is working for them as an issue. In addition, Democrats and Republicans have spent more than $1 trillion on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001 -- not the ideal topic to bring up on a campaign trail that is dominated by concern about the budget deficit and the unemployment rate.
The lack of focus on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars is a big shift from the 2008 and 2006 election cycles. In 2006, Democrats used voter unhappiness with the Bush administration's conduct of the Iraq war to help them gain control of Congress. In 2008, Mr. Obama stood out from the Democratic field for his early opposition to the Iraq war and his position that the United States should focus more on Afghanistan, and the wars played a key part in the general election campaign until the economy became dominant in the closing stages.
''The big strategic consideration is that the electorate is energized over jobs, not over the war right now,'' said Peter D. Feaver, a former national security aide to President George W. Bush.
Even in 2006, when the war in Iraq was foremost on the minds of the voting public, Mr. Feaver said the White House assessment was that the economy had as big an impact on how Americans were thinking as the Iraq war.
For the White House, the lack of a real foreign policy issue to fight with Republicans about during this campaign season is both a blessing and a curse.
Republicans sided with Mr. Obama's decision to increase the number of troops in Afghanistan, though not necessarily with his call to begin bringing them home next summer. And while liberal Democrats are unhappy with Mr. Obama's decision to escalate the fight in Afghanistan, they have yet to challenge the White House over the issue in a concerted way.
''I think the president is an ironic beneficiary of the success of Bush's Iraq war surge,'' said Charles Cook, publisher of The Cook Political Report and an independent analyst of Congressional races. At the time that Mr. Bush ordered more troops to Iraq, many foreign policy experts argued that it was a move bound to fail. It did not. ''So the Afghan surge is getting a honeymoon of some time,'' Mr. Cook said.
But Afghanistan, political analysts say, will almost certainly be a campaign issue in 2012. By then, it will be clear whether Mr. Obama's troop surge in Afghanistan, and his decision to begin bringing troops home next summer, have worked. The president will probably have to fend off challenges from both the right and the left on Afghanistan. From the right, some Republicans -- possibly backed by the president's own military commanders -- may argue for staying the course in Afghanistan, and for holding off on withdrawing American troops.
Meanwhile, from the left, some Democrats may push the opposite way, arguing that the United States should abandon its troop-heavy counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan that seeks to protect the population, and move instead to a counterterrorism strategy that focuses on pounding Al Qaeda and other insurgents, using far fewer troops.
In Missouri, Tommy Sowers, a Democrat who is a former Green Beret, has made pulling out of Afghanistan war a major part of his battle to unseat Representative Jo Ann Emerson, a Republican.
For Mr. Obama, ''if you have any problems with your flank going into re-election, it becomes a big problem,'' said Mr. Cook, recalling that Senator Edward M. Kennedy's primary challenge in 1980 helped to undermine President Jimmy Carter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (71%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



831 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Fate In Re-election Could be Tied To Ohio Races

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- The most politically important state in America, at least in the eyes of the White House, is Ohio. President Obama arrives this weekend for one last rally of the campaign season, his 12th visit since taking office and his second in only two weeks.
But the attention might be as much about Mr. Obama's own political fortunes as about the 2010 midterm election. 
Even as party leaders in Washington leave some vulnerable Democrats to fend for themselves in the final days of the campaign and scramble to shore up incumbents who might be more viable, one candidate is being given particular assistance: Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, who is in a difficult battle for re-election.
The reason is not simply that he still has a chance of winning. For Mr. Obama, the fate of Mr. Strickland could be very much tied to his own, since a Republican in the Ohio governor's seat could make his re-election to the presidency in 2012 that much more complicated.
Ohio is one of nine states where Mr. Obama expanded the Democratic map in the last presidential election, and his advisers believe the electoral votes here are likely to be among the most critical to assure his return to the White House. Republicans do not disagree and have used that argument in the final stages of the midterm election campaign as a motivating factor.
John Kasich, a former Republican congressman who is running for governor, said in an interview on Thursday that ''Strickland and Obama have the same philosophy.'' He urged voters to think of the implications beyond the governor's contest and he asked Republican leaders to amplify the point, which Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, the head of the Republican Governors Association, has done in a video message here.
''This election on Nov. 2 is a critical step in determining whether Barack Obama is going to be re-elected president of the United States,'' said Mr. Barbour, who is among the Republicans considering running for president. ''We can't wait until 2012 to start taking our country back. We've got to win starting this November, and Ohio is the place that we start.''
The Ohio governor's race also offers a case study for how Democrats will fare for openly embracing the president, a gesture that has become an exception rather than the rule among many of the party's most endangered candidates. The White House has tried to play a more significant role in races for governor in other battleground states, particularly Florida, but few Democrats have welcomed Mr. Obama as warmly as Mr. Strickland has.
''I don't think you win elections by running away from your friends,'' Mr. Strickland said, pointing to a recovery in the auto industry and construction jobs created by the economic stimulus plan. ''Ohio has benefited from the help we've received from the president and our Democratic friends in Congress. Why would I want to run away from those accomplishments?''
Ohio began the year as a land of opportunity for Democrats to hold their majority in the House, Senate and in key governorships. It has become a field of uphill battles for candidates, embodying the challenges facing the party across the country. Yet the outsized attention being paid to the governor's race has only highlighted the disparity among Democratic candidates here.
Representative Steve Driehaus, who represents Ohio's First Congressional District, was elected in 2008 when Mr. Obama led the ticket. He voted for the key elements of Mr. Obama's agenda, including the health care overhaul and the economic stimulus package.
This month, Mr. Driehaus became the first Democrat to fall victim to a triage of endangered incumbents by party leaders, which deeply cut his television advertising and dashed any hopes that Mr. Obama would come and help rally voters.
''I am not going to lose sleep over the president being here or not being here,'' said Mr. Driehaus, whose district on the state's southern edge is about 250 miles from Cleveland, where Mr. Obama will visit twice this month. ''I think it's a mistake for him to ignore Cincinnati. Cincinnati was here for him in 2008, but we are going to win with him or without him.''
Republicans believe that they are positioned for a strong finish in Ohio on Tuesday, with the potential to gain as many as five Congressional seats, all of which were claimed by Democrats over the last two election cycles as the party expanded its majority. And Democrats have all but given up on the idea of winning the seat of George V. Voinovich, a Republican senator who is retiring.
The political climate has become so challenging for some Democrats that even Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a former mayor of Cleveland who represents one of the party's safest districts, is sufficiently concerned about his re-election that he sent out an urgent appeal this week to supporters, saying, ''I need your help.''
The Ohio campaigns have unfolded against the backdrop of persistently high unemployment; the state's jobless rate of 10 percent in September is higher than the national average of 9.6 percent. There has been no greater issue, particularly in the race for governor, than restoring some of the 400,000 jobs that have been lost here over the last four years.
The contest between Mr. Strickland and Mr. Kasich, which is rated as a tossup by The New York Times and other independent rankings, has become more competitive in the closing days, according to aides to both candidates. Mr. Strickland cut into a lead that Mr. Kasich held over the summer.
The fight for Ohio is now expected to hinge on which side has the better voter-turnout operation. For the Democrats, the weekend visits by Mr. Obama, along with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and former President Bill Clinton, are a large component of that plan.
''There is nothing that could be done that isn't being done,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''These rallies help communicate to people who are my supporters -- or who should be my supporters -- the importance of this race and the importance of voting.''
As Mr. Kasich traveled across the northeastern corner of Ohio on Thursday, he said the high-profile Democratic visitors had become a motivating force for Republicans, too.
''There's nothing I can do about it,'' Mr. Kasich said. ''Biden's basically been living here and Clinton and Obama are coming back again. They see it as their firewall. They are throwing everything they have at me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters leaned over a truck bed to talk about Gov. Ted Strickland after his speech at the Democratic headquarters in Akron. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
John Kasich, left, a Republican running for Ohio governor, spoke to supporters at a restaurant in Avon Lake. Governor Strickland, right, in a difficult battle for re-election, vowed to keep jobs in Ohio, before the International Union of North America in Canton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CASE STUDIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); TED STRICKLAND (90%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); JOHN KASICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



832 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Sales Rise 23% at Dow, Easing Loss In Earnings

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Dow Chemical Company said Thursday that its third-quarter earnings fell less than analysts had expected as sales of specialty products and commodity plastics increased.
Net income fell 25 percent, to $597 million, or 45 cents a share, from $799 million, or 63 cents a share, a year earlier, Dow said. Profit excluding some items was 54 cents a share, topping the 41-cent average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. 
Dow bought the Rohm and Haas Company last year to add specialty chemical units that deliver higher, consistent earnings. Adjusted profit rose 30 percent in the company's performance systems and performance products units, which make auto plastics and foams, construction cable and heat-transfer fluids. Profit also rose in basic chemicals and plastics.
Net income in the quarter was reduced by 9 cents a share from costs to integrate Rohm and Haas, an adjustment on the sale of the Styron unit, labor litigation in Latin America and debt refinancing costs, said Bob Plishka, a spokesman for Dow. Asset sales and other one-time items increased earnings in the third quarter of last year by 39 cents a share.
Overall sales rose 23 percent, to $12.9 billion. Excluding divestitures, revenue gained in all of Dow's operating segments, as the company raised average prices 9 percent and volumes rose 14 percent from a year earlier. Higher prices more than made up for a $585 million increase in costs for energy and raw materials, Dow said.
Sales gains were led by a 27 percent increase in North America, a 24 percent rise in Latin America and a 23 percent increase in the region that includes Europe. Sales in emerging economies climbed 19 percent to more than $4 billion, a company record, Dow said.
''A sustained global economic recovery, led by emerging economies, is firming,'' Andrew N. Liveris, the chief executive, said in a statement. ''We are also encouraged to see signs of improved growth in North America and Europe, especially Germany.''
Shares of Dow, which is based in Midland, Mich., fell 35 cents, to $30.86.
End markets like electronics, coatings and packaging ''continue to show strength'' in the face of high unemployment and weak construction spending, Mr. Liveris said. Growth in developed markets will slow ''slightly'' from the first half, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PLASTICS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PLASTICS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); LITIGATION (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (95%); ROHM & HAAS CO (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (95%); DOW (NYSE) (95%); DOW (LSE) (95%); 4850 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (76%) EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (76%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



833 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Soft Earnings Reports Produce Mixed Results

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks struggled to a mixed finish on Thursday after weak earnings news from 3M and other companies weighed on the market.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 12 points, but broader indexes posted slight gains. The market rose steadily in the opening moments of trading after a surprise drop in first-time claims for unemployment benefits, pushing the Dow up as much as 53 points. 
3M set a negative tone with a downbeat view on the economy and a lower forecast for full-year earnings. 3M's dim assessment of the economies in the United States and Europe was a reminder that growth in many developed nations remained weak. 3M, which makes everything from Post-it notes to Scotch tape, called growth in those regions ''uninspiring.'' Its shares fell 6.4 percent.
Apple fell about 1 percent after warning in a regulatory filing that profit margins might narrow next year. Colgate-Palmolive also said it expected sales growth to slow next year.
Not all the corporate news was bad. Eastman Kodak rose 15.4 percent after saying more customers turned to home and office printers, and Motorola said its phone division was profitable for the first time in three years.
Avon Products sank 5.6 percent after reporting surprisingly poor results from emerging markets. The beauty products seller said weakness in Brazil and Russia hurt quarterly profits.
The pharmaceutical companies Bayer and Sanofi-Aventis, as well as the automaker Hyundai Motor, began earnings reports worldwide with upbeat results, sending stocks higher overseas before markets opened in the United States.
A surprise drop in claims for unemployment insurance provided the most encouragement about the economy. Claims fell to their lowest level in three months, bolstering hopes that companies might increase hiring soon.
The Dow fell 12.33 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 11,113.95.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.33 points to 1,183.78, while the Nasdaq composite rose 4.11 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,507.37.
The dollar was broadly lower against other currencies, while commodities prices mostly rose. Gold rose $19.90 to $1,342.50 an ounce.
Bond prices rose. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 16/32, to 99 22/32, and the yield fell to 2.66 percent from 2.72 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (91%); SANOFI SA (82%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (66%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (91%); MMM (NYSE) (91%); MMM (FRA) (91%); SNY (NYSE) (82%); SANF (BIT) (82%); SAN (PAR) (82%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (82%); HYUD (LSE) (66%); 005380 (KSE) (66%); CL (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); AVP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (91%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (66%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010



834 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Does Competition Benefit Health Insurance Subscribers?

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Whether more competition creates better health-insurances choices in a local market is not so simple to establish, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
How does competition work in the health insurance market? Do more competitors in a market area - say, a state - invariably mean a better deal for the insured?
These questions are germane as regulators are busy implementing the Affordable Care Act, which imposes a series of stringent new regulations on the market for health insurance, particularly the market for small-group or individually purchased insurance. 
After months of hard work, for example, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners on Oct. 21 submitted to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, its recommendations for defining the minimum loss ratio that health insurers must meet as of Jan. 1.
As I noted in two earlier posts on the ratio, it expresses what portion of the premiums collected by insurers must be paid out in the form of "medical benefits." For insurance sold in the small-group or individual insurance market, the portion must be at least 80 percent. For insurance sold in the large-group market it must be at least 85 percent.
One can debate whether, with properly conducted health insurance exchanges, this regulation of the minimum-loss ratio was actually necessary. I think not, because if both the benefits and the premium for them are clearly stated, I can comparison-shop. It's not important for me to know how insurers allocate the premium.

But if it were to be imposed, it should have been phased in gradually, over, say, four years or so, as was done with the Medicare prospective payment system for hospitals introduced under the Reagan administration in the mid-1980s and the Medicare physician-fee schedule introduced by the George H.W. Bush administration in the early 1990s.
If major changes in the health system are imposed rapidly, they tend to generate untoward and sometimes unanticipated side effects that must then be addressed with ad hoc waivers or other adjustments, such as the esoteric "credibility adjustment" of the minimum-loss ratio, whose details most readers of this blog probably wish to be spared.
Now that the regulation is on the books, one wonders what impact it will have on the number of insurers competing in the market and what effect their numbers will have on the insured.
In a letter submitted to the insurance commissioners in May, the Council for Affordable Health Insurance reminded the commissioners that these states' traditional "standards for individual-market loss ratios vary between 55 to 65 percent, depending on the type of plan." The council, as well as the American Health Insurance Plans, argues that the effect of the regulation will be to drive many small insurers from the market and thus to reduce competition for health insurance.
I have no doubt that this prediction is on the mark.
The question is whether a reduction in the number of insurers in a given market area invariably is to the disadvantage of the insured. On this point one's memories of Econ 101 can be quite misleading.
The narrative in Econ 101 centers on a producer of the legendary "widgets," a standard, mass-produced, imaginary product whose characteristics satisfy all the conditions required for perfectly competitive product markets. Students are then shown convincingly that if only one producer offers widgets in the market - a monopoly - the price of widgets will be far above what it would be in a perfectly competitive market and the volume sold much below the competitive benchmark.
Things are a bit better for the buy side when there are a few producers-sellers - what we call an oligopoly - but widget prices will still be above the competitive benchmark and volume below it, especially when the oligopolistic sellers cooperative formally or informally.
Buyers will find the lowest conceivable widget price and can buy the largest number of them under perfect competition, in which many sellers and buyers interact and arbitrate, and market entry, as well as exit, is easy and cheap for the sellers.
One can see why, when this narrative is grafted onto the market for health insurance, the conclusion emerges that the more sellers in the insurance market, the cheaper health insurance and health care must be for the insured.
Evidently, President Obama and his Congressional allies profess to believe the narrative, as they advocate the public-insurance option or at least new nonprofit insurance cooperatives. Representatives of the insurance industry profess to believe the narrative as well. Perhaps most people actually do. In an editorial on Tuesday, The Wall Street Journal appears to deplore the likely shrinking of the number of insurers doing business in the United States (roughly 1,200), even though, as noted above, many small insurers pay out only 55 to 65 cents of every premium dollar they collect in medical benefits. 
But is the facile Econ 101 narrative actually apt for the health insurance market of the real world?
That market does not trade in widgets. It trades in immensely complicated financial contracts that bundle into one deal a number of distinct product lines. Ideally, these product lines include:
1. A transfer of much or all of the financial risk of ill health from the insured to the insurer, facilitated by the statistical miracle of risk pooling; 
2. Claims processing.
3. Management consulting services to help patients manage their health, including disease management.
4. Purchasing of health care on behalf of the insured, including:
Some widget that is! The premium paid by the insured can be thought of as a bundled payment for all of these distinct services.
So the question is whether production costs of each of these distinct product lines, and the prices that consumers are charged for them, will necessarily fall as the number of health insurers in a market rises. Do they? 
I will explore this question in the next post.

        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills
        
In Massachusetts We Trust
        
Health Care Aside, Fewer Jobs Than in 2000
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MEDICARE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Economix

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (54%); GEORGE H W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



835 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Yemen Emerges as Base for Qaeda Attacks on U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Not long ago, most Americans had scarcely heard of Yemen, the arid, Texas-size country in the southern corner of the Arabian peninsula.
But on Friday, as news emerged of a plot to send explosives in courier packages from Yemen to synagogues in Chicago, the world's attention was focused once again on the threats brewing in Yemen's lawless, strife-torn hinterlands, where American citizens appear to be helping the local branch of Al Qaeda take aim at the United States.
It was the second time in less than a year: on Dec. 25, a Nigerian trained in Yemen tried to detonate a bomb on a commercial flight as it approached Detroit, and Al Qaeda took credit for the attempt. The American-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki had been in contact with the would-be bomber, and some analysts believe the latest effort may also be linked to Mr. Awlaki, a charismatic preacher who remains in hiding in Yemen and has issued threats by Internet. 
In recent months, American intelligence officials have grown increasingly concerned about Yemen, despite a renewed cooperation on counterterrorism with the Yemeni authorities in the past year. Al Qaeda's regional arm, which went quiet for several months after a series of American airstrikes in Yemen that began last December, has become more active since the spring, and has killed several dozen Yemeni soldiers and police officers.
The group has also stepped up its recruitment drive on the Internet, issuing an English-language magazine that includes articles with titles like ''Make a Bomb in Your Mother's Kitchen.'' The most recent issue of the magazine, ''Inspire,'' was published last month and includes an article by an American citizen named Samir Khan titled ''I am Proud to be a Traitor to America.'' Mr. Khan, who grew up in North Carolina and New York City, is believed to have joined Al Qaeda's Yemeni branch last year.
One important reason for the rising concern about Yemen is the presence of Americans like Mr. Awlaki and Mr. Khan.
It is not clear how many Americans are working with Al Qaeda in Yemen, a group that is believed to comprise several hundred members, including some from Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries. The group is mostly based in the lawless provinces to the east of Yemen's capital, Sana, but has carried out attacks in the capital as well.
''These are people with both access to explosives and knowledge of how the United States works,'' said Bernard Haykel, a professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton University who has written on Yemen. ''And in Yemen, you can walk into a local branch of FedEx and mail something to the U.S. You can't do that in Somalia or in rural Afghanistan.''
Al Qaeda's Yemen-based branch, which calls itself Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, does not consider the United States a key target, intelligence officials and analysts say. The group has tried repeatedly to strike at Saudi Arabia, and says it aims to topple the Yemeni and Saudi governments.
But attacking the United States draws broader publicity, and may be helpful with recruiting. Al Qaeda's regional arm took credit for a suicide attack on the American Embassy in Sana in September 2008 that left 16 people dead, including the six attackers. There have been other, less deadly attacks on other foreign embassies in Yemen's capital.
The United States government's relationship with Yemen has been troubled by mutual suspicion. The country has long been a haven for jihadists, who were welcomed there after returning from fighting the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the 1980s. After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Yemeni government cracked down on many jihadists, but also maintained relationships with them, paroling some convicted terrorists and cultivating radical clerics. American officials complained; Yemeni officials defended their approach as necessary pragmatism in a country where hard-line Islamist views are common.
Last year American officials showed Yemen's longtime president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, intelligence reports indicating that Al Qaeda was singling out him and his family members, many of whom hold senior government positions. After that, Mr. Saleh redoubled his commitment to fighting Al Qaeda, and allowed the United States to launch airstrikes on Yemeni terrain.
But Al Qaeda's presence has also led the United States to vastly increase its military and economic assistance to Yemen, and many Yemeni and American analysts say they fear that Mr. Saleh has a financial interest in maintaining some level of threat in his country.
Another source of concern is the rising chaos of Yemen, which has a fast-growing, desperately poor population of 23 million and is running out of water.
The country's meager oil reserves, a key source of revenue for the government, are also running dry. The government has limited control outside of major cities, where powerful tribes hold sway and are sometimes willing to shelter Qaeda members. An intermittent rebellion in Yemen's northwest has created a humanitarian crisis; in the south, a secessionist movement has fostered an increasingly lawless environment where Al Qaeda appears to be flourishing.
Although Al Qaeda has not claimed credit for the packages that were bound for Chicago, this latest episode ''is a reminder that we have a serious problem brewing in Yemen, and the current counterterrorism measures have not been able to stop it,'' said Gregory Johnsen, an expert on Yemen at Princeton University.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two packages containing explosives shipped from Yemen set off an international alert on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ABDULLAH/REUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); SANAA, YEMEN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); YEMEN (99%); LEBANON (92%); GULF STATES (88%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



836 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew 2% In Uncertain Trend

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
The United States economy is a bit like a jetliner short on fuel these days, waiting for something to give it the oomph needed for takeoff.
The latest report offers not much by way of immediate relief, as the Commerce Department estimated on Friday that the nation's economy grew at an annual rate of 2 percent in the third quarter. That growth rate, matching the forecast, is the barest tick up from the second quarter.
The weak report comes at a parlous time for President Obama and the Democrats, who are only days away from crucial midterm elections that are widely expected to turn out well for Republican challengers. High unemployment and soaring foreclosure numbers in the Midwest and West already made this a particularly difficult election for Democrats.
The nation's tens of millions of unemployed -- many now jobless for close to two years -- present a political and social challenge. Two percent growth, almost all economists agree, cannot produce nearly the demand needed to reduce the nation's 9.6 percent unemployment rate. 
The trade gap remained wide in the latest quarter, as imports again surged and outpaced exports, and that too could portend ill for job creation.
''It's the expected G.D.P. number, which is mostly bad news for the economy,'' Josh Bivens, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute, said of the gross domestic product. ''The growth rate is just nowhere near enough to put downward pressure on unemployment.''
In the fourth quarter of last year, the picture was far brighter, when growth rose 5 percent as the country emerged from recession. But conditions have weakened considerably.
Demand is crucial to re-igniting the economy, and demand remained flaccid in the third quarter, although there were hints of increased consumer spending. Income growth, adjusted for inflation and taxes, slowed, rising at an annualized rate of 0.5 percent in the third quarter after increasing at a 4.4 percent rate in the second. And at the other end, prices excluding food and energy increased at a rate of 0.6 percent compared with 0.8 percent in the second quarter.
In recent weeks, the economy has presented two faces, which is reflected in the latest G.D.P. numbers. There have been fledgling signs of growth: home sales and chain store sales are up a bit; a swelling equities market has raised consumer confidence a few notches; and jobless claims fell noticeably last week, albeit they are still quite high.
At the same time, the steroidal effect of the federal stimulus spending is fading (although more than a trace of that spending is in the growth in large highway and bridge projects found in this quarter's output numbers). City and state governments have shed tens of thousands of employees, and states face a sea of red ink as they look at next year's budgets.
''Two percent growth is not great, but it beats zero,'' said Steve Blitz, chief economist with ITG investment research. ''But the picture of the economy remains troubling. There is certainly no sign that a normal cyclical upturn is taking hold. The consumer is still underemployed and overindebted, so the normal push won't be there.''
Economic bulls are more difficult to locate now than in the spring, when the economy appeared to gain traction. But Bernard Baumohl, chief economist for the Economic Outlook Group, has lost none of his elan, saying that he spots signs of strength.
''The main message from this report is that the economic recovery is gathering fresh momentum from the sector that matters most to this recovery: consumer spending,'' he said in an e-mail. ''Slowly but surely, worries over job security and future income growth have subsided and households appear to be more at ease about shopping.''
Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly 70 percent of economic activity, remains the great unknown. Americans have shed some debt, which is good, but in an unsightly fashion, which is not so good. They have defaulted on credit card debt or have lost their homes to foreclosure in record numbers. Their spending rose this quarter and personal savings was estimated at 5.5 percent of income, compared with 5.9 percent in the second quarter.
But price and income growth remains too weak to banish entirely the fear that deflation might yet take hold.
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco touched on this prospect two weeks ago in a gloomy forecast, noting that no sector of the private economy stands ready to drive a robust recovery. ''The economic recovery is proceeding at a very slow pace and has lost momentum since the spring,'' said Mary C. Daly, vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. ''Japan's experience beginning in the early 1990s underscores the risk of getting into a long period of sustained disinflation.''
The midterm elections on Tuesday further complicate the economic picture. After the votes are counted, and certainty edges aside uncertainty, American business may start spending a bit more and banks may start lending to small businesses. But few economists are willing to turn that wish into a forecast, not the least because political deadlock looms as a possibility.
David Rosenberg, economist for the Canadian investment firm Gluskin Sheff and Associates, does not put a lot of faith in consumers pulling the economy out of its ditch. ''Barring divine intervention, it's not clear how the economy keeps expanding in the coming year,'' he said. ''You'll have federal spending declining and more and more folks falling out of emergency unemployment benefits.''
The eyes of some economists and political leaders have turned to overseas economies, in hopes that sturdier boats might come to America's aid. The Chinese economy has cooled a touch, but its engine remains impressive. And the European economies have shown signs of stabilizing of late, with Germany as a potential driver of growth (its unemployment recently reached an 18-year low). All of this could bode well for America's export sector.
But the facts in Friday's report offered little immediate help. Imports in the third quarter once again grew faster than exports, leaving a significant trade gap. Imports grew at an annual rate of 17.4 percent, compared with a 5.0 percent gain for exports.
Government spending began to slow, as the effects of the stimulus spending wear off. That was reflected in the unemployment numbers for September. Companies added 64,000 jobs last month, but over all, the economy lost 95,000 nonfarm jobs, the result of a 159,000 decline in government jobs. Local governments were particularly hard hit.
''The problematic factor is that consumers remain fundamentally insolvent or worried about becoming so, and too many of the major banks are zombies uninterested in commercial or industrial lending,'' said James K. Galbraith, an economics professor at the University of Texas.
Still, each quarter that the economy does not lapse back into recession adds incrementally to consumer and business confidence, and perhaps eventually to growth. The great immediate test, economists say, is the fourth quarter. The hope is that small signs of market strength in recent weeks may coalesce into something that looks more like an actual recovery, and that by next spring unemployment may stabilize and the gloom may lift.
''As with money, there is a power of compounding the economy,'' Mr. Blitz said. ''The longer you go with 2 percent growth, you begin to push up against constraints, and the more the fear of unemployment ebbs, the more chance there is that people will begin to feel confident. It's a very slow burn.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers on Friday near Macy's flagship store in Herald Square in Manhattan. Consumer demand is closely watched. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); FORECLOSURE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); RETAILERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



837 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Profits but Worry at Sony and Samsung

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Samsung Electronics and Sony reported significant increases in earnings Friday, but both technology giants cited a weak U.S. dollar as a headwind against future sales.
Samsung Electronics, the South Korean maker of semiconductors, phones and flat-screen TVs, posted net income of 4.46 trillion won, or $3.96 billion, in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, up 17 percent from the level of a year earlier. Revenue rose 12 percent to a record 40.23 trillion won.
Sony, the largest Japanese exporter of electronics, swung to a net profit of <5>31 billion, or $384 million, from a loss of <5>26 billion a year earlier. Sales rose to <5>1.73 trillion, up from <5>1.66 trillion. The earnings were better than many analysts had forecast. 
Sony raised its net profit forecast for the financial year ending March 31, 2011, to <5>70 billion from the <5>60 billion it had predicted in July. But the company also trimmed its sales forecast for the year by 3 percent to reflect a weaker U.S. dollar. A weaker dollar makes the company's products less competitive in overseas markets and reduces the value of revenue when it is converted back into yen.
Despite overall strength, Samsung and Sony said they faced some difficulties.
Samsung, which performed solidly despite economic weakness in the United States and Europe in the third quarter, said it hoped that year-end demand for TVs and mobile phones would continue to support sales. The company said in a statement, however, that ''oversupply in the memory semiconductor market will lead to reduced pricing, while prices for LCD panel will continue to decline.''
''The recent appreciation of the Korean won is also expected to put downward pressure on fourth-quarter earnings,'' Samsung said.
The won rose 4.7 percent against the dollar during the three months through the end of September.
''We expect the overall fourth-quarter business conditions to be difficult,'' Robert Yi, vice president and head of the Samsung Electronics investor relations team, said during a conference call.
Sony, while raising its full-year profit forecast, cut its forecast for sales to <5>7.4 trillion from <5>7.6 trillion. The company said expectations for a weaker dollar than previously assumed were behind the shift.
During the three months through September, the yen rose 7 percent against the dollar. In recent weeks, the Japanese currency has advanced to 15-year highs against the dollar: On Friday the dollar bought about <5>80.6, compared with <5>93 at the start of this year. Sony's forecasts are based on an average dollar level of approximately <5>83 through the end of March 2011.
The slide in the dollar against a broad basket of currencies has become a hot topic among political and corporate leaders. The United States and some West European countries have complained that countries like Japan and China, and to some extent South Korea, are purposely preventing their currencies from appreciating.
Meanwhile, a number of other countries are griping that U.S. monetary policy is a tool the United States is using to keep the dollar weak and give the nation's exports a lift. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to announce a purchase of assets, a move that effectively adds liquidity to the financial system and loosens monetary policy.
Sony said that it was cautious about the outlook for its TV business, as a result of the weak dollar and because of the weak U.S. economy -- an important market for Sony.
The TV industry ''is heading towards harsh competition in terms of marketing and prices,'' Sony's chief financial officer, Masaru Kato, said at a briefing in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg News. ''It's looking difficult to bring the TV operations profitable this fiscal year.''
By contrast, Sony's personal computer and game business -- including the PlayStation 3 game console -- ''contributed significantly'' to overall results, Sony said.
Meanwhile, Panasonic, the Japanese electronics and appliance maker, posted a big increase in profit, to <5>31 billion in the quarter from <5>6.1 billion a year ago. Revenue jumped 27 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sony televisions at an electronics store south of Tokyo. Sony's reliance on exports makes the dollar a factor in future results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (93%); SONY CORP (93%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (92%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); SMSN (LSE) (92%); 005930 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (93%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



838 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Early Retirements May Strain the Social Safety Nets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
IF early retirement brings happiness, France should be the happiest place in the world.
Protests continued this week in France as the Parliament approved a bill that would raise the minimum age for reduced French retirement benefits to 62 from 60. The age to collect full benefits will rise to 67 from 65. 
That is not very different from the rules in effect in many countries. In the United States, workers must be 62 to collect reduced Social Security benefits, with the age for full benefits scheduled to rise from 66 now to 67 for younger workers.
But where France stands out is in how many people do retire when they are still relatively young.
Figures compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development show that in 2009 only one Frenchman in five, ages 60 to 64, was in the work force, either holding down a job or looking for one. In the United States, by contrast, 61 percent of men in that age group were working, triple the French rate.
In Japan, on the other hand, three-quarters of such men were in the labor force.
Generous social benefit systems have long made it possible for residents of most Western European countries to stop working relatively early, but France stands out even among its peers. In Germany, just over half the 60- to 64-year-old men are in the labor force. Even in Italy, another country with a strong sense that people should work to live, rather than live to work, 30 percent of men in that age group are still in the labor force.
The accompanying charts show the work force participation levels by age group for six countries. The two Asian countries listed, Japan and South Korea, stand out in longevity of employment. Nearly a quarter of South Korean men over 75 are still in the labor force, as are 14 percent of Japanese men. In the United States, a 10th of such men are working or seeking work, compared with half of 1 percent in France.
Put another way, a Korean man over 75 is more likely to be working than a Frenchman in his early 60s.
Whether a low percentage of working older people is good or bad depends on perspective and on facts not evident in cold statistics, like whether people stay in the labor force because they love their jobs or because they cannot get by without the additional income.
Many European governments have begun to worry that they are too far in debt now, a problem that will only intensify as a greater percentage of their population is over 65 and collecting benefits rather than paying into retirement systems.
In 2007, the O.E.C.D. reports, about 17 percent of the French were over 65, a relatively low figure for Western Europe. The figures for Italy and Germany were 20 percent, while the relatively young United States had just 13 percent of people over 65.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Labor Force Participation Rate, 2009: Percentage of people in each age category who are either working or seeking employment (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEN (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



839 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Coal Industry Spending to Sway Next Congress

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting from Houston.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The coal industry, facing a host of new health and safety regulations, is spending millions of dollars in lobbying and campaign donations this year to influence the makeup of the next Congress in hopes of derailing what one industry official called an Obama administration ''regulatory jihad.''
Political spending by the coal industry is on track to exceed that of the 2008 cycle, when the presidency was at stake and Congress appeared determined to move forward with a national energy policy designed to address climate change by cutting back on the use of coal and petroleum. 
Over the last two years, the coal industry, along with its allies in oil and gas, electric utilities, manufacturing and agriculture, effectively killed any prospects for climate change legislation in the near future.
But after two major coal industry accidents, a huge spill of toxic ash in 2008 and a West Virginia mine disaster in April that killed 29 workers, the industry is bracing for new federal action that it fears will curtail operations and drive up costs.
Industry officials believe they face a hostile administration that could seriously harm their business with a range of new federal regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, mountaintop removal mining, air pollution, coal ash disposal and mine safety.
''It certainly is critical,'' Michael J. Quillen, chairman of the board of Alpha Natural Resources, a major national coal producer, said of Tuesday's election. ''We've got Congress in play. We need a Congress that can balance environmental issues with jobs and national security. We can't work in an environment where Congress and the administration are antibusiness.''
The industry already enjoys some bipartisan support for killing or moderating these new rules but it is looking to broaden its margins in the House and Senate to try to ensure more favorable treatment by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Mine Safety and Health Administration and other federal regulatory bodies.
Coal industry spending on campaigns and lobbying is substantial and growing, although it is dwarfed by the far better-financed oil and gas, electric utility, financial services and health care lobbies.
Among the largest recipients of coal money are Republican and Democratic members who have sponsored or voted for measures to block new E.P.A. regulations on climate cahnge pollution from the burning of coal and oil and who are most likely to support efforts to block other new rules.
These members include Representatives Roy Blunt of Missouri and Joe L. Barton of Texas, both Republicans, and Nick J. Rahall II of West Virginia and Rick Boucher of Virginia, both Democrats. Each had received more than $25,000 in contributions as of early October, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that tracks campaign spending.
Two Senate candidates, Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, and Gov. Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, have also received sizable industry donations.
The political action committee of Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, who is in line to become speaker if Republicans capture the House, has received more than $300,000 from mining interests, most of it from coal companies. The industry is counting on Mr. Boehner to reverse the current Democratic leadership's refusal to allow a vote on the measure blocking E.P.A. carbon regulation.
As of the beginning of October, coal mining companies had collectively contributed nearly $3 million to federal candidates, with three-quarters of the money going to Republicans, according to the campaign finance group. The companies spent about $3.5 million to influence the 2008 elections and it appeared likely that they would surpass that figure this year.
In addition, the industry has spent more than $24 million on lobbying since the beginning of 2009, nearly as much as it spent in 2007-8. Coal companies, in partnership with utilities and manufacturers under the banner of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, have spent more than $15 million on advertisements extolling the virtues of coal and seeking support for federal money for research into cleaner methods of burning it.
The industry's main Washington lobby, the National Mining Association, is likewise on pace to set records for political spending this year. It sees the stakes as enormous and is hoping that the Republican leadership will rein in federal regulators through pre-emptive legislation or funding cuts.
''With the prospect of legislative gridlock looking more and more likely,'' said Luke Popovich, chief spokesman for the mining association, ''our concerns turn to the regulatory side, and there we have very grave concerns that some of the regulatory agencies, particularly the E.P.A., appear indifferent to our mining communities and the worst recession since the 1930s.''
Mr. Popovich said he hoped that the new Congress would be more aggressive in holding regulators to account for the cost of new rules and would send signals to the administration to slow down new regulations on carbon dioxide emissions and speed up the granting of new mine permits.
''We're very concerned about the cost of a range of regulations that have been proposed or are pending, and very concerned about what we view to be the very suspect science that E.P.A. says is behind the regulatory jihad against us,'' he said.
The E.P.A. says it is not at war with coal mining companies or coal-burning utilities but is carrying out its legal mandate to protect public health and the environment.
''E.P.A. does not have a problem with coal, or any other industry,'' said Brendan Gilfillan, a senior agency spokesman. ''E.P.A. is committed to doing its job, which is to minimize the pollution that might come from these industries.
''E.P.A.'s actions are firmly grounded in both the best available science and the law -- in fact, in many cases E.P.A. is operating under legal deadlines after rules from the previous administration were thrown out by the courts.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Coal Shovel: The full tally is not in, but political spending by the coal industry this year is on track to exceed what was spent in the 2008 cycle. (Source: Center for Responsive Politics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (93%); LOBBYING (90%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%)

COMPANY: ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

TICKER: ANR (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (54%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (54%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J QUILLEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); RICK BOUCHER (57%); ROY BLUNT (57%); NICK J RAHALL II (57%); ROB PORTMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



840 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 361 words

PERSON: Jonathan Motzfeldt 

HEADLINE: J. Motzfeldt, 72, Ex-Premier; Hailed as a Pillar of Greenland

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN (AP) -- Jonathan Motzfeldt, the former prime minister of Greenland who spearheaded a drive for more self-rule and opposed American bases there, a semiautonomous Danish territory, died Thursday in Nuuk, Greenland. He was 72. 
The cause was a brain hemorrhage, the local government said.
Greenlanders knew Mr. Motzfeldt as ''Junnuk,'' a pipe-smoking Lutheran priest-turned-politician, who led the mostly Inuit population on a path toward autonomy. As a member of the social democratic Siumut Party, he became Greenland's first government leader after home rule was introduced in 1979.
''Junnuk was for many years the pillar and beacon of the Greenlandic people, our national focal point,'' Greenland's prime minister, Kuupik Kleist, said Friday.
Mr. Motzfeldt led Greenland's government from 1979 to 1991, when he was forced to leave politics because of a drinking problem. He served again from 1997 to 2002. That year, he lost an internal party struggle to a fellow Siumut, Hans Enoksen, who replaced him as prime minister. Mr. Motzfeldt then became speaker of Greenland's Parliament, but he resigned in 2008 amid allegations that he had groped a female civil servant. He denied wrongdoing and was never charged.
Mr. Motzfeldt started his battle for autonomy in the mid-1950s with a group of young Inuit activists. Greenland, an Arctic island, was then a Danish province governed from Copenhagen.
As prime minister, he opposed a 1951 defense agreement between the United States and Denmark allowing four American Air Force bases on Greenland.
Most Greenlanders opposed the deal because they never profited economically from the bases, which were built rent free. All except the base in Thule, in northern Greenland, have since been shut down.
Opposition grew after the Danish government admitted in a 1996 report that the United States had stored nuclear weapons in Greenland during the cold war, even though Denmark had banned nuclear weapons from its soil in 1957.
Mr. Motzfeldt demanded that the Danish government renegotiate the defense treaty with the United States; it never did.
Mr. Motzfeldt married Kristjana Gudrun Gudmundsdottir in 1992. They had no children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Motzfeldt in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FINN FRANDSEN/POLFOTO, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SMOKING (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); AIR FORCES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (93%) GREENLAND (96%); DENMARK (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



841 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: After Rare Earth Embargo, a New Calculus for Toxic Work

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
BAOTOU, China -- When Japanese mineral traders learned in late September that China was blocking shipments of a vital commodity, the word came not from a government announcement but from dock workers in Shanghai.
And on Thursday, the traders began hearing that the unannounced embargo of so-called rare earth minerals was ending -- again, not from any Chinese government communique, but though back-channel word from their distributors.
Throughout the five weeks of the embargo, even when China expanded the rare earth shipping halt to include the United States and Europe, Beijing denied there was a ban.
Whatever it was called, a shipping suspension that started amid China's diplomatic dispute with Japan over a wayward fishing trawler escalated into a broader international trade issue. 
The episode alarmed companies around the world that depend on rare earths, minerals that help make a wide range of high-tech products, including smartphones and smart bombs. China currently controls almost all of the world's supply of rare earths, for which demand is soaring.
To many outsiders, the undeclared embargo looked like a pure power play -- a sign China would wield its growing economic might and apply its chokehold on an important industrial resource with little regard for the conventions of international trade. The export quotas China continues to impose on rare earths, even when it does let ships leave the docks, are restricting global supplies and causing world market prices to soar far beyond what Chinese companies pay.
From the Chinese perspective, though, the issue looks very different.
China feels entitled to call the shots because of a brutally simple environmental reckoning: It currently controls most of the globe's rare earths supply not just because of geologic good fortune, although there is some of that, but because the country has been willing to do dirty, toxic and often radioactive work that the rest of the world has long shunned.
Despite producing 95 percent of the world's rare earths, China has only 37 percent of the world's proven reserves. Sizable deposits are known to exist in the United States, Canada, Australia, India and Brazil, among other places.
Many of those countries, responding to the rising demand for rare earths and alarmed by the recent embargo, are now scrambling to develop new mines or renovate ones long considered not to be worth the effort. That includes an abandoned mine in California that the American company Molycorp is trying to refurbish.
But experts say that any meaningful new production from outside China is at least five years away, and that it will come with its own environmental cost calculus.
''China's rare earth output cannot be raised fast enough to meet the entire world's needs, as there are environmental factors to be taken into consideration with an increase in rare earth production,'' said Zhang Peichen, the deputy director of the government-backed Baotou Research Institute of Rare Earths, the main research group for the Chinese industry.
Across China, rare earth mines have scarred valleys by stripping topsoil and pumping thousands of gallons of acid into streambeds. The environmental costs are palpable here in Baotou, a smoggy mining and steel city in China's Inner Mongolia, where the air this week had an acrid, faintly metallic taste.
Half of the global supply of rare earths comes from a single iron ore mine in the hills north of Baotou. After the iron is removed, the ore is processed at weather-beaten refineries in Baotou's western outskirts to extract the rare earths minerals.
The refineries and the iron ore processing mill pump their waste into an artificial lake here. The reservoir, four square miles and surrounded by an earthen embankment four stories high, holds a dark gray, slightly radioactive sludge laced with toxic chemical compounds.
The deadly lake is not far from the Yellow River watershed that supplies drinking water to much of northern China. The reservoir covers an area 100 times the size of the alumina factory waste pond that collapsed this month in Hungary, inundating villages there and killing at least nine people.
Even before the Hungary disaster, Baotou authorities had begun a program to reinforce the levee here. Huge bulldozers are adding a thick surface layer of crushed stone to the embankments to protect them from the region's harsh weather.
But the bottom of the reservoir was not properly lined when it was built decades ago, according to a rare earth engineer who insisted on anonymity because of the Chinese government's sensitivity about the problem. The sludge, he said, has caused a slowly spreading stain of faint but detectable radioactivity in the groundwater that is spreading at a rate of 300 yards a year toward the Yellow River, seven miles to the south.
Much of the radioactivity associated with rare earths comes from the element thorium, which is not a rare earth but is typically found in the same ore. With the exception of unusual clay formations in southern China that contain medium and heavy rare earths with virtually no thorium, every other known commercial-grade rare earth deposit in the world is laced with thorium.
In Australia, engineers and lawyers have been working for three decades to find a safe, legal way to produce rare earths from a very rich deposit in the center of the country at Mount Weld. The mine's current owner, Lynas Corporation, hopes to begin small-scale production there late next year, although technical challenges remain.
The only American rare earths mine, the Molycorp complex at Mountain Pass, Calif., was at one time the world's leading producer. That was before it leaked faintly radioactive fluid into the nearby desert in the late 1990s, causing a costly cleanup that contributed to the mine's closing in 2002. By then, very low Chinese prices had made the mine less economically viable.
Now Molycorp, which raised money in a public stock offering this past summer, is hoping to re-open the mine with higher safety and environmental standards. And it is betting that new technologies can drive its operating costs lower than the level of Chinese mines. Large-scale production, though, may still be several years away.
The mines of southern China are essentially free of thorium and have rare earths that are easily separated from the clay by dumping the ore in acid. But this relatively easy process, and soaring prices on the world market, has led to the development of many illegal mines, which sell to organized crime syndicates that pay for rare earth concentrate with sacks of cash.
Beijing officials have sent out police squads since May to shut down the outlaw mines, arrest their operators and destroy their equipment with blowtorches, rare earth industry officials said.
''The damage that has been done in south China is considerable,'' said Judith Chegwidden, a managing director specializing in rare earths at the Roskill Consulting Group in London.
To point out China's environmental and supply concerns is not to overlook the economic benefits the nation accrues by restricting exports. The global shortage gives foreign companies a reason to move even more of their rare earth-dependent operations to China, to produce key components for a wide range of products.
A Chinese official has acknowledged as much. ''To use moderation in the control of the production of rare earth resources and reduce exports to an acceptable level is to attract more Chinese and foreign investors into the region,'' Zhao Shuanglian, the vice chairman of Inner Mongolia, said last year, according to China's official Xinhua news agency.
Meanwhile, China's own fast-growing manufacturing industries now consume more rare earths than the rest of the world combined. And Beijing has done nothing to curb that domestic demand.
That apparent double standard could prove important if, as some trade experts have predicted, the United States, Europe and Japan bring a World Trade Organization case accusing China of unfairly restricting exports through a system of quotas and duties.
Alan Wolff, a former American trade official who now heads the international trade practice at the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf in Washington, said China might face a skeptical audience at the W.T.O.
''A panel would sympathize with a genuine environmental objective,'' Mr. Wolff said. ''But I do not think it would sympathize with cutting off supply disproportionately to foreign users in the name of saving the environment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This lake outside of Baotou, China, contains sludge laced with toxic chemical compounds from rare earth processing (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOEYE, VIA GOOGLE EARTH) (B1)
At the waste pond near Baotou, China, toxic liquid dries out and is then leveled off by trucks. Half of the global supply of rare earths comes from the hills north of the town, in Inner Mongolia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Chinese Dominance In Rare Earth Mining: China has a near monopoly on this group of 17 elements, some of which are used to make efficient light bulbs, electric car motors and wind turbines. (Source: U.S. Geological Survey)
 MAP (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MINERAL MARKETS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); MISC METAL MINING (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



842 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: What It Takes To Buy a House In Foreclosure

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- As in any economic downturn, the wave of home foreclosures has attracted voracious opportunists -- investors among them who are buying, fixing and then renting the places out.
In their wake are aspiring owner-occupants. How hard could it be, they ask, to pick up one of these houses on the cheap and make it livable?
For an answer, consider Jennifer Kuzara, 32, a grants manager for a nonprofit organization here. From early 2009 to early this year, she spent about 1,000 hours on her foreclosure project. The gang of helpers she assembled included two real estate agents, a banker, an architect, a contractor and her parents.
To stand a chance of making the project work in the neighborhoods where she was willing to live, she needed $100,000 in cash. Ultimately, Ms. Kuzara and her parents were exposed to a fair bit of risk, all in the name of a bungalow in a middle-class neighborhood. 
And while the specifics are particular to Ms. Kuzara, plenty of people in foreclosure-ridden markets in Florida, Arizona, Nevada and elsewhere are in for a house hunt that is going to look a lot like hers. The headlines may be raising all sorts of questions about whether the foreclosures were legitimate. But there will always be people who want to buy when things are really cheap and are willing to press ahead when the quest seems most challenging.
So this is the story of what it will take for their search to have a happy ending.
It began in 2006, when Ms. Kuzara had nearly six figures in student loan debt and the housing market was at its most heated. She was virtually certain that she would never be able to afford a home. ''I remember thinking that it might have been the end of my American dream,'' Ms. Kuzara said.
Two years later, after she had finished her Ph.D. course work in anthropology at Emory University, and begun full-time work in the nonprofit field, the housing market began to turn. Not long after, a friend was considering buying a foreclosed home as an investment property and encouraged Ms. Kuzara to look at the listings.
Through another friend, Ms. Kuzara found Lisa Iakovides and her business partner, Michael Redwine, real estate agents at a company called Atlanta Intown. They established some price parameters and some items that would be deal breakers, like mold and crooked rooflines.
Then they shopped for neighborhoods. One, East Atlanta, made the short list, even though Ms. Kuzara hit the floor of Mr. Redwine's car one day when she heard gunshots on the way back from visiting a home there. She and Ms. Iakovides hadn't even started up the walkway of a house in another neighborhood, Peoplestown, when a neighbor loudly made her feelings known about white people moving in.
Other homes told stories in subtler ways. ''Squatters had taken them all over,'' Ms. Kuzara said. ''Some moved in furniture and their families. But there was one where I never would have known until I opened up a closet and saw a little stack of sleeping bags and blankets. And on the top ledge there was a knife, a fork and a spoon.''
Ms. Kuzara vowed to leave cookies and a nice note for whomever was living there if she bought that home, but she didn't get it or many others. By the time she entered the fray, investors were already swarming. She bid on at least 10 homes over six months and lost them all.
The house she finally bought had been divided in half and turned into apartments, which might have been why she did not have to fight so hard for it.
The 1,100-square-foot bungalow sits high on a small piece of property in the Edgewood neighborhood. It is one of those places where you can walk a few blocks to the left and find two stores with a fine malt liquor selection, then stroll 10 minutes to the right to Bed Bath & Beyond for high thread-count sheets to sleep off the hangover. Ms. Kuzara's block has a halfway house for former substance abusers next door and a beautifully renovated home across the street with an alarm service sign planted prominently out front.
Ms. Iakovides managed to get a preliminary $39,000 offer accepted by the bank on the home in early August 2009, and she began trying to set a closing date. Ms. Kuzara drove by the home each day, planning the renovation.
But one day she found the front door wide open and called her real estate agents in a panic, worried that vandals were casing the place or that squatters would take up residence. Without really asking the bank's permission, the agents called a contractor to padlock the door. ''Who would we have asked?'' Mr. Redwine said, incredulously, as if the bank that still owned the house was actually going to return his calls.
Ms. Kuzara's next step was to get together the money to pay for the place and the $60,000 or so in repair work. After trying early on in her hunt to cobble together various combinations of tax credits, down payment assistance programs and government loans, it became clear that most banks preferred all-cash offers for their foreclosed homes.
But Ms. Kuzara had no cash. Her parents, Mark and Jennie, had some savings but not nearly enough. So her parents borrowed $25,000 at about 8 percent interest against a life insurance policy and $50,000 more at a lower rate from his 401(k) and bought the $39,000 home themselves. They used the remaining money for the renovation, planning all along to sell it to Ms. Kuzara as soon as the repairs were done.
For that to work, however, Ms. Kuzara would need to qualify for a mortgage to buy it from her parents. She had no money for a down payment, though. To qualify for the Federal Housing Administration loan that she needed, the home, postrenovation, would have to be appraised at a high enough amount that her parents could give her some of the newly created equity for a down payment while still getting all their money back.
And therein lay the risk. Because Ms. Kuzara bought one of the worst homes on a nice block, her agents were convinced that the renovation could yield an appraisal at the value that the bank required.
It helped that they had ushered in a contractor they had worked with before, whom they could count on to stay within the strict budget. Under his supervision, the renovations were finished in less than two months.
Then came the deciding moment: the appraisals. One came in at $130,000, while the other was for $145,000. As a result, the bank allowed Ms. Kuzara to borrow $100,000 to buy the home from her parents and thus make them whole. Then she used some of the remaining, newly created equity for the required down payment.
Ms. Kuzara moved in a year ago this weekend, and today the cozy house has three bedrooms, two baths, a front porch for dinner parties and a backyard for her two dogs. She's furnished the place with chairs from consignment stores and thrift shops and has assembled a nice collection of vintage cookware and dishes.
She pays $828 a month on her 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, including taxes and insurance, and she has a roommate who chips in $500 month.
Including the weeks when she painted every inch of the interior, Ms. Kuzara spent about 1,000 hours on her foreclosure project -- poring over listings, researching every last one in county databases, visiting houses and making her eventual home habitable.
So anyone who wants to do what she did needs to be ready to put in that much time. You may need a source of funds or willing co-conspirators like Ms. Kuzara's parents. And you will need a team of people who know the rules of the foreclosure game cold.
The odds of success are certainly long. But for those with the patience to pull it off, it sure seems a whole lot of fun to play this game and win.
''It turned out to be a sweet little house,'' said Mark Kuzara, Jennifer's father. ''And I think somewhere down the road, she'll sell that house and come out pretty nicely on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Kuzara's parents bought a foreclosed house to sell to her. (B1)
 Jennifer Kuzara says the process of buying and renovating a foreclosed house became a full-time job. It involved financial gymnastics and quite a bit of luck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



843 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Our Aging Water Systems

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Corrosion of America'' (column, Oct. 26), about the deterioration of the country's water systems:
Bob Herbert's analogy of fixing a leak before it gets worse and more expensive is right on target. In New York City, we are doing just that -- and on a large scale.
For instance, the city has two water tunnels that are both more than 70 years old. Construction on a third tunnel began in 1970, but city funding ebbed and flowed with the economic and political times. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has invested more money in the tunnel than the previous five mayors combined -- and it is now nearing completion. 
Despite a strained budget, New York continues making these investments essentially on its own. For example, between 2002 and 2009, only $41 million of the $6.3 billion that the city invested in protecting harbor water quality came from federal grants -- a tiny 0.65 percent.
That trend has to be reversed if we are serious about fixing the problem. Protecting our water supplies and cleaning our environment are national priorities, so it is critical that the federal government restore its commitment as a funding partner.
Cas Holloway Commissioner New York City Department of Environmental Protection New York, Oct. 27, 2010
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's column about aging water infrastructure correctly points out that many of our nation's water pipes need repair or replacement and that we too often take for granted our buried water infrastructure.
While the problem is well documented, it's time to move toward viable solutions. The American Water Works Association conducted a study of water infrastructure finance solutions and strongly recommends the creation of a federal water infrastructure bank.
The bank would provide low-cost loans to communities with critical water infrastructure needs. These loans would dramatically reduce the cost of repairs for cities and consumers, encourage immediate action on water projects and even spur job creation.
And it would do all this without adding to the federal deficit. A federal water infrastructure bank strikes just the right balance between federal assistance and local responsibility.
David LaFrance Executive Director American Water Works Association Denver, Oct. 27, 2010
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert hits the nail on the head when he argues that our society's failure to invest in its water infrastructure will soon result in an enormous health, safety and energy bill coming due.
For example, it has been estimated that the City of Chicago loses more than half of its water between the treatment plant and the faucet, with all the costs associated with such waste. The problem is now so great that we cannot afford to fix it with the current century-old methods of repairing and replacing our water systems.
We need the same technology breakthroughs that have enabled other sectors to make quantum leaps in efficiency, productivity and reliability for lower costs. For too long the water sector has lacked innovation in re-piping, coatings, energy efficiency and water filtration, among other challenges.
We are working to change that, because without such innovation, our nation's water problem is even worse than Mr. Herbert thinks.
F. Mark Modzelewski Daniel Ritter Shelton, Conn., Oct. 27, 2010
The writers are, respectively, the executive director of and the policy counsel to Water Innovations Alliance, a trade association.
To the Editor:
Not only do we need to invest more in our nation's outdated infrastructure, but we also need to invest smarter. Simply rebuilding the dams, levees and pipes of the 19th century won't be enough to keep up with the demands that a growing population and climate change are placing on our water systems.
Instead, we need to invest in 21st-century green infrastructure solutions, like wetland restoration and green roofs, that replicate natural functions and are cheaper, more flexible and more resilient than traditional approaches.
Communities nationwide are realizing that these innovative green infrastructure solutions come with multiple benefits. On Staten Island, the New York City Department of Environmental Protection integrated restored wetlands into its stormwater management program. The project has improved water quality, reduced flood damage, decreased threats to public health and revitalized wildlife habitat.
New York City's new Green Infrastructure Plan is designed to save $2.4 billion over 20 years as part of a sustainable strategy for clean water.
The Green Infrastructure for Clean Water Act, introduced in the House and the Senate, would help ensure that communities nationwide can implement projects like this. Congress should act swiftly to pass the bill.
Rebecca Wodder President, American Rivers Washington, Oct. 28, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FEMKE DE JONG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



844 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: For Nevadans, It's Hold Nose And Cast Vote

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
HENDERSON, Nev. -- The knock on the front door elicited the annoyed yapping of an unseen dog, followed by the appearance of a gray-haired man busily eating chips from a bag. His callers were two union workers, canvassing the neighborhood on behalf of Democrats, especially Senator Harry Reid.
The man said that he knew Mr. Reid, and that Mr. Reid was an idiot. So was his Republican opponent, Sharron Angle. In fact, said the man, a retired steelworker named Mario Mari, he might very well choose a third option here in Nevada: the phantom candidate known as None of the Above.
''This country is going down,'' Mr. Mari said, before closing the door to a bleak Nevada landscape, where jobs are few and foreclosures many. 
This is the up-for-grabs Third Congressional District, the most populous in Nevada and the most contested in this state's contentious Senate race, sprawling across the dry terrain to form a kind of martini glass around the olive of downtown Las Vegas. It is here, in this packed suburban stretch of terra cotta roofs and crushed-rock yards adorned with Halloween skulls and campaign signs, that the battle for the country's direction is being waged.
The two candidates could not be more ideologically different. But in these last frantic days of an extremely tight and unpleasant campaign, one with implications for the balance of power in Washington, they are united by the same problem: the voters of Nevada do not particularly like either of them.
''More people in Nevada dislike these candidates than like them,'' said Ryan Erwin, a Republican consultant in Las Vegas. As a result, he added, ''It's going to be about which side is going to persuade voters that the other candidate is worse.''
On one side, the incumbent of two dozen years: Mr. Reid, 70, the Senate majority leader, a close ally of President Obama and, behind the scenes, a flinty, old-school Nevadan. But if a microphone appears, he assumes the persona of a wan, Old West undertaker whose own pulse needs to be checked.
In addition to giving interviews and busily visiting key racial, ethnic and union groups, the senator is counting on a highly disciplined ground game -- put in place after Republicans swept into state offices in 2002 -- that does everything from sending out door-knocking union members to providing hotel maids and blackjack dealers free bus rides to early voting sites.
Finally, the Reid campaign's closing-argument commercials are casting Ms. Angle as a flaky, even dangerous extremist. The most recent commercial for the Reid campaign ends with: ''Sharron Angle? Pathological.''
On the other side, the challenger from out of nowhere: Ms. Angle, 61, this season's anti-Obama Tea Party standard-bearer. A former schoolteacher, state legislator and competitive weight lifter, she has choice words for Washington and curious words for the rest of the country, as when she suggested that Islamic religious law had taken hold in two American communities. But if a microphone appears, she begins to play hide-and-seek: she hides, reporters seek.
Ms. Angle has emerged as a candidate wary of some of her Republican colleagues, and the feeling is often mutual. Sometimes she listens to the professional Republican consultants who have descended on this race; sometimes she does not. While they want her to avoid the press, they do not want her to be seen running away from cameras -- which has become a common sight on Nevada television, one that some Republicans say is entirely of Ms. Angle's design.
Although Ms. Angle usually flees microphones, she speaks clearly through her campaign commercials, which question the source of Mr. Reid's wealth and portray him as a calcified Obama toady who all but invites thuggish undocumented immigrants to your family's Thanksgiving.
In their own ways, then, both candidates are asking the same plaintive question in this close race: What are you thinking, Nevada?
In one of the storefronts of a tired, partly vacant shopping center blessed by the bright lights of a central Las Vegas casino called Arizona Charlie's, a clutch of Republicans spent Tuesday night making telephone calls to registered Republicans. Words on a grease board underscored their mission's importance:
''Dirty Harry won by 428 votes in 1998. How many calls did YOU make today?''
Jesse Law, 28, a mortgage broker with Tea Party credentials, sat among a half-dozen other volunteers who, by the end of the day, were to have made more than 2,200 calls from this office alone. When not working at a Republican phone bank, he is leading groups of canvassers through the almost identical subdivisions carpeting the southern Nevada desert. His message is consistent:
Oust Reid.
This mantra binds the various bands of Nevada Republicans and Tea Party members, who normally find their oxygen in internal squabbling. It is a strange moment of unification, though, given how divisive a figure Ms. Angle has been.
According to a profile in The Las Vegas Review-Journal this spring, the deeply religious Ms. Angle underwent a political conversion after surviving a medical crisis -- a tumor blocking her spinal fluid -- three decades ago. A friend confided that she had seen Deborah, a heroine from the Old Testament, while dreaming about Ms. Angle, who interpreted this as a sign.
''Deborah was really the first woman politician,'' Ms. Angle told the newspaper.
Ms. Angle went on to become a pro-gun, anti-tax state legislator from northern Nevada who relished being the antiestablishment outsider. In 2008, for example, she unsuccessfully challenged a veteran Republican leader from Reno, State Senator William J. Raggio, in a mean primary. Then, in the Republican primary for the United States Senate in June, she came from far behind to beat several established candidates, including Sue Lowden, a former chairwoman in the state Republican Party.
The hurt feelings created by her audacity have not eased. Mr. Raggio, who is among several prominent state Republicans reluctantly supporting Mr. Reid, recently issued a statement that criticized Ms. Angle's unwillingness to work with others, even those in her own party, as well as ''her extreme positions'' on a range of issues.
Some Republicans fear losing such a powerful ally in Washington -- no matter that his name is Reid -- at a time when Nevada is in precarious economic shape. And Ms. Angle's relationship with Republicans in Washington is complicated. She eyes them warily, while they fret that their overt help might offend her Tea Party supporters.
Even so, Ms. Angle is not above accepting the help of the Republican establishment, whether by receiving significant financial support from, say, Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, or holding an event on Friday night with Senator John McCain of Arizona. She melds the inside with the outside, as when, during a recent appearance with Newt Gingrich, she told her supporters -- ''Nevada patriots,'' she called them -- that she wanted to cut any federal spending not provided for in the Constitution.
Still, it seems that no adviser can stop Ms. Angle from being herself, as when she suggested to a rural community that Islamic religious law had taken hold in Dearborn, Mich., and Frankford, Tex., which no longer exists. (''I think that's arguably the craziest thing that she has said, and the most dangerous,'' said Jon Ralston, who writes the state's most influential political column for The Las Vegas Sun.)
Her candor has caused advisers to suggest that she lie low in these last days, so low that reporters have relied on the Twitter messages of a Democrat dressed as a chicken to track Ms. Angle's whereabouts.
But Ms. Angle's outlandish comments and harsh commercials -- juxtaposing menacing, dark-skinned men with anxious white people -- have not affected her ability to raise and spend money. From July 1 to Oct. 13, her campaign spent $16.9 million, well more than the $11.2 million spent by the Reid campaign, and her advisers say their ground game is better than people might imagine.
''If you include the enthusiasm advantage that we have, we're feeling quite good,'' said Jordan Gehrke, Ms. Angle's deputy campaign manager.
In a union hall tucked among subdivisions and wisps of desert, some steelworkers, letter carriers and culinary workers filed in to get their Saturday morning coffee and marching orders before heading out to canvass for Democrats. Many of them passed a handwritten sign suggesting how to respond to ''Reid Distrust.'' It advised:
''Acknowledge: 'I hear you, but despite what the media says ... Harry brings it home for NV.''
Mike Reinecke, the state political director of Labor 2010, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s get-out-the-vote program, gave a pep talk and released them with: ''See your captains, grab your packets and let's hit the pavement.''
Union members have knocked on 200,000 doors and made 48,000 calls as part of a one-vote-at-a-time effort by Democrats to counter a general disgust with the establishment -- personified these days by Mr. Reid, who might otherwise be seen as a Horatio Alger character from Nevada: a poor, pugnacious kid from Searchlight who rose to become a power broker able to secure federal money for large, jobs-creating state projects.
Well aware that polls show Ms. Angle slightly ahead, Mr. Reid has been forced to shed his dour Washington persona and stump like a challenger. At a recent rally in Las Vegas's Chinatown, he posed for photographs for 45 minutes with any supporter who wanted one, then left to shake hands and share hugs at a barbecue with black supporters.
Still, Mr. Reid cannot deny being such a creature of distant Washington that he made the tone-deaf decision years ago to move into the Ritz-Carlton -- a name that, in these hard Nevadan times, smacks of exclusive luxury. And for all his kisses and embraces, he still has that undertaker's parched look; he still has that propensity for clumsy statements, as when he recently suggested that: ''But for me, we'd be in a worldwide depression.''
With all this in tow, Richard and Tracy Griffin, a married couple who, as letter carriers, know how to calm barking dogs, headed out into the key Third Congressional District, where the chocolate-brown Black Mountains loom in the distance, the deep cuts in their sides all that exist of luxury developments never completed.
In recent elections, the global-positioning systems used by the union door-knockers could not keep up with all the new roads. Now the district is the foreclosure capital of a state that is the foreclosure capital of the nation -- and Mr. Reid needs the votes of its anxious, angry electorate.
''In the beginning it was very tough,'' Ms. Griffin said as she went door to door, talking to laid-off workers, cranky retirees, homeowners nervous about the future. ''It seems to be changing now, as we get closer to the elections, and the realization of putting her in office is starting to hit people. We have rarely heard a pro-Angle, it's usually ---- ''
''Anti-Reid,'' said Mr. Griffin, finishing the thought.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sausage cart up for sale on the Las Vegas strip. Buildings are empty across Nevada, the foreclosure capital of the nation.
Supporters of Sharron Angle, the Republican Senate candidate in the Third Congressional District, at a campaign rally.
Senator Harry Reid embraced Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, during a get-out-the-vote event.
An image of Ms. Angle during a recent rally that she held with Newt Gingrich. She called her supporters ''Nevada patriots.''
Ms. Angle appeared last week with Newt Gingrich. American Solutions is the onetime House speaker's policy center.
 Obama T-shirts were sold when the president stumped recently for Mr. Reid, the incumbent of two dozen years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); HALLOWEEN (66%); CARD GAMES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); NEWT GINGRICH (71%); JOHN LEWIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



845 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: THE GREAT DEFLATION; U.S. Hears Echo Of Japan's Woes

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and STEVE LOHR; Martin Fackler reported from Tokyo, and Steve Lohr from New York.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- In the annals of economic policy blunders, the one in which Hiroshi Kato played a hand in early 1997 ranks among the biggest in recent Japanese history.
Mr. Kato led a government advisory committee that concluded that the economy, which was then finally starting to rebound from the collapse of its 1980s land and stock bubbles, was healthy enough to raise the national consumption tax to 5 percent from 3 percent.
Aimed at reducing deficits, the tax increase instead quickly snuffed out the fragile recovery, pushing Japan to the brink of a financial meltdown and thrusting the nation deeper into the economic morass from which it has yet to emerge even today.
''Our sins are large,'' Mr. Kato, now president of Kaetsu University in Tokyo, said ruefully. ''I hope the rest of the world can learn from this mistake.'' 
And indeed, the lessons of Japan's long stagnation are well known to American policy makers like the treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, who have studied Japan's policy missteps.
In 1999, Mr. Bernanke, then an academic, tartly criticized Japanese officials for mishandling their 1990s financial crisis, saying Japan's plight was ''self induced.'' Partly because of that expertise, American policy makers have long been confident, even during the darkest days of the current financial crisis, that the United States could avoid the fate of Japan and its two lost decades.
But now, with growing signs that the United States might be a lot closer to a Japan-style slump than previously thought, that confidence is waning.
In the United States, a robust recovery remains stubbornly elusive, and Mr. Bernanke is said to be ready to take new, unconventional steps to increase the money supply in order to maintain the uncertain growth of the past year. He is also said by close associates to favor further fiscal measures to stimulate the economy. But in the current political climate, with Republicans poised to make strong gains in the midterm elections while preaching fiscal austerity, the prospect of more federal stimulus spending seems remote, and it is unclear if monetary policy alone will be enough to restore healthy growth.
Partly as a result, some economists now predict that it could take years or even a decade for the American economy to regain the levels of employment and vigor achieved before the 2008 crisis. The growing political pressure for cuts in federal spending -- along with plunging consumer confidence and companies that seem more intent on cutting costs and hoarding cash than investing in new growth -- have led economists to talk of the United States' entering a grim new era of austerity.
That is very close to what befell Japan two decades ago, when the seemingly invincible Asian economic juggernaut fell into a deep rut of chronically anemic demand and corrosive price declines, known as deflation, from which it has never fully recovered. The parallels are so striking, and unsettling, that economists are now taking a renewed look at Japan for insights on how the United States can avoid the deflation trap.
''There has been a political and intellectual arrogance in the United States that it won't happen to us,'' said Adam S. Posen, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''We shouldn't be so smug. You can get there without being Japan.''
Indeed, the financial crisis that crippled Japan's once high-flying economy appears an eerie precursor of the one that struck much of the global economy in 2008. In Japan, a huge expansion in credit created twin price bubbles in the land and stock markets that, when they burst in the late 1980s and early 1990s, left banks and other companies drowning in failed real estate investments.
But perhaps the most alarming part is what came next: a collapse in demand that pushed prices and ultimately wages into a self-reinforcing deflationary spiral, which made already stingy individuals and businesses even less willing to use money, because falling prices meant that cash itself gained in value.
Japan has remained trapped in this spiral despite the equivalent of trillions of dollars in stimulus spending, more than a decade of near-zero interest rates and even unconventional steps by the central bank similar to those now contemplated by Mr. Bernanke, like purchasing corporate and government bonds to increase the money supply.
Despite the strong parallels, there are still reasons to think the United States can escape what has been called Japanification.
The United States and Japan are very different, culturally and politically, and Japan faces a host of unique problems that have sapped its vitality, like a rapidly aging populace that has created generational tensions, and the closing of its doors to immigration and the youthful labor and fresh ideas that can bring. Economists say the dynamic United States economy has shaken off seemingly intractable slumps before, as in the frightening recession of 1980-82, when conditions and the prospects for recovery seemed, for a while, every bit as bleak as they do now.
However, some warn that the United States could still get it wrong, especially if the midterm elections produced a sharply divided political landscape.
''The danger is if the U.S. plunges into policy paralysis just like Japan in the 1990s,'' said Shumpei Takemori, an economist at Keio University in Tokyo. ''Ideological divides and political divides can make bold policy action impossible.''
In fact, some economists warn that the United States may be deeper into Japan-style stagnation than is widely realized. Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, estimates that the total output of the American economy this year will be no higher by his estimate than it was in 2006.
''We've already lost half a decade,'' said Mr. Johnson, now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In addition, economists say, Japan had one advantage the United States does not. With its high savings rate, the government could borrow from its own domestic sources at minuscule rates to finance trillions of dollars in stimulus projects. By contrast, the United States has to sell its government bonds to foreign investors, who are likely to demand higher interest rates as its national debt grows.
Leading Japanese economists also said their nation's many failures -- like the 1997 tax increase -- yielded one crucial lesson on combating the aftereffects of a financial panic: the need to avoid policy flip-flops.
''The lesson is that there is a proper sequence for pulling a nation out of a financial crisis,'' said Heizo Takenaka, an economist who was the architect of the successful cleanup of Japan's banking system in the early 2000s. ''First, you restore growth before worrying about deficits.''
However, Mr. Takenaka acknowledged that while the banking problems have been largely fixed, Japan has yet to come up with a strategy for restoring growth, which he says is the only way to end deflation.
This month, Japan's central bank pushed its benchmark rate back down to zero. However, central bankers here argue that it is not enough just to loosen monetary policy when a lack of borrowers and new investment means there is no demand for money to start with. And this points to another feature of Japan's experience that may already be visible in the United States: the paradox of a stagnant economy that is awash in cash.
This occurs when companies and individuals stop spending and banks stop lending for fear that anemic growth and rising bankruptcies will result in defaults. This is particularly apparent in regional economies outside Tokyo, which remains relatively vibrant.
In a healthy economy, banks typically lend out more money than they have on deposit. But in Osaka, Japan's third largest city and commercial hub, nearly two decades of hoarding of cash created the unusual situation in 2002 of deposits at all the city's banks surpassing their outstanding volume of loans. Since 1997, the total amount of loans by the city's banks has fallen by a third, to $530 billion, while deposits have risen by 20 percent, to $767 billion.
''Deflation has made everyone very conservative and eager to hold cash,'' said Hiroshi Tanaka, a senior director at Osaka Shinkin Bank. ''We have too much cash and nowhere to invest it all.''
This has created distortions in Japan's economy. One is a sharp drop in the number of times cash changes hands in normal business and spending transactions. This so-called velocity of money has dropped to about a third the level of the United States, according to figures from the Mizuho Research Institute in Tokyo.
Another distortion is Japan's so-called dresser savings -- the piles of cash that individuals keep at home for fear that their banks may also go bankrupt. These stashes are estimated to total about $370 billion, according to Akira Otani, a researcher at the Bank of Japan.
Economists see early signs that the United States is heading down the same path. Recent data shows a surge in savings rates to 6.4 percent in June from less than 1 percent in 2005, reflecting consumers' reluctance to spend, and continued disinflation.
The picture is not entirely bleak for the United States, where the constant drive to innovate can produce bursts of growth that few economists or anyone else can see coming. While Japan was seen once as an unstoppable powerhouse, the picture was altered by wave after wave of technological innovation in the United States -- the personal computer industry, then the Internet and Web businesses, smart phones, and mobile software. That dynamism, economists note, is often wrenching. But it also means that investment dollars and people shift more rapidly to new opportunities. In Japan, though, such painful payroll cuts and corporate deaths were postponed for years.
The American approach to economic adjustment is ''shock treatment,'' said Edward J. Lincoln, director of the Center for Japan-U.S. Business and Economic Studies at New York University, while ''Japan favors stability and the corporate socialization of the pain.''
''Deep down inside, as an American,'' Mr. Lincoln said, ''I tend to think that the United States' approach makes for a healthier economy in the long run.''
The Great Deflation: This series examines the effects on Japanese society of two decades of stagnation and declining prices. The previous article is on: nytimes.com/world

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank of Japan's headquarters. Japan is in an economic morass from which it has yet to emerge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSEI KATO/REUTERS) (A8) CHART: Unsettling Similarities: In the late 1990s, the Japanese economy began a long period of stagnation as low inflation turned into years of deflation, or falling prices. Policy makers there are still struggling to get the economy growing again. Some economists are concerned that the United States may be getting close to facing the same problems. (Source: O.E.C.D.) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



846 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Steps by Bank of America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Mortgage Morass'' (editorial, Oct. 26) does not mention the steps that Bank of America has taken to avoid foreclosures. 
We initiated a nationwide suspension of foreclosures to clear the air of industrywide concerns that were raised about how mortgage servicers have managed the process. We made improvements that we believe will help ensure confidence that the underlying basis for foreclosure, and the associated paperwork, is appropriate.
Foreclosure is a wrenching situation affecting far too many people. No institution has generated more programs than Bank of America to keep people in their homes during this unprecedented housing downturn.
We bought Countrywide Financial at a time when that company's failure would have been devastating to the economy and to millions of homeowners. We have completed 700,000 loan modifications and have doubled our staff helping delinquent customers to 20,000 associates.
Despite our efforts, far too many customers have been affected by an economy that has left them unemployed or severely underemployed to a point that leaves even a modified mortgage payment out of reach.
We don't claim perfection and will address mistakes quickly when they arise, but Bank of America is doing all we can to keep people in their homes, or ensure a fair, consistent process if that is not possible.
Barbara J. Desoer President Bank of America Home Loans Calabasas, Calif., Oct. 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010



847 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EXPLORER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: In Ontario, a Small Boat Meets a Big Lake

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
''ARE you claustrophobic?'' my friend Leif Larsen wanted to know.
Nothing good has ever come of that question, I thought. No, I answered.
''Well, I am,'' Leif said. ''Why don't you see if you can fit in the quarter berth?''
No one had yet tried to sleep in the twin storage compartments of Leif's 18-and-a-half-foot sailboat, a Cape Dory Typhoon. He'd bought the keel boat on eBay last winter, along with a trailer and motor, for the low, low price of $2,550. (Thank you, global financial crisis!) Now, we were on the docks of Northern Harbour, a marina on the Canadian side of Lake of the Woods, in Ontario.
I wriggled my body, supine, into the low, narrow space below the cockpit seats. The berth was maybe 16 inches high and 22 inches wide. 
Having never sailed before, and unfamiliar with nautical lingo, I hadn't realized that the quarter berth was designed less for a full-size person than for a hobbit. Being the height of an average N.B.A. shooting guard, I couldn't turn over onto my side. I couldn't lift my knees. I couldn't spend another minute in this tomb. Wherever we ended up anchoring during our five-day sailing voyage, I wouldn't be sleeping down there.
The scale of the tiny berth was all the more laughable given the vastness of our setting. Stretching across almost 1,500 square miles and straddling Ontario, Manitoba and Minnesota, Lake of the Woods is sweeping -- the largest body of fresh water located (at least partly) in the United States, after the Great Lakes. Its 14,000 islands and storied cabin culture have made it a holiday destination for generations of families. Or, in our case, two guys ditching their families.
Every year the lake also attracts its own armada: the Lake of the Woods International Sailing Association Regatta, which we'd be following for the first few days of our trip. This August, the sailing association sent 47 sailboats on a racing and cruising tour of the northern half of the lake. On Monday morning, we were the 46th boat to leave the docks at the marina, give or take a boat.
The cheapskate in me was galled at having to pay $125 for boat insurance. That was until we surveyed a few of the gleaming, six-figure performance cruisers that launched before us. Forget about racing tactics: we had struggled to load our sailboat on the car trailer. The week before, Leif confessed, his wife had started referring to us as Gilligan and the Skipper.
Alas, I was Gilligan. Leif, at least, had taken a series of sailing lessons on White Bear Lake, near his home in St. Paul, Minn. By training, Leif is a lawyer -- if, by ''lawyer,'' you mean a 45-year-old who doesn't practice law, takes care of his two daughters and cultivates vast collections and unusual hobbies. His latest pursuit: 30-year-old sailboats by the Swedish-born designer Carl Alberg, like our eBay special.
By the time we reached the mouth of Pine Portage Bay, near the north shore, and headed into the main lake, the racing boats were almost out of sight. Bobbing there in the water, I experienced the helpless, hapless feeling one has when he leaves for a hectic day of work before sunrise, knowing full well that he won't return home until his family is long asleep. We raised the genoa -- a headsail for light winds that hangs in front of the mast. And it drooped there, flaccid.
A boat named Aries pulled alongside us. ''It's a long course today,'' said Rod Nuttall. He and his wife, Marianne, were the designated shepherds for the 16 boats in the regatta's non-competitive cruising division. That made us lost sheep.
''Do you think we should start up the motor?'' Leif said.
''You could also sail until midnight,'' Rod said.
We managed to sail for maybe an hour before the night's anchorage in Witch Bay, a sheltered cove ringed by outcrops of granite and copses of jack pine. Fifty feet from shore, boats were tied up in clusters, like teenagers in the cafeteria finding the right lunch table. We nosed in next to a 24-foot sailboat, captained by Jeff Bath, a 46-year-old pharmacist from Kenora, Ontario.
''Throw us a rope,'' Jeff said. And just like that, we were mates. Not that we had much choice: we'd spend all evening and the next morning in this makeshift flotilla of a half-dozen boats.
Sooner or later, the other sailors told us, everybody hits a reef in Lake of the Woods. For us, it was sooner. The next morning, we cut a corner, swinging around an island on our port side while the regatta veered to starboard. We kissed a rock, hidden in the shallows. Then we pinballed into a second rock, and gave that one a jarring smack.
''I'll have to feel around under the hull tonight,'' Leif said. ''Not that I know what it usually feels like.''
We'd picked up a two-and-a-half-foot-square waterproof map -- Canadian Hydrographic Service Chart 6212. It seemed to have a depth marker for every rock on the lake. Unfortunately, these landmarks looked as similar as Taco Bells on the Interstate. It was unsettling, I thought, how you could have a reasonable sense of location and feel utterly lost at the same time.
Though the waves had been calm, I could feel a steady roll when I closed my eyes. Not helping matters, it was tequila night at that evening's moorage in Moore Bay. On the reedy beach, Fred Finlayson, the regatta's commodore, mixed frozen margaritas in a gas-powered blender. He ripped back the pull cord, and the blender roared like a chain saw. For hour after hour, the drinks sloshed around like bilge water.
Leif and I decided we didn't need to stick around for rum night on Wednesday. Instead, we set a course for Crow Rock Lodge, on the western side of the lake. We had reserved a cabin at the small, rustic fishing resort for $70 each.
The sky was dark and low; the woods onshore appeared almost flat, like a sylvan mural. Then, in a start, both tree and sky came to life. Our VHF radio in the cabin murmured: a potent storm was blowing in.
''Should we try to get behind that island?'' Leif asked, turning the boat northward. A moment later the storm answered for me: don't bother.
Conventional wisdom says a well-ballasted craft like Leif's Cape Dory Typhoon is too stable to capsize. The summer squall that tore through Lake of the Woods that early afternoon put that claim to the test. Winds of 45 knots -- 50-plus miles per hour -- made a bull run at the sails, punching the mast down toward the water. Like rodeo clowns, Leif and I scampered up to the high side of the sloping deck and hung on. When the boat righted itself, the cockpit had filled with a foot of water.
For a seasoned ocean sailor, the squall -- with its three-foot waves and pressure-wash of rain -- would have been a nuisance. For us, it was a kind of pop quiz in emergency preparedness -- and we didn't get an A or even a B. We'd misread the clouds and missed the first storm warning. I'd managed to strap on my life jacket -- my girlfriend had made me promise not to drown; Leif never found the time to let go of the tiller.
Rod Nuttall, ever the good shepherd, hailed us on the race radio.
''Everyone O.K.?'' Rod said.
Two boats with experienced captains had capsized, he told us. One shivering helmsman, having flipped his e-scow, a sporty racer, had been evacuated to the hospital in Kenora: a tow-rope line had tried to detach his thumb.
With the sun out again a few hours later, we emptied the quarter berths onto the docks at Crow Rock Lodge and surveyed the damage. We'd soaked our instant pancake mix and snapped a sail slide, a cheap, plastic fitting -- and that was it. By luck and by pluck, we were fine.
I'd had a mind to head south on Thursday and Friday, toward pictographs on some of the rock islands and reefs around Whitefish Bay. But the winds were sleepy and the sites were far away. Plus, Leif and I had had enough of the buzzing outboard motor, having chased the bigger, sleeker sailboats in the regatta at the beginning of the week. On our own now, we decided to follow the breeze into Micrometer Bay, a placid haven of protected shoreline without cottages fouling the view.
We followed the charts more easily now, picking our way between the islands like a running back weaving through the defense. In the afternoon, sport fishermen trawled by, three to a boat, hunting trophy muskellunge, an elusive, four-foot-long sea monster of the northern fresh waters. They threw out enormous plugs made of silvery spoons and gaudy feathers -- the drag queens of fishing lures.
By evening the anglers gave way to the real pros: white pelicans that looked like C-130 transport planes; loons, flying four to a squadron; and a solitary great blue heron -- an ultralight glider -- plucking sunfish out of the muddy shallows.
Leif and I were alone, with just a distant sailboat anchored across the bay. We swam for a half hour, or an hour, maybe, through the deep, cold water. I hauled myself up the rope ladder only when my teeth started chattering.
Dry and back on deck, I dug out my iPod dock and queued up Glenn Gould, the patron saint of Canadian eccentrics. The pianist hummed along with Bach's partitas, in his peculiar fashion, until the mosquitoes added their own tune at nightfall.
Tomorrow, we'd sail north, through the green labyrinth of isles, with the wind at our backs. Who knew where this little boat could take us?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake of the Woods has 14,000 islands and a storied cabin culture. It is also the site of the Lake of the Woods International Sailing Association Regatta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THERESA F. MCGRAW) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); LAKES (89%); BOAT RACING (76%); BOATING & RAFTING (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (68%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MANITOBA, CANADA (56%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



848 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Vintage, Yes, but Ready for Dirty Work

BYLINE: By BARRIE ALAN PETERSON

 BODY:
FROM Pebble Beach, Calif., to Greenwich, Conn., and at dozens of picturesque settings in between, shows for vintage vehicles offer enthusiasts the opportunity to rub elbows with historic machinery in country-club surroundings.
Not every gathering needs to be a concours d'elegance where white-gloved judges probe the undersides of pristine Duesenbergs in search of a historically incorrect hose clamp, however. A decidedly more populist show was the 21st Red Power Roundup, which attracted an estimated 25,000 people last June to the LaPorte County Fairgrounds in northwest Indiana to see some 2,000 tractors and trucks made by International Harvester.
One of more than 1,400 antique tractor events across North America in 2010 listed by Farm Collector magazine, it is considered by many in the hobby to be the World Series of farm tractor meets, a heartland counterpoint to blazer-and-ascot antique car events and casual suburban cruise nights.
To a casual spectator, the rows of gleaming red International tractors represent the steady progress of industry in modernizing crop production, but to the shrinking number of Americans rooted in farming, they represent a heroic era. From the early 20th century, tractors pulled plows and cultivating equipment, powered grain combines and hay balers, eventually hauling crops to the barn or to an elevator in town. They enabled American farmers to feed the world. 
International Harvester played an important role in mechanizing the farm, producing its first proprietary tractor design in 1908. The company's origins reach back to the invention of the reaper by Cyrus McCormick in 1831, and it had a powerful influence on Chicago.
By 1910 International was the country's fourth-largest company in America by the value of its assets, making trucks and farm equipment -- cotton pickers, manure spreaders and the other necessities of agriculture -- as well as tractors. The agricultural division was split off and sold in the 1980s, later merging with Case.
Though tractors live a rugged life, the farmer's reliance on them to earn a living assured a reasonable degree of mechanical care, so many survive. And they were designed for hard work.
''These tractors were made to be overhauled -- no planned obsolescence,'' said Dan Steiner, a supplier of restoration parts in Lennon, Mich.
As a result, when huge new machines were developed to work increasingly large farms, there was a ready supply of old tractors for restoration. And in many cases, the seasonal cycle of farm life helped to foster tractor restoration as a hobby, a productive way to fill the winter months.
For some farmers, it's both a business and a hobby. Jim Seymour and his father, Wayne, who run a garden tractor dealership in LaPorte, restore tractors in their garage, a process that involves disassembly down to the bare chassis before sandblasting, fixing all the worn or broken parts and finally painting. It's a pursuit that can turn into a habit: there are now some 30 tractors in the collections of Seymour family members.
To handle the endless logistics of a major show like the Red Power Roundup requires hundreds of dedicated volunteers. The 2010 roundup was hosted by the northern Indiana chapter of the National International Harvester Collectors Club. The national club has about 8,000 members.
Jerry Smoker is president of the northern Indiana chapter, a six-year-old group. Mr. Smoker is proud of the club's cohesiveness, noting that clubs formed for other tractor makers have often disbanded.
While county fairs and farm equipment meets often feature displays of distinctive green John Deere tractors, the bright red of International machinery, which includes the Farmall models and brand, is more frequently seen because the company was for many years the largest maker of tractors.
''International Harvester made their five-millionth tractor by 1974, while it took John Deere 10 more years to hit 2 million,'' said the editor of Red Power magazine, Dennis Miesner.
A bumper sticker popular among International partisans reads: ''If it ain't red, leave it in the shed.''
Finally, because International was an early maker of what became known as sport utility vehicles -- the Scout and Travelall utility vehicles -- a broader range of interest exists for International than for tractor-only brands.
Highlights of the 2010 roundup included popular country fair attractions like a working border collie demonstration, and there was an appearance by the 2009 Miss America, Katie Stam, who is a Hoosier and former 4-H member.
Daily machinery demonstrations showed the versatility of tractors, using a belt drive system to power a thresher, corn sheller and hay baler, and there was an auction of 110 International tractors, memorabilia and equipment that drew hundreds of bidders.
Rounding out the rural heritage displays were blacksmithing and craft demonstrations, a quilt contest and jug band; more than 150 vendors of restoration parts, magazines, memorabilia and farm toys exhibited in several 4-H livestock pole barns and a huge outdoor lot.
In the swap meet area, so many rusty red parts were available that, more than one attendee noted, a smart shopper could build a tractor from scratch by buying the shop manual for $30 and using it to shop for all the parts needed.
Other International Harvester products, including many types of heavy construction equipment -- even freezers and Cub Cadet garden tractors -- were displayed.
For some collectors, the tractors have become alternatives to stock market investments, with families designating tractors as assets for their children's college fund. But that is a minor motivation; most do it for the love of the machinery. As in the art world, the issue of provenance comes up.
''I keep getting requests to authenticate items,'' said Darrell Darst, editor of the club's quarterly publication, Harvester Highlights. '' 'Do your research' is all I can say.''
Farm toys, being part of the traditional antique business, attract many investors. But some collectors are taking a different approach. One collector, Jerry Mez, for instance, decided to create a museum with the items he accumulated, Farmall-Land, in Avoca, Iowa.
''Like many, I got the bug from my father,'' Mr. Mez said. ''My wife says it's a disease, but it's one of the better ones I could have.''
What is the future of antique tractor restoration and collecting? Will a new generation carry on the tradition?
Hugh Tonagel, an agricultural extension agent for LaPorte County, said that a small but steady group of farm boys -- with an occasional girl -- have become involved with the 4-H tractor maintenance club.
But James Shatava, a retired agricultural economist from the University of Wisconsin, is doubtful. ''Fewer students commented on my International Harvester sign in my office as the years went by,'' he said.
Among restorers it is said that tractor restoration starts out as a hobby, but makes a grown man into a damn fool. Mr. Smoker, the president of the northern Indiana chapter, added: ''And keeps a man out of the tavern.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VERSATILE: A pulley connected to the engine of a vintage Farmall tractor turns the belt that powers a thresher.
 LINEUP: Hundreds of restored tractors, resplendent in International Harvester's trademark color, were the main attraction of the Red Power Roundup. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAYMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); FARM LABOR (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CROP PRODUCTION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



849 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/CRANFORD, N.J.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: A Town for the Homebody

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
THIS is the kind of place that no one wants to leave. And those who do often find themselves angling to come back.
The Alexo family provides a good example. Ken Alexo Jr. grew up in Cranford but left after getting married: he and his wife, Alexandra, bought a house they could afford in Clark. Last October, eight years and three children later, they moved back to Cranford. Ms. Alexo said they had considered 30 or 40 houses, but only in Cranford. They ''never looked anywhere else,'' she said.
Ms. Alexo described her husband's obsession as a ''sickness'' -- but one she has come to empathize with. ''It's such a great place to grow up. You get attached; your roots are here. People just love it.''
Jessica Dreyer's roots go even further back. She is a fourth-generation farmer, helping her father and uncle run Dreyer Farms, the last working vegetable farm in Union County, which sits smack in the middle of this otherwise fully developed community. 
Since the seventh grade, Ms. Dreyer said, she has wanted to work on the family farm and produce market. After a stint as an estate gardener in the Hamptons, and a few years living in Morristown, where her husband runs a farm, she ended up back here.
''I never really got that small-town feeling anywhere else,'' said Ms. Dreyer, now 34. ''I know everyone here. And I wanted my children to have the opportunity to experience that.''
Janet Bauer, who grew up in Maine, and her husband, Matt, who grew up in North Jersey, had no ties to Cranford, so that when they bought their 1920s colonial five years ago, they viewed it as a short-term solution. ''We thought we'd only be here for two years,'' said Ms. Bauer, whose three children are now in school, ''but it just sucks you in.''
One reason that people find Cranford so livable can perhaps be attributed to the foresight of town officials, who in the 1980s created what is said to be New Jersey's first Special Improvement District, charging businesses a tax in exchange for downtown capital improvements and marketing support. That effort persists today, through Cranford's Downtown Management Corporation, which boasts a low 4.5 percent commercial vacancy rate, in part due to its efforts soliciting new businesses and promoting established ones.
Largely made up of independently owned shops and restaurants rather than the chain outlets found in neighboring Westfield, the commercial district enhances Cranford's small-town ambience. And that is palpable, even with nearly 23,000 residents and the busy campus of Union County College. There is the charm of the Rahway River, which meanders through the 4.8 square miles of town and is responsible for its improbable nickname, ''the Venice of New Jersey.''
There are also the children playing in the streets, the people jogging with their dogs in the park, the scarecrows hanging from lampposts throughout town, and the wildlife cutting through backyards. Cindy Ballas, whose property abuts Nomahegan Park, has played host to deer and other animals.
''I had a fox preening itself under the basketball hoop for a half hour,'' said Ms. Ballas, an analyst at Johnson & Johnson. ''Then I had a family of deer in the backyard. The mother jumped the fence, but I had to let her baby out through the gate.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Cranford was once a summer resort for New York City corporate chieftains. Many of its grander houses sit along the river; several even look more impressive from the back. Mayor Mark Smith described some backyards as ''so peaceful and quiet you could be in the middle of West Virginia.''
That said, the housing is eclectic, including turn-of-the-last-century Victorians, 1950s ranches, split-levels and Cape Cods, and a four-year-old luxury apartment building in the town's center just beside the commuter train station.
There is little new construction. Faith Maricic, a broker with Coldwell Banker, says this dismays clients who ''want that new floor plan and mudroom.'' Even so, Ms. Maricic said, most seem to get over it: many people come into her office specifically asking for Cranford.
''It's very cozy and down-to-earth and people want that,'' said Ms. Maricic, who is a Cranford resident.
Maria Tisdall, a chef and cookbook author, recently opened Cheese ... Please!, a gourmet shop on Eastman Street. She had praise for the development office, which she said had made starting a business easy. She also remarked on the camaraderie among fellow shopkeepers.
''Maybe people are friendlier because it's a walking town,'' Ms. Tisdall said, ''but everyone's been so supportive. And how perfect is it to be a cheese shop between a wine store and an artisanal bread shop?''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
When Jennifer Rodriguez, an associate scientist at Merck, began house-hunting with her fiance a couple of years ago, she thought they would be priced out of Cranford. But after looking at almost 100 homes, in places like Rahway and Linden, Cranford was where they ended up. Last fall they closed on a four-bedroom Cape Cod, for $330,000.
Around that same time, the Alexos closed on their three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath split level with a fully finished basement, paying $563,000. Ms. Alexo said it was the recession-driven decline in prices that had made it possible for her family to buy in Cranford.
There are about 95 homes on the market, and prices have remained relatively stable in the last year.
The average price of the homes sold in Cranford from the start of this year through September was $433,731, versus an average of $426,905 over all for 2009, according to Garden State Multiple Listing Service data provided by Ms. Maricic.
Of the single-family houses on the market, the highest price is $899,000, for a five-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath center-hall colonial. On the low end is a three-bedroom two-bath Cape built in 1928 and listed at $314,900.
Condominiums in English Village are going for about $260,000 for a two-bedroom one-bath, while a one-bedroom condo in Parkway Village is listed at $199,900. The mixed-use Cranford Crossing complex near the station has 95 loft-style one- and two-bedrooms with rents of $1,700 to $2,700 a month, parking included.
WHAT TO DO
There are plenty of activities for children, but not to the exclusion of the adults. Many residents are involved in one or more of the numerous organizations, among them three garden clubs, a historical society, a women's club and a nature conservancy.
At age 84, Elizabeth Youngs is a member of the Hanson Park Conservancy and is active in restoring the once-overgrown three-acre park on the Rahway River, which now includes a butterfly meadow and an open-air theater.
Nearby, the century-old Cranford Canoe Club rents canoes and kayaks for navigating local waterways. Nomahegan Park, a 100-acre county park on the northwest side of town, is circled by a heavily used two-mile jogging trail. Also, a 13.5-mile bike trail connects many of Cranford's 415 acres of parkland with the town center.
Besides the mix of restaurants and shops, there's a two-screen movie house as well as a coffee and music lounge. Then there's Union County College, which serves 13,000 full- and part-time students. Residents can take in a performance by its theater company, or an exhibit at the Tomasulo Art Gallery; the college also has a fitness center and an observatory.
THE SCHOOLS
The Cranford Public School District has consistently ranked high in statewide polls. This year Cranford High School ranked 13th in the state, according to data analyzed by the Monmouth University Polling Institute. The high school has about 1,100 enrollees, and offers 26 advanced-placement courses. SAT averages in 2009 were 542 in math, 526 in reading and 531 in writing, versus 515, 494 and 494 statewide.
In addition to Hillside Avenue and Orange Avenue Schools, which cover both elementary and middle school, the town has four elementary schools: Bloomingdale Avenue, Brookside Place, Walnut Avenue and Livingston Avenue. Lincoln School provides alternative education programs. Saint Michael's School is a private Catholic option, available through eighth grade.
THE COMMUTE
New Jersey Transit trains take about 48 minutes to get to Manhattan, but require a change at Pennsylvania Station in Newark. Buses, via New Jersey Transit's 113N train from North Avenue, take about 45 minutes. Cranford is 23 miles from Midtown; driving can take anywhere from half an hour to an hour.
THE HISTORY
Drawing from parts of Clark, Linden, Springfield, Union and Westfield, Cranford was incorporated in 1871.
In the Revolutionary War, grist and saw mills in the area supplied Washington's troops. Dating to 1740, Cranford's Williams-Droescher Mill is the oldest continually operating commercial building in New Jersey, according to the Cranford Historical Society. Commercial activity grew in the mid- to late 1800s with the railroad and the Rahway River, also the site of pleasure boating and river carnivals.
Correction: November 7, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry for a property on the market with the ''Living In'' article last Sunday about Cranford, N.J., gave an incorrect telephone number. The listing agent for the house at 24 Madison Avenue can be reached at (908) 233-0065.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VIEWFINDER: A number of Cranford's grander houses, along Hampton Road, back up to the Rahway River. Some were built for wealthy New Yorkers during the town's heyday as a summer resort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY FARMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); CITIES (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010



850 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Sailing Alone

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL PHILBRICK. 
Nathaniel Philbrick is the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea,'' ''Mayflower'' and, most recently, ''The Last Stand.''

 BODY:
THE HARD WAY AROUND
The Passages of Joshua Slocum
By Geoffrey Wolff
Illustrated. 218 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95
I grew up loving Joshua Slocum's ''Sailing Alone Around the World.'' It was ''Walden'' without the training wheels. Whereas Thoreau made so much of his precious solitude in a shack only a couple of miles from his home in Concord, Slocum actually put himself at risk. In his 50s, pistol-whipped by fate, he set out in a largely self-built 36-foot sailboat and somehow managed to circumnavigate the earth. He might have been without a crew, but he was hardly alone; he had the magical Spray for a companion: a vessel that could literally steer herself for hundreds of miles at a time while he reclined contentedly in his book-lined cabin eating salt cod and reading ''Don Quixote.'' For a landlocked teenager who had both nautical and literary ambitions, Slocum was almost too good to be true. 
I also developed an early appreciation for the writer Geoffrey Wolff, whose 1979 book ''The Duke of Deception'' remains one of my favorite memoirs. When I learned that Wolff had written a biography of Slocum, it seemed an ideal pairing. But a disturbing doubt began to creep into my consciousness. Did I really want to know more about Joshua Slocum? No real person could possibly measure up to the narrator of ''Sailing Alone Around the World.'' And as Wolff writes in one of the many fascinating notes in his new book, there is no accounting for how a reader will react to the subject of a biography. ''The responses of book reviewers to subjects of biography are as unpredictable as the responses of a friend to someone introduced with the assurance 'You'll love her.' ''
I needn't have worried. ''The Hard Way Around'' is the best of books: a literary biography that also happens to be an adventure story. As it turns out, Slocum's back story is just as enthralling, if not more so, than anything that happened to him aboard the Spray. Indeed, portions of his life read like a novel by Robert Louis Stevenson. Instead of subjecting Slocum to the needless third degree, Wolff approaches his subject as an unapologetic fan. At one point, he recounts his initial, completely unexpected response to an early passage in ''Sailing Alone Around the World'': ''I stumbled on this run of language, bearing its load so easily, and the emotional burden it discharges so cunningly. Taking my breath away, it made me feel what I can only describe as love.''
Wolff does not fall victim to the modern obsession with having to find a new, never-before-glimpsed scrap of useless information about a time-worn topic; he is content, and self-confident enough, to provide his own view of the existing record. Instead of being intimidated by the many researchers and writers who have come before him in the search for Slocum, he embraces their labors. He even concludes with a passage from another author. After finishing this little book (which I did not want to end), I decided it was worthy of the admonition the British children's writer Arthur Ransome directed toward prospective readers of Slocum's narrative: those ''who do not like this book ought to be drowned at once.''
Part of what makes Slocum, who was born in Nova Scotia in 1844, such a mesmerizing figure was his determination to be a sailor at a time when steam power was clearly where the maritime future lay. Was Slocum, a willful anachronism, being foolhardy or simply true to an imperishable ideal? Wolff has fun with exploring the issue: ''Doesn't everyone know that in our beginning is our end? But So what doesn't account for his plunge off the deep end. Almost any calling that might be considered -- poet or autoworker or jazz pianist -- seems from the perspective of common sense to be quixotic and probably doomed. Maybe it is enough to say So what?''
Which raises the question: Was Slocum's golden age of sail all that golden? Well, yes and no. Many of the crews of these big and beautiful square-riggers were, according to at least one account, filled by ''moronic bipeds'' -- drunken, violent lowlifes with no other options. And yet, Wolff points out, the skills required to work these ships were considerable. ''Anyone who has struggled -- from the comfort of a cozy easy chair in front of a cheering fire -- to comprehend the names and purposes of the parts aboard one of Patrick O'Brian's ships will appreciate the complexity of a novice seaman's task.'' In the end, Wolff, like most of us with a soft spot for the sea, cannot contain his enthusiasm for the bygone days when huge commercial sailing vessels paused briefly in the harbors of the world like ''greyhounds straining sleekly at their heavy chain leashes, about to weigh anchor and fill the sky with canvas and go to the other side of the earth at speeds more appropriate to a locomotive than a boat.''
At the age of 26, during a stop in Sydney, Australia, Slocum fell almost instantly in love with the pretty and determined Virginia Walker. In two weeks' time they were married. Thus began one of the great, ultimately tragic love stories of the sea. Virginia followed her husband from command to command: fishing for salmon in the northern Pacific, building a boat in the boa-infested jungles of the Philippines and standing at his side as he spectacularly shoehorned the 100-foot bark Amethyst into the crowded anchorage at Hong Kong under the very nose of a British admiral. Not long after, Slocum became part owner and master of one of the largest and most beautiful sailing vessels afloat, the Northern Light. Slocum considered this command to be the highlight of his career, but not Wolff, who rightly points out that ''hardheaded prudence often enjoys a holiday when sailboats are being considered.'' Although big and beautiful, the Northern Light was anything but well built -- an essential fact that Slocum seems to have stubbornly ignored. A poisonous combination of breakdowns and crew problems soon ensnared him in a variety of legal difficulties that ultimately forced him to sell his share of the vessel.
With the prices of large, antiquated square-riggers plummeting, Slocum managed to buy the 138-foot Aquidneck at auction. Soon after, however, while the ship was anchored off Buenos Aires, Virginia succumbed to what may have been a congenital heart defect and died at the age of 34. Slocum had lost the love of his life. ''Father's days were done with the passing of mother,'' his son Benjamin, who was one of four children, remembered. ''They were pals.''
Wolff's account of his hero's subsequent, more familiar career as a solo sailor is adroitly and economically told. Wolff speaks of the ''imperviousness of Slocum's emotional bulkheads, tightly sealed against the penetration of despair or complaint.'' But as he also points out, ''grief is not date-stamped,'' and the sadness hidden within Slocum during his globe-girdling voyage is what drives much of the emotional energy of ''Sailing Alone Around the World.''
After the publication of his narrative, Slocum's sadness got the better of him. He purchased a farm for himself and his second wife, Henrietta, on Martha's Vineyard but seems to have spent most of his days continuing to sail alone on the increasingly dilapidated Spray, heading south in the winter and cruising the Cape and islands in the summer. He was last seen departing the Vineyard in November 1908. What happened after that will never be known. One theory holds that he and the Spray were run down and sunk in the shipping lanes by one of the iron-hulled steamers he so despised -- ''that in effect,'' Wolff writes, ''he was murdered by modernity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF JOSHUA SLOCUM FROM ''THE HARD WAY AROUND''
 NEW BEDFORD WHALING MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LITERATURE (88%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); WRITERS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

TITLE: Hard Way Around: The Passages of Joshua Slocum, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



851 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: A Polish-American Paper's Final Edition

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
After 51 years and countless articles about Polish parades, banquets in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and, especially, polka, The Polish American World confronted readers with an editorial recently that was as sad as it was inevitable.
''Why We Are Closing Shop,'' read the headline in the Oct. 22 edition. Beneath that, Thomas Poster, the founder and permanent editor, laid it out clearly, as he had learned to do over seven decades in journalism. ''It is simply an economic fiasco,'' he wrote. ''So we have to close.''
On Monday, Mr. Poster, 83, and his publisher, Helen R. Glinka -- also his wife of 62 years -- folded, stamped and mailed the newspapers from their Long Island home to the roughly 1,000 subscribers still hanging on. It was the last enactment of a weekly ritual that began with the inaugural issue, Feb. 6, 1959.
The Polish American World, an English-language paper that reached 4,000 immigrants and their descendants only a few years ago, was more community booster than watchdog. It focused on the Pulaski Parade Committee, the Kosciuszko Foundation and nostalgia for the Greenpoint of generations past. It was unconcerned with copyright laws, reprinting at will articles that mentioned Poland from larger papers. It carried two polka columns. 
The newspaper has not missed an issue since it started, despite Mr. Poster's open-heart surgery, carotid artery surgery, two strokes and a bout with pneumonia.
''I feel guilty that I'm closing the paper, but it can't be printed at the cost,'' Mr. Poster said. ''I've been practically begging for ads.'' Annual subscriptions cost $25 (up from $3 in 1959), which has not quite been enough to keep the paper in the black: it costs about $1,500 per week to produce. ''I paid $480 at the post office last week,'' Mr. Poster said. ''That's a lot of dough! For one issue of the paper!''
The paper has had a Web site for the past several years, and Mr. Poster said he considered moving the operation online. Then he thought, ''At my age, I'm not interested.''
Other newspapers cover Polish-American communities in the region, including The Post-Eagle, which is published in New Jersey. And lots of other community newspapers are published from home offices and spare bedrooms. But The Polish American World stood out thanks to its modest size and impressive longevity.
''It takes a lot of determination to run a newspaper for so long, so that really makes it special,'' said Jehangir Khattak of the New York Community Media Alliance.
Mr. Poster was born and raised in Greenpoint, the son of a Polish immigrant. He began his first newspaper job when he was 14, and he wrote for six newspapers, including The Daily News, where he worked for more than two decades until he retired in 1993. He said he founded The World after reading one too many slights against Polish people in the society editor's column of the Greenpoint Weekly Star in the 1950s.
For years, Mr. Poster went to community events nearly every night and wrote most of the articles himself. He solicited columns from friends, encouraging them to mention as many names as possible. ''I believe names make news,'' he explained. ''Without names, there's no news.''
Since the paper's early days, an editorial mainstay has been the defense of Polish-Americans against perceived knocks. A recent front-page article took offense at a Long Island hospital's healthy eating campaign that singled out kielbasa and onions as heart-attack bait. In the same edition, a columnist railed against traffic reporters who mangled the pronunciation of the Kosciuszko Bridge. (It should be ''Kos-CHUS-ko.'')
In the second-to-last issue, Mr. Poster extended an invitation to ''anyone that wishes to assume responsibility of publishing a successor newspaper.''
''I had a good time writing, meeting people, reporting,'' he said. ''I considered it performing a service for the community.''
Excerpts from The Polish American World over the decades: Warsaw Today If one were to travel to Warsaw today, he would find a city of marked contrasts. Everywhere the ruins and scars that were the horror of World War II are to be seen. Side by side with these is a city slowly rising from the dead. Unfortunately, Warsaw, like the rest of Poland, is rising very slowly. Unfortunately, too, many of the comparisons made about it are completely unjust. This injustice is rather obvious when we hear travelers compare conditions in Poland with conditions in America. Eugene Kuseilewicz, Feb. 6, 1959 Zaleski Is Named Suffolk's Attorney Suffolk County Democrats started the New Year's off by appointing a Polish- American attorney to the $20,000-a-year post of county attorney. The first Pole and first Democrat in the job since veteran politicians can remember is Jenry M. Zaleski, of Riverhead L.I. Jan. 15, 1960 Press Was Always There for the Annual Pulaski Day Parade Let us unite on Super Sunday, Oct. 2, 1988, to stage our grand spectacular parade along Fifth Avenue, led by Carole Buchalska-Golis of Maspeth, the parade's grand marshal. In solidarity with one another and with our brothers and sisters in Poland, let us display a message to the world of a unified Polonia, carrying out our themes so that they may be seen and heard by all. Boleslaus J. Zapolski, Sept. 2, 1988 Heroin Overdose Killed 600 The sad story of Paul and Kathy Schroeder, two of New York City's estimated 250,000 regular heroin users, illustrates the changing face of the city's stubborn heroin problems. Since 1991, heroin has transformed the Schroeders from comfortable middle- class homeowners in Wayne, N.Y., to addicts living in a homeless shelter in Harlem, scavenging bottles from trash cans and shooting up in rubble-strewn lots. Leon Nadrowsi, June 11, 1999 Time to Say Farewell and Goodbye . . . It's Time to Go! How do you say goodbye after 51 years of publishing a weekly newspaper? What kind of language could you use to say farewell, God bless, and it's been so good to know you these many years. But we have come to the crossroads of life when we must bid you a fond farewell. There are tears in our eyes. We have gotten to know some of you through the many stories we have carried and events that we had to attend, the comings and goings of our everyday lives. . . . Events will carry on, just that there will no longer be a Polish American World to report on the activities. Too bad. We wish you good luck in all your future endeavors, and on behalf of our staff, our columnists and volunteer workers, we wish all Polonia a very happy, successful future. Always remember: nothing can stop Polonia. Oct. 29, 2010

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLOSING SHOP: Thomas Poster, 83, founder and editor of The Polish American World, which began printing on Feb. 6, 1959. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); PARADES & MARCHES (52%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (51%); COPYRIGHT LAW (51%); COPYRIGHT (51%); PNEUMONIA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); KOSCIUSZKO FOUNDATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



852 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: The Super Is Us

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
AUTUMN is in the air. Up next will be winter frost, colored lights, fancy windows, the ball dropping in Times Square -- and, quite possibly, yet another annual increase in monthly charges for co-op and condo residents.
Many factors are to blame for the increases: rising insurance premiums, energy costs and property taxes, among others. But as charges start to rival or even exceed some monthly mortgage payments, many people are wondering whether there's a less expensive way.
For some buildings there is. It's called self-management.
A small percentage of buildings in New York City, most of them with only a handful of units, operate on a system that might draw shudders from apartment owners accustomed to running to the super or calling a managing agent for any concern. Residents of self-managed buildings do everything themselves: They take out the trash. They shovel the snowy sidewalks. They hire the contractor to fix the roof. They balance the books. They file the forms and permits required by the city Department of Buildings and Department of Finance. They enforce the building rules -- no exceptions for friends and (obviously) neighbors -- on everything from pets to renovations. 
The money saved through pure self-management can be significant, and that of course is the main attraction. For example, a self-managed 12-unit prewar co-op in Park Slope, where two-bedroom apartments have sold recently for $589,000 and $575,000, has monthly charges of about $550 to $750 for such units, a board member said. This is significantly less than for similar units in the neighborhood.
As the economy stumbles and the search persists for ways to shave expenses, some people in the real estate industry have noticed a growing interest in the do-it-yourself route.
Rebecca Poole, the president of Real Estate Management Group, which provides management and consulting to co-ops, teaches a three-part workshop every fall on self-management through the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. Over the past year, Ms. Poole said, the sessions have begun to attract representatives from buildings that are larger than the typical self-managed property.
Many have been from buildings in the 16- to 30-unit range, she said. That is a size at which management fees typically account for a larger proportion of the budget than they would in larger buildings, which can achieve economies of scale.
There are buildings -- many of them very large, like the 700-unit Schwab House on the Upper West Side -- that describe themselves as self-managed because they employ a staff on site instead of contracting with a managing agent. But that is a case of semantics. Those buildings are professionally run.
No one keeps statistics on the number of self-managed buildings in the city -- or on those properties that may have tried hands-on and given up.
''It's a lot of work,'' Ms. Poole cautioned.
''It's like a second job,'' said Joseph Iacono, the president of the board of a newly self-managed condo on 19th Street in the Flatiron district. ''Some agency is always sending some notice that someone has to deal with. Guess who gets to deal with that?''
Still, he estimates the 11-unit building will save as much as $18,000 a year on fees to a managing agent.
Mr. Iacono, who already has a time-consuming first job as a hedge fund manager, has been spending about 10 hours a week meeting with contractors about roof repairs. But he does have backup. Like many self-managed operations, his building deploys some of its funds for paid help, in this case a superintendent.
''It would be more difficult to self-manage if we did not have a full-time super,'' Mr. Iacono said. ''He is available to deal with the day-to-day activities such as attending to the unit owners' needs, as well as meeting with contractors when necessary. I don't think, frankly, we could have done this without a super,'' Mr. Iacono said. ''He can deal with garbage, contractors. He's been with the building 30 years. That makes a big difference in our ability to effectively manage the building.''
Self-managed buildings often decide to hire custodians to clean the lobby and deal with the trash. Usually they need some specialized professional assistance, like a lawyer and an accountant. Some buildings contract with a part-time superintendent at a neighboring building to be on call in case there is an emergency.
But the more you spend the less you save. Ellen Brickman is the vice president of the board of a 12-unit self-managed co-op in Park Slope. Before she moved to the building in 2006, her only experience with co-op living had been in a 48-unit professionally managed building in Brooklyn.
''I was used to picking up the phone or sending an e-mail saying, 'How do I get this taken care of?' '' Ms Brickman said. In her current building, she quipped, ''You're picking up the phone to call someone, and that someone you are calling is you.''
The residents divide duties: one is in charge of contacting the exterminator; another deals with contractors for building repairs; and, as Ms. Brickman notes, ''we are blessed with a couple of people who enjoy shoveling snow.'' But often tasks fall to whoever happens to be around. ''Someone sees the wind has blown trash all over the sidewalk, someone sweeps it up,'' she said.
One day last year a sewage pipe burst at 11 a.m. ''It was horrible, utterly revolting,'' Ms. Brickman recalled. Since she works from home, she found herself in charge. She summoned a contractor and ''we stayed on top of it,'' she said. ''Whoever's here when a crisis hits, manages it.''
Residents of self-managed buildings often feel that they are the best possible stewards, since it is their investment that is at stake. ''It's hard work and a thankless task,'' said Mary Ann Rothman, the executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, ''and yet it's hard to think of a building getting that kind of attention from a managing agent.''
Until recently, Mr. Iacono's building on 19th Street was run by a sponsor who owned four units. He turned operations over to the condo owners after selling his units in June. ''For the building it's a tremendous opportunity,'' Mr. Iacono said. ''Now we can operate for the betterment of us.''
And yet, he said, given all the work involved and the potential discomfort in having to act as arbiters in disputes among neighbors who are also friends, the board has been discussing the possibility of turning operations over to a management company. It has gone so far as to interview some candidates but has yet to make a decision.
And hands-on management does have detractors. ''I'm not a huge fan of self-managed buildings,'' said Jeffrey Schwartz, a partner in the real estate practice at the law firm Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz. ''I don't think in most cases that the people who do the self-managing either have the time or are as versed as they should be on managing a building.'' He is often hired to help self-managed buildings deal with thorny situations.
For one thing, a few people usually end up shouldering most of the work. For another, the personal touch may not be best when it comes to dealing with a dispute or a broken rule. Intervention by the board member upstairs can be awkward; a letter from a professional managing agent is efficient and detached.
One of the stickier wickets involves residents who are late paying their common charges. ''Their neighbor calling them up and knowing they're delinquent, maybe that's an impetus to pay on time,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''But if someone can't pay because they're having financial problems, then you have a board member who's put in an uncomfortable situation of having to call and ask for the money.''
That's when he is often asked to step in, Mr. Schwartz said. ''They will call me up and say: 'I just can't do this. I know that guy down the hall.' '' Naturally, he is paid for his letter to the offender, which starts to defeat the purpose of self-management.
Scott Klein, an associate broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman who has recently sold units in self-managed buildings (and lived in one himself in the 1980s), says that prospective buyers don't usually care if a building is self-managed.
''Like anything else, it really depends on the buyer,'' he said. ''For buyers that want to live in brownstone or limestone small buildings, my suspicion is that they are aware that this would generally be a possibility.''
Ms. Brickman said that during buyer interviews, she and fellow board members recently started emphasizing ''what it means to live in a self-managed building,'' to ensure ''that people are buying in with the understanding that they will be expected to step up to the plate.''
That doesn't seem to scare most buyers, she said. After all, ''that's what makes our maintenance relatively low.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: YEA AND NAY: Jeffrey Schwartz, above left, a lawyer, is wary of self-managed buildings. Rebecca Poole teaches a how-to seminar. Top, Scott Klein, an associate broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman, says buyers are seldom put off by a D.I.Y. building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN WEBER) (RE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (57%)

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY H SCHWARTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



853 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING HOBOKEN; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: A Smorgasbord Of Latin American Fare

BYLINE: By DIEGO RIBADENEIRA. 
Ultramarinos, 260 Third Street, Hoboken; (201) 238-2797. ultramarinos.biz.

 BODY:
HOBOKEN, N.J.
WHEN Spain ruled much of Latin America, goods from its far-flung lands -- sugar from Cuba, chocolate from Venezuela, coffee from Colombia -- were sent back home and sold in specialty stores known as ultramarinos.
These shopping emporiums, reflecting the culinary diversity of the Americas -- ''ultramarinos'' translates roughly to ''from beyond the seas'' -- are the inspiration for a modest specialty food shop on an unassuming block in Hoboken. 
In keeping with the spirit of its name, Ultramarinos is stocked with a smorgasbord of dishes that crisscross the vast expanse of Latin America: Cartagena-style braised stuffed eye-of-round, Peruvian lamb stew and chicken mole tamales made as they are in Oaxaca, Mexico.
Turning a tiny storefront in northern New Jersey into a market that harks back to the Spanish Empire might seem a stretch, but it is thoroughly in keeping with the career of the woman who helped conceive it: Maricel Presilla has never thought small.
A blend of ambition, perseverance and talent has made her one of the more celebrated Latin American chefs in the country, and co-owner of two highly acclaimed restaurants in Hoboken, Zafra, emphasizing Cuban food, and Cucharamama, with a focus on South American dishes. The James Beard Foundation chose her last year as one of its nominees for best mid-Atlantic chef.
Ms. Presilla was invited to the White House last October to cook for a Latin American gala at which Justice Sonia Sotomayor, the first Hispanic-American to serve on the Supreme Court, was one of the honored guests. The justice ''had my pasteles and she said they were like her mother's,'' Ms. Presilla said with obvious delight during an interview at Zafra over a lunch of roast pork sandwich, rice and beans and sweet plantains.
Ultramarinos, which is dominated by an ornate white marble countertop piled high with display cases, was intended to be something far more pedestrian -- storage space. But renting out the spot, a former Italian bakery, to serve as just a stockroom seemed uninspired, so Ms. Presilla and Clara Chaumont, her longtime business partner, turned it into a showcase for Latin American flavors.
''We wanted to offer a little bit of everything,'' Ms. Chaumont said. Indeed, Ultramarinos, besides selling prepared foods, manages to squeeze together a bakery, a chocolate section that features Ms. Presilla's line of truffles and a marketplace for a variety of goods, from chorizos and cheeses to utensils and cookware. There is even space for a few stools.
Because of the dismal economy, Ms. Presilla and Ms. Chaumont decided not to hire a designer for Ultramarinos, so they did much of the work themselves. They designed the furniture, decorated and supervised the work, and relied on friends to get the shop ready for its opening in February.
''It was exactly like going back to square one and doing everything on our own,'' said Ms. Presilla (who is reluctant to divulge her age except to say that she is in her 50s). ''That's just the reality of the way things are in the industry.'' Even though Ultramarinos is removed from Hoboken's busier foot-traffic corridors, she is confident that the market will thrive. ''I don't think of what I'm doing as a temporary thing,'' Ms. Presilla said. ''This is a way of life.''
It is a way of life that has its roots in Santiago, a seaside city in southeastern Cuba where her parents were both university professors -- her mother taught Spanish literature, and her father was an art professor whose paintings are prominently displayed at Zafra.
The kitchen became a central part of life for Ms. Presilla, who recalls big family meals with an emphasis on freshness. ''If you were going to have duck, you kill it,'' she said. ''If you were going to have chicken, you kill it.''
After Fidel Castro rose to power, her parents requested permission to leave the country, Ms. Presilla said, which cost them their jobs and plunged the family, like so many others, into a struggle for economic survival. Ms. Presilla was assigned to a government brigade that worked in a sugar cane field.
Her resilient spirit is apparent when she describes that time. ''When other people complained that this was the gulag, I was like, 'Well, this is what we're doing. This is an experience,' '' she said.
Eventually, she and the rest of her family were able to leave Cuba and made their way to Florida, where she married a man she had known since Cuba -- Dr. Alejandro Presilla, a cardiologist whose practice in Union City is the reason why the Presillas ended up in New Jersey. They live in a rambling five-bedroom home in neighboring Weehawken.
Ms. Presilla is also a scholar -- she earned a doctorate in medieval history from New York University and taught at Rutgers University before devoting herself full time to the restaurant business. She is the author of five books about food, and her sixth, a compendium of Latin American recipes, is expected out next year.
''In the food world, there are people who know things and people who can do things,'' said Mitchell Davis, vice president of the James Beard Foundation. ''She is a neat combination of both.''
Ms. Presilla regularly travels to Central and South America, picking the brains of chefs and home cooks, seeking inspiration for a dish to unveil at her restaurants.
''In a way, you go searching for the places you've left behind,'' she said. ''The only way I could keep Cuba alive is through cooking. It's what led me to this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAR-FLUNG GOODS: Maricel Presilla at Ultramarinos, left, which specializes in Latin American foods. Behind her are South American chocolate products. Dolls from Peru are above left. Customers have a choice of eating in or taking out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); PREPARED FOODS (77%); SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); CHEESE (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



854 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: It's Morning In India

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
New Delhi
This week's award for not knowing what world you're living in surely goes to the French high school and college students who blockaded their campuses, and snarled rail traffic, in a nationwide strike against the French government's decision to raise its pension retirement age from 60 to 62. If those students understood the hypercompetitive and economically integrated world they were living in today, they would have taken to the streets to demand smaller classes, better teaching, more opportunities for entrepreneurship and more foreign private investment in France -- so they could have the sorts of good private sector jobs that would enable them to finance retirement at age 62. France already discovered that a 35-hour workweek was impossible in a world where Indian engineers were trying to work a 35-hour day -- and so, too, are pension levels not sustained by a vibrant private sector.
What is most striking to me being in India this week, though, is how many Indians, young and old, expressed their concerns that America also seems at times to be running away from the world it invented and that India is adopting. 
With President Obama scheduled to come here next week, at a time when more than a few U.S. politicians are loudly denouncing immigration reforms, free trade expansion and outsourcing, more than a few Indian business leaders want to ask the president: ''What's up with that?'' Didn't America export to the world all the technologies and free market dogmas that created this increasingly flat, global economic playing field -- and now you're turning against them?
''It is the Silicon Valley revolution which enabled the massive rise in tradable services and the U.S.-built telecommunication networks that allowed creation of the virtual office,'' Nayan Chanda, the editor of YaleGlobal Online, wrote in the Indian magazine Businessworld this week. ''But the U.S. seems sadly unprepared to take advantage of the revolution it has spawned. The country's worn-out infrastructure, failing education system and lack of political consensus have prevented it from riding a new wave to prosperity.'' Ouch.
Saurabh Srivastava, co-founder of the National Association of Software and Service Companies in India, explained that for the first 40 years of Indian independence, entrepreneurs here were looked down upon. India had lost confidence in its ability to compete, so it opted for protectionism. But when the '90s rolled around, and India's government was almost bankrupt, India's technology industry was able to get the government to open up the economy, in part by citing the example of America and Silicon Valley. India has flourished ever since.
''America,'' said Srivastava, ''was the one who said to us: 'You have to go for meritocracy. You don't have to produce everything yourselves. Go for free trade and open markets.' This has been the American national anthem, and we pushed our government to tune in to it. And just when they're beginning to learn how to hum it, you're changing the anthem. ... Our industry was the one pushing our government to open our markets for American imports, 100 percent foreign ownership of companies and tough copyright laws when it wasn't fashionable.''
If America turns away from these values, he added, the socialist/protectionists among India's bureaucrats will use it to slow down any further opening of the Indian markets to U.S. exporters.
It looks, said Srivastava, as if ''what is happening in America is a loss of self-confidence. We don't want America to lose self-confidence. Who else is there to take over America's moral leadership? American's leadership was never because you had more arms. It was because of ideas, imagination, and meritocracy.'' If America turns away from its core values, he added, ''there is nobody else to take that leadership. Do we want China as the world's moral leader? No. We desperately want America to succeed.''
This isn't just so American values triumph. With a rising China on one side and a crumbling Pakistan on the other, India's newfound friendship with America has taken on strategic importance. ''It is very worrying to live in a world that no longer has the balance of power we've had for 60 years,'' said Shekhar Gupta, editor of The Indian Express newspaper. ''That is why everyone is concerned about America.''
India and America are both democracies, a top Indian official explained to me, but emotionally they are now ships passing in the night. Because today the poorest Indian maid believes that if she can just save a few dollars to get her kid English lessons, that kid will have a better life than she does. So she is an optimist. ''But the guy in Kansas,'' he added, ''who today is enjoying a better life than that maid, is worried that he can't pass it on to his kids. So he's a pessimist.''
Yes, when America lapses into a bad mood, everyone notices. After asking for an explanation of the Tea Party's politics, Gupta remarked: ''We have moved away from a politics of grievance to a politics of aspiration. Where is the American dream? Where is the optimism?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); STRIKES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); OUTSOURCING (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



855 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; NO. 1 OREGON 53, NO. 24 U.S.C. 32; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Oregon's Late Surge Jolts U.S.C. Back to Reality

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- For a good portion of Southern California's game Saturday night against No. 1 Oregon, fans of the No. 24 Trojans were able to turn back the clock.
They ignored the swaths of empty seats at the Los Angeles Coliseum, the listless pregame atmosphere and a sideline missing yesteryear mainstays like Snoop Dogg and Henry Winkler. For nearly three quarters, U.S.C. spent its homecoming acting as if it were in the Pete Carroll glory days, trading scores with the top-ranked Ducks and hearing its crowd roar for third-down stops.
But with a dominating late stretch, top-ranked Oregon fast-forwarded the Trojans away from their trip down memory lane by scoring the last 24 points and pulling away for a 53-32 win. 
Oregon showed that Lane Kiffin's U.S.C. program could dress up as an elite team for only so long, executing two punishing third-quarter touchdown drives to demoralize the crowd.
The star tailback LaMichael James ran for 239 yards and 3 touchdowns, and Darron Thomas threw for 288 yards and 4 touchdowns, three to Jeff Maehl, as Oregon (8-0, 5-0 Pacific-10) solidified its top ranking in the Associated Press poll.
Oregon Coach Chip Kelly refused to wax poetic about the victory or even James's bruising performance.
''He'll sleep on the plane,'' he said after James, his Heisman Trophy candidate, carried the ball 36 times. ''We're good.''
It's tough to say the same for U.S.C. (5-3, 2-3). These days, the Trojans travel to road games with 56 scholarship players, when 70 are allowed. The Trojans have not had a capacity crowd at the Coliseum since 2008, and they are trying to entice fans with discount ticket packages for glamour opponents like Oregon and Notre Dame. The future looks bleak, too, with a 2-year bowl ban and 30 scholarship losses looming.
Oregon eventually exposed U.S.C.'s lack of depth on a defense that entered the game ranked 87th in the country. And in a season of scoring histrionics for the Ducks, perhaps no statistics epitomize the strength of this team better than its second-half dominance. Oregon has outscored teams by 180-38 after halftime and by 73-7 in the fourth quarter.
''Our guys are playing hard; they don't show signs of playing tired,'' Kelly said. ''I know they're not out there whistling and skipping around; they're working their tails off. They have a mind-set that the guy they're playing against is a little more tired than they are.''
Some in the Southeast may snicker at Oregon's defense, but the Ducks are starting to show that it does not matter if they give up 30-plus points if they keep scoring more than 50.
Any chance of a Trojans comeback ended when Matt Barkley, who finished 26 of 49 for 263 yards, threw an interception to safety John Boyett in the end zone with 5 minutes 25 seconds left in the game and the Ducks leading by 14.
Boyett jumped in front of a pass intended for the freshman star Robert Woods, sending fans to the exits and making the Coliseum a depressing place.
Oregon's dominant second-half numbers can be credited to the focus of the program, which is built to play at such a frenetic tempo that opponents roll over in the second half. James showed just that as he scampered up the middle for 45 yards three plays after Boyett's interception. He capped that drive with an 8-yard touchdown run, giving Oregon its exclamation point.
''We're going to play as fast as we can,'' James said. ''And today we sped up the tempo even more. You can always get faster.''
But the first hints of U.S.C.'s defensive weaknesses came much earlier. Oregon wore down the Trojans in the first half with lightning scoring drives of two plays, one play and two plays. Oregon then finished off the Trojans with back-to-back punishing touchdown drives of 12 plays and 11 plays late in the third quarter.
During the second of those drives, U.S.C.'s fatigue became obvious as the Trojans' defensive linemen were standing with their hands on their hips, a universal sign of exhaustion. And it meant that Oregon had the Trojans precisely where it wanted them.
When asked why U.S.C. could not keep up with Oregon's tempo, cornerback Cliff Harris laughed and said: ''It's like saying, 'O.K., today I'm going to go run 15 miles.' You have to work up to it. You can't just hop out there and do stuff like that.
The thing that stood out most about the Coliseum was the absence of buzz. The tailgating revelry, sideline star-gazing and general feel of witnessing an event has long left Troy. Even the country's No. 1 team and the allure of homecoming could not produce a sellout.
U.S.C. drew an announced crowd of 88,726, but the empty sections hinted at the inflation of that number.
In a town easily distracted by the next premiere or hot new star, U.S.C. has become yesterday's news. Missing are the feel-good vibes of an ''Entourage'' episode, the way it was during the Carroll-Matt Leinart- Reggie Bush heyday of the mid-2000s.
In the hours before the game, the streets around the stadium appeared to be the only places in Los Angeles without traffic congestion. When ESPN's ''GameDay,'' the sign of a big game, came to U.S.C., the set had to be shot extra tight because of the lack of students and fans in the backdrop.
''This is an audience that's been pretty spoiled,'' said Pac-10 Commissioner Larry Scott, who said he was pleased with the turnout.
The spoiled fans on Saturday night were the hearty Oregon faithful, tucked in a corner of the Coliseum cheering as their Ducks sealed the blowout by preventing a garbage-time touchdown.
The buzz and sizzle in the Pac-10 has moved up to Eugene, Ore. And with a dominating performance, Oregon showed why it controls its path to the national title.
Just the way U.S.C. used to do not so long ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oregon quarterback Darron Thomas in the first half after a touchdown pass, one of his four against U.S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



856 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 HONDA ODYSSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Honda's Latest Weapon In the Battle of the Vans

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
THE conventional wisdom is that the minivan is on life support, a victim of drive-by shootings by marauding gangs of part-truck, part-car crossover wagons. But some automakers just won't pull the plug.
While General Motors and Ford abandoned the sliding-door minivan in recent years, Toyota has doubled down with a new version of its Sienna that went on sale in February. Chrysler, which created the modern minivan, is bringing out redesigned Chrysler Town & Country and Dodge Grand Caravan minivans around Christmas. Kia has freshened its Sedona with a smaller but more powerful and efficient engine. Nissan has temporarily dropped its Quest while it prepares to introduce a new version early next year.
Among mass-market minivan makers that leaves Honda, which has redesigned its Odyssey -- America's favorite minivan the last two years -- for 2011. While the van shows improvements in features, room and fuel economy, its driving dynamics, which had previously made it the sportiest-feeling minivan, seem to have suffered. 
This fourth-generation Odyssey, which went on sale Sept. 30, replaces a version that made its debut as a 2005 model. The new van is the first one developed by a team of Honda engineers in the United States -- based in Ohio -- and is built at the same Alabama plant where the previous model was made.
The new model is slightly longer, lower and wider. It not only looks more jaunty, with a body-side character line extending forward from the boldly shaped rear side window, its slicker aerodynamics aid fuel economy.
All 2011 Odysseys come with a 3.5-liter V-6 engine rated at 248 horsepower. This is an improved version of the previous engine, with 4 more horsepower and 5 pound-feet of torque. The V-6 can still run on only 3 or 4 of its 6 cylinders when full power isn't needed.
The new Odyssey comes in seven trim levels with prices ranging from $28,580 to $44,030.
Two transmissions are available, including Honda's first 6-speed automatic, which comes only on the Touring ($41,535) or a new top-line version called the Touring Elite ($44,030). Other trim levels get the 5-speed: the basic LX, the EX and three variations of the EX-L -- the ''L'' stands for leather.
The Odyssey's chief engineer, Art St. Cyr, said the 6-speed wasn't offered across the board because Honda wanted to hold down the price of the LX while imparting a ''more premium'' driving feel to Touring models with a smoother, quicker transmission.
A comparison shopper might note, however, that while Honda puts the admission price for a 6-speed above $40,000, all Toyota Siennas have 6-speeds, for as little as $26,510.
Odysseys with the 5-speed get better mileage than before (2 m.p.g. more in town, 4 more on the highway). And 6-speed models beat the comparable Sienna by 1 m.p.g. in town and 4 m.p.g. on the highway. Low-rolling-resistance tires account for some of the gain.
I briefly drove an EX with the 5-speed transmission -- which worked just fine -- and spent a week with a preproduction example of the 6-speed Touring Elite. This fanciest of Odysseys has everything: leather, sunroof, rear-seat entertainment system with a 16-inch-wide split screen, navigation system, 18-inch wheels, parking sensors, premium audio system and blind-spot sensors.
Safety features on all Odysseys include antilock brakes, electronic stability control, active head restraints and six air bags, including curtain bags in all three rows to protect occupants' heads in side impact crashes. The Sienna goes the Odyssey one better with a driver's knee air bag.
Mr. St. Cyr said the engineers tried to make features simpler and more intuitive -- by, for instance, moving handles on the second-row seats. The third row, which seats three and is split 60-40, folds cleanly into the floor with one tug of a strap.
The new interior has some nice features for on-the-move families. A ''cool box'' below the gearshift can chill six 12-ounce cans or four 20-ounce bottles. A new center console between the driver and passenger seats is large enough to hold a purse, and it can be removed to create a walk-through to the second row.
The base LX seats seven with two captain's chairs in the second row; other versions seat eight with a center seat position that is 3.9 inches wider than before. Folded down, the seatback can be used as an armrest, cupholder and tray. You can slide that center seat forward or backward 5.5 inches to bring an infant closer to parents in the front row. And while that's a nice touch, the Sienna's second-row seats can move 23 inches.
The second row has ''wide mode'' seating that allows each of the two outer seats to move laterally 1.5 inches each. Doing this creates a bit more room if three people or child seats are in the second row.
I had looked forward to driving the new Odyssey. The last generation of the van was a joy on the road -- at least by minivan standards -- with steering that had enough weight to establish a connection to the pavement and impart a sense of confidence on turns. Its downside was a ride that some critics (myself included) considered a little stiff.
With the 2011 Odyssey, my main problem was the steering feel at speeds below 45 m.p.h. At these lower speeds I found the steering so light that it lacked a feeling of connection with the road.
The overassisted steering was not simply in my imagination -- it was designed that way. Mr. St. Cyr said Honda wanted the van to have generally lighter steering feel. Customers had complained, he said, that the previous model's steering was too heavy, causing arm fatigue on long drives. I would have preferred keeping the old steering and advising the whiners to do a few bicep curls.
In back-to-back drives with the new Toyota Sienna, the Odyssey felt more nimble and quicker to change direction. But that driving pleasure is undermined by the light steering feel.
When I reviewed the new Sienna for these pages in June, I said the steering was light and vague. That is still the case, but the new Odyssey's steering is even more disappointing.
I also found the Sienna to ride more comfortably. You feel road imperfections more in the Odyssey, along with more vibration and harshness. The Odyssey seemed a bit more noisy.
Americans liked the old Odyssey; it was the best-selling minivan in 2008-9, according to J. D. Power & Associates (although the Chrysler Town & Country is the sales leader so far this year).
Honda hopes to sell more than 110,000 of the new models each year. That may be a challenge. For all its other virtues Honda has jeopardized the Odyssey's distinctive advantage as the ''sporty minivan'' just as the Sienna has become more competitive and other new vans are warming up.
INSIDE TRACK: In Chapter IV, a lighter touch.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAGIC BUS: Honda has redesigned the Odyssey with stand-apart styling, new features and better fuel economy.
Dodge Grand Caravan
Kia Sedona
Toyota Sienna (AU1)
 BIG SHIFT: High-end versions of the Odyssey have Honda's first 6-speed automatic transmission. (AU5) CHARTS: Four Ways to Take All of the Family on the Road (AU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (90%); GANGS (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (56%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010



857 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MILITARY MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Army Studies Thrill-Seeking in Its Ranks

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senior Airman Michael Kearns had been back from Iraq for only two months when he was pulled over on a Florida highway for going more than 120 miles per hour on his new Suzuki. He knew his motorcycle riding was reckless, but after living through daily mortar attacks on his base in Iraq, he said he needed the adrenaline rush.
''When you get here, there's nothing that's very exciting that keeps your pulse going,'' Airman Kearns, 27, said in a recent interview. 
His experience is so common that the United States military, alarmed by a rising suicide rate and the record number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who die in highway accidents back home, is asking a provocative new question: Nearly a decade into two bloody wars, are the armed forces attracting recruits drawn to high-risk behavior?
''In January 1990, you could join the military and think, 'You know, I'm probably not going to get deployed,' '' said Peter D. Feaver, a Duke University professor who has done research on the gap between the military and civilian society. ''So on the margins it is reasonable to expect that there might have been a few more people in the pre-9/11 period who said, 'I have no interest in war and there are other reasons for me to join.'
''By 2005, there were very few, or nobody, like that,'' he said. ''Or if you were like that, you were a fool. The evidence was staring you in the face that you would be deployed in ground combat.''
The military says the people who enlist to serve their country have always included plenty of adrenaline addicts, which recruiters say is a good thing when troops are needed to jump out of airplanes and go on raids in Afghanistan. But military researchers say they have been compelled to take a deeper look at the psychological demographic of an all-volunteer force during the most prolonged period of combat in American history.
''We've never been at war for as long as we've been, and we don't know the effects of that,'' said Bruce Shahbaz, a retired Army lieutenant colonel and one of the three main authors of a recent Army suicide report. ''We may be attracting people who are more comfortable with risk, and if so, how do we measure that?''
Beyond that, Colonel Shahbaz said, the Army wants to know whether risk-takers are more likely to commit suicide or die in accidents, and whether a predisposition to risk-taking is increased by combat.
To try to find answers, this fall the Army and the National Institute of Mental Health are beginning a five-year study of 90,000 active-duty soldiers and all new Army recruits, 80,000 to 120,000 per year. The recruits are to answer confidential surveys that Colonel Shahbaz said might include questions on whether they owned motorcycles, used drugs or liked to bungee-jump. There will be cognitive tests to measure reactions to stress as well as an in-depth look at a recruit's family background and genetics.
''It will give us an assessment of someone's cognitive style and whether they have a history that draws them to high-risk behaviors,'' said Thomas R. Insel, the institute's director.
Researchers acknowledge that in focusing so much on recruits, they are slighting what many say is the biggest reason for the high military suicide rate, the stress of repeated wartime deployments. But in one of the more surprising statistics cited in the Army's suicide report, 79 percent of the soldiers who committed suicide in recent years had had only one deployment, or had not deployed at all.
''For us to blame this thing just on the war would be wrong,'' Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, the vice chief of staff of the Army, said at a July news conference about the report.
The report concluded that much of the fault was with commanders who disregarded the mental health problems of their troops, but it also blamed the Army for not winnowing out enough of the recruits with records of substance abuse and crime. From roughly 2005 to 2007, when a strong economy sent potential soldiers looking elsewhere for jobs with better pay, the Army lowered its recruiting and retention standards to meet the demands of two wars. As a result, the report said, tens of thousands of recruits were granted waivers for the kind of behavior, including felonies, that would have kept them out of the service in earlier years.
There were a record 160 active-duty Army suicides in the year from Oct. 1, 2008, to Sept. 30, 2009, and the report said that if accidental deaths were included, ''less young men and women die in combat than die by their own actions.''
Whatever the survey finds, the military says it has to do a better job of managing the risk-takers of any kind within its ranks. ''A soldier who dies bungee-jumping on a weekend because he needs that adrenaline rush is no less painful to the Army than a soldier who commits suicide,'' Colonel Shahbaz said. ''If we could figure out three or four of those behaviors that affect a large number of people and say, 'O.K., a lot of guys are doing this, how can we teach them to do that in a way that is more safe and more responsible?' ''
Some programs are already in place for young men and women who return from war feeling invincible. The military requires riding classes for service members who buy motorcycles, a popular way to spend deployment cash. The Marines hold sport-bike racing events to try to cut down on speeding on the roads. And the Air Force has a new safety program in which young airmen who have been in accidents talk to their peers about their close calls.
One of them is Airman Kearns, the Iraq veteran who was stopped speeding on his motorcycle. This year, working out of Patrick Air Force Base in Florida, he has spoken to at least 300 young members of the Air Force to tell them, ''There are other ways to get your adrenaline.''
Before he joined the military, Airman Kearns liked extreme sports, including motorcycle racing and bungee-jumping. He enlisted, he said, to serve his country. But, as he also acknowledged, ''I might have been attracted to the risk of it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SUICIDE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (69%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



858 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: The Old World

 BODY:
Ted Fishman's article paints an unnecessarily bleak picture of the future of aging around the world, concluding that ''global power rests on how willing a country is to neglect its older citizens.'' 
Longer life is a triumph to be celebrated, not feared. Many older adults want to work and contribute, but policies and ageism deny them that opportunity. And for those who are frail or dependent because of the limitations that can accompany age, we have a moral obligation to ensure they are provided support and care. The solution begins with a more realistic view of aging -- old people are neither all greedy geezers nor all dependent and frail. Across-the-board benefit cuts or lifting of retirement ages deny the important differences of age and penalize those who cannot work while ignoring the millions who wish to remain productively engaged. Inviting older adults back into the work force through incentives rather than penalties is not only the right thing to do; it also makes good economic sense.
SHARON B. KING Director, Aging Program, The Atlantic Philanthropies New York
The crucial challenge facing our aging nation is ensuring that our health care system is ready and equipped to take care of therising numbers of aging people. No doubt with larger numbers of older people, there will be larger numbers of sick people; this means that the hospitals need to have available beds to receive the increasing numbers. As a student nurse on my first medical-surgical rotation, I was shocked to see the numbers of people under the age of 50 taking up the beds and attention of the nurses and doctors. As our nation ages, we must re-evaluate our health care system and reflect on changes that need to be made. As fewer numbers are becoming primary-care physicians, a great deal of attention needs to be spent on how that gap will be filled with nurse practitioners and physician's assistants. And most important, we must focus on keeping our youth healthy.
LEORA SPERBER Woodmere, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); LABOR FORCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



859 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Final Days of an Unlikely Run for Senate

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
AIKEN, S.C. -- Alvin Greene asked the ticket seller at the Western Carolina State Fair here if political candidates could get in free. No. Military veterans? No. People wearing green T-shirts (his said ''Greene Senate'')? Nothing worked. Reluctantly, Mr. Greene forked over the $6 entry fee.
But once on the fairgrounds, his face lighted up. He rode the Ferris wheel and drank lemonade. He threw darts at balloons. He won a prize after a carnival barker wrongly guessed his weight at 264 pounds -- four pounds too high. 
For three hours, Mr. Greene, 33, did just about everything at the fair except attend to the task at hand. As South Carolina's unlikely Democratic nominee for the Senate, he was supposed to introduce himself, shake hands and ask for votes. It was, after all, just days before the election, and he had scheduled so few outings.
Instead, he brushed by most fairgoers, making little eye contact and little attempt to engage them. He did tell a few of them, in passing, that Senator Jim DeMint, his Republican opponent, had caused the recession. He told some to vote early to avoid the lines. Most were nonplussed.
Only a handful of people approached him, and only one in this heavily Republican region -- Brittany Hammonds, 21, a single mother from Aiken -- told a reporter she would vote for Mr. Greene, explaining that ''this recession is so hard.''
But Mr. Greene did not talk to her. He was blowing on a plastic trumpet he had won, immersed in the kaleidoscopic whirl.
And why not? He is an unemployed veteran who lives with his ailing father in Manning. He was catapulted from obscurity to the national stage in June when he unexpectedly won the Democratic primary over a former state representative who, unlike Mr. Greene, had actually campaigned.
State investigators later concluded that Mr. Greene had done nothing wrong in getting on the ballot or in winning, although he was indicted in August on obscenity charges from last November that have yet to be resolved. He is free on $5,000 bail.
So the race has come down to this: Mr. Greene versus Mr. DeMint, who has been the odds-on favorite for so long that no high-profile Democrat wanted to challenge him. He is so flush with cash (millions) that he is giving it away in other states. Mr. Greene has raised so little that he did not meet the $5,000 minimum that would have required him to file a financial report. Tom Clements of the Green Party has raised $45,000.
Mr. Greene did make one big investment in the race, plunking down $10,400 in March to get his name on the primary ballot.
Asked last week if he regretted spending his savings that way, Mr. Greene said no.
''I am living my dream,'' he said, gazing at the twirling neon rides from beneath the brim of his green Atlanta Braves cap. The lesson of his candidacy, he said, is that ''even if you are from rural South Carolina, you can be internationally famous.''
At his side was Krystel Reid, 25, a graduate student who is a political consultant; she is working as Mr. Greene's campaign manager but is not charging him. She said she wanted to protect Mr. Greene and try to keep the news media and Republicans from mocking him. She and the manager of his Web site appear to make up most of his staff.
Democratic officials have called for Mr. Greene to abandon the race, and they, in fact, have abandoned him.
This was brought home to Mr. Greene at the fair when he saw that a busy booth for the Aiken County Republican Party was festooned with posters for Mr. DeMint and other candidates. Nearby, a booth with a sign for the county's Democratic Party was empty. It had no other signs, or any brochures or visitors.
''Do you believe this?'' Mr. Greene asked in both astonishment and delight, as if he had simultaneously discovered a crime and solved it. ''This is a dereliction of duty!'' He had no brochures of his own to hand out, but this did not stop him from castigating the party or from returning to the subject repeatedly.
Ms. Reid, who is also working for other Democratic candidates, winced. She suggested gently that perhaps the staff had temporarily stepped away. But when Mr. Greene circled back an hour later, the booth was still deserted.
''This is why they are going to lose,'' Mr. Greene declared. ''It's going to be bad news for the Democrats.''
Eventually even Ms. Reid gave up trying to change the subject.
Mr. Greene said he planned to watch the election returns on Tuesday at the Matrix Center, a banquet hall near his home. It is big enough to accommodate the members of the news media who will be focused on him, perhaps for the last time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alvin Greene with Mary Poole at a fair in Aiken, where the Democrats' booth was empty. ''This is a dereliction of duty!'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE MCQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); VETERANS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); OBSCENITY (62%); INDICTMENTS (61%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



860 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE MUSEUM OF INNOCENCE, by Orhan Pamuk. Translated by Maureen Freely (Vintage International, $15.95.) A privileged Istanbul resident becomes ''the anthropologist of my own experience'' to describe his lifelong obsession with a shopgirl, his distant cousin. He begins to collect mementos of their affair -- a hair clip, a cup, cigarette butts -- and a character named Orhan Pamuk plays a significant role in the story. Questions of class and of East and West, raised by the narrator's position as a wealthy Turk, make this, as Pamuk writes, ''not simply a story of lovers, but of the entire realm, that is, of Istanbul.''
THE EDUCATION OF A BRITISH-PROTECTED CHILD: Essays, by Chinua Achebe (Anchor, $14.95.) In this collection of autobiographical writings, Achebe, author of the classic 1958 novel ''Things Fall Apart,'' revisits the themes that have defined his career: colonialism, identity, family, the uses and abuses of language. He discusses his concern with individuals rather than ideology and his inclination to seek what he calls the ''middle ground.'' 
THE RAGS OF TIME, by Maureen Howard (Penguin, $15.) The last in a quartet of novels based on the seasons, this book is ''part meditation, part postscript, part appendix,'' our reviewer, Jess Row, said. Much of the novel is taken up with a ''Daybook,'' set in 2007, by a nearly 80-year-old woman who lives on Central Park West. It is ''a time capsule of manners, fascinations, prejudices . . . a kind of last gasp of the Upper West Side intelligentsia,'' Row observed.
THE FAITH INSTINCT: How Religion Evolved and Why It Endures, by Nicholas Wade (Penguin, $16.) Wade, a New York Times science writer, believes that religion is imprinted on the human genome, and that natural selection can operate on groups; we became social creatures because we became religious. Wade surveys the history of religions, noting how our innate piety has adapted to changing needs.
A FIERY PEACE IN A COLD WAR: Bernard Schriever and the Ultimate Weapon, by Neil Sheehan. (Vintage, $16.95.) Schriever, an Air Force general who realized that the Soviets planned to rest their future defense on intercontinental ballistic missiles, did battle with Gen. Curtis LeMay, a fierce advocate of bombers, and managed to convince President Eisenhower that the United States needed to shift its strategy. This ''deeply researched, compulsively readable and important book,'' as Michael Beschloss called it in the Book Review, sheds light on crucial but undramatic turning points in the cold war. THE HAWK AND THE DOVE: Paul Nitze, George Kennan, and the History of the Cold War, by Nicholas Thompson. (Picador, $17.) Kennan, the architect of containment, believed that Communist expansion should be resisted by economic and political means; Nitze argued for a buildup of American military power. This dual biography by Thompson, who is Nitze's grandson, probes their long, intertwined careers as statesmen, policy makers and public intellectuals.
WOMAN FROM SHANGHAI: Tales of Survival From a Chinese Labor Camp, by Xianhui Yang. Translated by Wen Huang. (Anchor, $16.) In the late 1950s, thousands of Chinese were branded as rightists and sent to a ''re-education'' camp in the northwestern desert; all but 500 died, most of starvation. These grim but moving stories of that experience, which the publisher calls ''fact-based fiction,'' were collected a decade ago. CHINA SAFARI: On the Trail of Beijing's Expansion in Africa, by Serge Michel and Michel Beuret. Translated by Raymond Valley. (Nation Books, $17.50.) This provocative work of reporting by two French journalists, which includes a 16-page insert of color photographs by Paolo Woods, examines Chinese business interests in Africa (bilateral trade between the regions is expected to reach $100 billion this year). The authors contend that China's ambitions there are geopolitical as well as economic.
MEMOIR: A History, by Ben Yagoda (Riverhead, $16.) Yagoda's tour of the current memoir craze follows a historical approach, tracing the genre's development over time -- starting with Caesar's account of the Gallic Wars. A memoir, Yagoda says, is a ''book understood by its author, its publisher and its readers to be a factual account of the author's life,'' but he shows that the greatest memoirists are not always the most scrupulous.
THE LAST RESORT: A Memoir of Mischief and Mayhem on a Family Farm in Africa, by Douglas Rogers (Three Rivers, $14.) The backpackers' hotel the author's parents built in the eastern highlands of Zimbabwe becomes a microcosm of a collapsed country, racked by economic implosion and farm seizures. ''This vibrant, tragic and surprisingly funny book'' by Rogers, a white expatriate, is ''the best account yet of ordinary life -- for blacks and whites -- under Mugabe's dictatorship,'' our reviewer, Joshua Hammer, said.
BIGFOOT: The Life and Times of a Legend, by Joshua Blu Buhs (University of Chicago, $18.) The 1960s and '70s were the heyday of reports of sightings of a giant ape or its tracks in the Pacific Northwest. Buhs locates Bigfoot's ancestry in traditional stories, American and otherwise, but his main interest is in the white working-class men who were the beast's advocates, hoaxers and most ardent consumers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); RELIGION (88%); COLD WAR (84%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); MEDITATION (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); BOMBINGS (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); EVOLUTION THEORY (63%); AIR FORCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%) TURKEY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



861 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 7967 words

HEADLINE: The Playboy And His Power Games

BYLINE: By CHIP BROWN. 
Chip Brown is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent article was about the soprano Danielle de Niese.

 BODY:
The Prokhorov Effect ''Pretend you are putting a gun against my back,'' said the Russian billionaire. We were standing in a small training room on the third floor of his house outside Moscow. Suddenly he pivoted, and any ideas I had of sprinting off with his wallet went poof. His loaded foot was poised to crush my knee. You had to wonder, Did he really need the full security detail that followed his chauffeured Mercedes around Moscow in a Land Rover?
The key was that your body had to be relaxed, he said. Not rigid. Not tense.
''You have to be soft.'' 
''You could have broken my leg.''
''Yes,'' he said, ''but in a very soft manner.''
YOU MIGHT THINK that Mikhail Prokhorov would have had a not-so-soft case of buyer's remorse this past spring. Last year, a month before the start of the National Basketball Association season, the 45-year-old Russian billionaire struck a deal to buy the New Jersey Nets from the real estate developer Bruce C. Ratner, who had owned the team since 2004. The price was $200 million for 80 percent of the franchise and 45 percent of the long-delayed Barclays Center arena in Brooklyn, where the Nets will play beginning in 2012. Prokhorov also agreed to cover some $60 million in operational costs and 80 percent of $207 million in debt. When the league owners finally ratified the sale eight months later, in May of this year, the Nets record stood at 12 wins and 70 losses, and Prokhorov's shiny new team was the laughingstock of the N.B.A.
It was hard to count the low points. Coach Lawrence Frank was fired during the 0-for-18 start. At a snowy night game against the Milwaukee Bucks in February, when the Nets' record stood at 4 and 47, there were nearly 19,000 empty seats in the Izod Center. By midseason, TV ratings had plunged 45 percent and were the lowest in the league. The franchise that once played to big crowds and made back-to-back trips to the N.B.A. finals in 2002 and 2003 had traded away its stars but was still bleeding $15 million a year. Management was downgrading to cheaper hotels; employees were forgoing pay on Friday furloughs. There wasn't a budget for the normal complement of secretaries, scouts, videographers or even, at what would seem just the time the organization could have used one, a sports psychologist.
The season probably hit bottom when the Nets' C.E.O. got into a shouting match with a fan who was wearing a paper bag over his head. Only a few late wins saved the franchise from the all-time N.B.A. record for ineptitude.
All of which might have dampened the spirits of another man making his debut as the first foreign owner in the N.B.A. But Prokhorov couldn't have been happier, and not because he had just been on vacation in the Maldives, where he spent many hours doing back flips on one of his 20 customized freestyle Rickter water skis. To be sure, he wasn't gambling with the grocery money. What he paid for the team was less than what he paid the Russian government in taxes last year. And his stake in the Barclays Center was potentially even more valuable than the 12-and-70 flea circus. It's generally agreed that if you're going to turn around a team, start with one that has been stripped to the bone after a cathartically bad year rather than a middling franchise hamstrung by contracts with so-so players. Much of the $17.8 billion fortune that made Prokhorov the second-richest man in Russia came from unlocking the value of assets vastly more distressed than the Mess in the Meadowlands. In his view, the laughingstocks had nowhere to go but up.
''Management skills can make a real difference,'' he told me one afternoon last August in his Moscow office not far from Pushkin Square. ''We'll see how mine work out in five years.''
For Nets fans, the arrival of a 6-foot-8-inch bachelor billionaire, last seen on ''60 Minutes'' bantering with models in a Moscow disco and brandishing a Kalashnikov at home, seemed too good to be true. Prokhorov had invited anyone who couldn't manage the rasp in the middle of ''Mikhail'' to call him Mike, but on NetsDaily, the premier Nets fan Web site, he quickly emerged as ''Proky.'' Proky was the sweet sound of salvation. The Web site editor (a 65-year-old New York-based television producer anxious to keep his old- and new-media identities separate) coined a phrase for the euphoria coursing through reader comments: the Prokhorov Effect.
Proky is definitely awesome./Our time has arrived./It's a miracle!/Wow . . . look at how hot his secretary is.
Prokhorov himself seemed a bit stunned by the Prokhorov Effect and his transformative American summer. ''Nobody was interested in me before I bought the Nets,'' he said, depreciating what had been a rather brilliant ability to hide in plain sight, working in the background while his former partner, Vladimir Potanin, worked out front. The revelry began in May, when he flew to New York in his Gulfstream: a Gracie Mansion breakfast with Mayor Bloomberg and the rap star and Nets shareholder Jay-Z; some English Breakfast tea with a Brooklyn blogger at the Clover Club in Carroll Gardens; a tour of Yankee Stadium; a catechism on WFAN with the pontiff of New York radio sports talk, Mike Francesa, during which Prokhorov compared his divorce from Potanin to Francesa's parting of the ways with his former co-host, Chris (Mad Dog) Russo.
In his life pre-Nets, when he gave the occasional interview to business reporters, Prokhorov had the media skills of a cyborg. Knowing what was at stake as the new face of the team -- sponsorships, tickets, public goodwill, a potential business empire in the West -- he worked hard to show more of his personality. He watched Katie Couric's interview with Sarah Palin for lessons in what not to do on camera. He strapped on a surgical mask in a training session that clarified the power of eye contact. The work all coalesced at his laugh-fest of a debut press conference in the Cosmopolitan Suite of the Four Seasons Hotel. ''America, I come in peace,'' he said with the accent of a baddie in a Bond flick. There were awkward moments -- irony and comic timing aren't second nature in a second language -- but Prokhorov came across as charming, shrewd and, for an N.B.A. owner, insanely colorful. ''Mikhail is right up there with the most flamboyant owners the league has ever had,'' says Commissioner David Stern.
Back again in June, he met his newly hired coach, Avery Johnson and sat with him courtside at the TD Garden for the fifth game of the N.B.A. finals. Two weeks later, another trans-Atlantic flight as Prokhorov led the Nets delegation bidding for the free agent forward LeBron James in Akron, Ohio. Meanwhile the marketing department plastered Prokhorov and Jay-Z's picture on a giant billboard across the street from the Knicks' home at Madison Square Garden.
''I am looking at the possibility of buying this building and having it shipped back to Moscow and put up on Red Square,'' Prokhorov said in mid-July during his fourth trip to the U.S. in three months. He toured the Nets' temporary quarters at the Prudential Center in Newark and sat for another round of questions from still-seemingly-stumped Nets beat writers, who stared at the new owner as at a math problem from a class they'd missed. Having air-balled on the year's top free agents, Prokhorov announced the Nets' ''strategy'' had shifted to ''Plan B,'' with Plans C and D already lined up if B bombed. The goal was still to build a championship club within five years. If the Nets didn't win, the bachelor billionaire said the responsibility would be on him, and he would punish himself accordingly -- perhaps by getting married.
''Welcome to My Bachelor Pad'' Although Prokhorov's official residence is a village in the Krasnoyarsk region of Siberia, where he pays upward of $500 million a year in taxes, he lives in Skolkovo, 45 minutes north of Moscow, in a sprawling 21,500-square-foot house he finished building six years ago. One wing is occupied by his older sister and only sibling, Irina, who heads Prokhorov's charitable foundation, edits three literary journals and runs a publishing company that puts out about 90 books a year.
Prokhorov invited a photographer and me to lunch one afternoon last July. Moscow had been in the grip of the hottest weather in 130 years, and the air was seared with the smell of forest fires. We produced our passports for a guard at a well-fortified gate, went up a hill on a winding drive shaded by birch and evergreens and got out under a portico.
Inside, the black marble foyer opened onto a large living room that had the feel of a boutique hotel: dark wood floors, neutral rugs, boxy tan chairs and white-pillow couches, and for a studied touch of whimsy, some gilded cellos encased in plexiglass.
''Welcome to my bachelor pad!'' Prokhorov said, bounding down the staircase. He had just finished his daily two-hour workout and was still dressed in sweat pants and a gray T-shirt. He shepherded us into the dining room. He seemed curiously uninvolved in the decor of his house, passing it off as the handiwork of his decorator. Clothes, furniture, art, books elicited no strong feelings, he said. At a party for Snob, a lavish magazine for Russian cosmopolites that is one of a group of media properties in which he is investing $150 million, he told Masha Gessen, the deputy editor: ''I don't read.'' (''Then I guess we can write whatever we want!'' she replied.)
What he does care about is food. He is old enough to remember the Soviet era of barren shelves, rotten vegetables and his mother waiting in long queues to buy whatever was available. After food come work, sports and women, more or less in that order. That Prokhorov knows what he likes can be illustrated by an epic showdown he once had when he was 8 over some cottage cheese his mother wanted him to eat. It just didn't taste right. He sat for 12 hours in the kitchen with his teeth clamped, then five more the next day. Finally his father said the hell with it. Along the same self-certain lines, it took only a drop for him to know he didn't like vodka; he insists he's never had so much as a glass of the stuff. He employs two cooks, both from the Caucasuses. They remained in the kitchen while the house wait staff brought out communal platters of lamb; couscous; meat-filled dumplings called khinkali; khachapuri or cheese bread; and the exceptionally delicious endangered Armenian trout from Lake Sevan known as ishkhan, which is illegal to fish commercially but can apparently be bought legally in Moscow.
After tea, Prokhorov took us downstairs to his stainless-steel swimming pool and his weight room, and then through his wine cellar stocked with first-growth reds from Bordeaux and grand-cru whites from Burgundy from all the best years in formats no smaller than magnums. The photographer wanted a picture of him cradling a big bottle. ''It's my baby!'' he joked, but the Bordeaux in his arms was not Petrus or Latour; it was a jeroboam of Duhart-Milon, which in his cellar was like finding a Ford Fiesta in a garage of Ferraris.
''What's that doing in here?''
''It was a gift.''
We rode the elevator up two flights to his library, where his Kalashnikov (a gift from Russian special forces in thanks for his financial support) was resting on a windowsill. He brought out a basket of three solid gold eggs nestled in excelsior, each weighing about a pound. Also a gift, for his birthday.
On the top floor above us was another little workout room where he followed a regimen of simple but gallingly difficult exercises. Throw a tennis ball over your head, catch it behind your back without looking. Drop two tennis balls with your wrists crossed, catch them with the cross of your wrists reversed. Jump onto a volleyball and balance.
We went up to the room later, and he ran through the exercises, a blur of darting hands and blind catches. He jumped onto a volleyball and balanced as deftly as a seal in a circus. He had the quickness of a mongoose in the body of a giraffe.
''You can't try too hard,'' he said, handing me a couple of tennis balls. ''You have to relax. It has to be soft.'' The passport in my shirt pocket was soaked in minutes. ''Soft,'' he said as the balls I fumbled pinged and ponged around the room. One of Prokhorov's main sports is kickboxing, and the reason he prefers baggy Brioni suits to more tailored ones is that he doesn't want his business costume to keep him from putting his foot over his head, not that he routinely has cause to. He demonstrated some kickboxing moves that made use of what he'd been rehearsing with the tennis balls.
And then he showed me how softly he could break my leg if I came up behind him with a gun or bolted for the gate with the 60 grand of golden eggs.
The part of the afternoon we didn't devote to disabling journalists and tweaking hand-eye skills we passed in the library paging through leatherbound books of Prokhorov family pictures. His boyhood in Moscow, his scout camp, the pirate outfit on Neptune Day, the sneakers he still remembered buying for 4 rubles 12 kopeks. His parents, Tamara and Dmitry, and their 500-square-foot apartment on Kibalchicha Street on the north side of Moscow. Prokhorov was 23 when his father died of a heart attack at 59; his mother went 11 months later, of heart failure; she was 58. Long after he had the means to provide himself with any sort of house he wished, Prokhorov stayed on in that cramped two-bedroom apartment where he lived with his parents. His sister, Irina, moved back in with her daughter after her divorce.
Now that he had the run of a mansion designed to his specifications, I wondered if there was anything he hadn't thought of. One thing, he said. In the old place he used to get up in the morning and pad into the kitchen to fix some sweetened black tea and slices of kolbasa, the proletarian Soviet sausage. It used to be four steps from the pillow to the kettle. Now it was a new Russian mile from his bedroom on the second floor to the distant kitchen on the first.
Russian Kitchens Prokhorov belongs, according to his sister, to a uniquely fortunate generation: the last educated under the old order and the first to capitalize on the opportunities of the post-Soviet system. ''His generation was very lucky,'' Irina said over supper one September night in Moscow. Nine years older than her brother, she had just enough distance to appreciate the history he and his cohort missed. ''On one hand they received a good education from the Soviet system, and on the other they were generally ignorant of the repression; they never had a chance to become used to it. They were the beneficiaries of the atmosphere of joy and creativity that came with perestroika.''
Prokhorov was born May 3, 1965, with his mother's eyes and dark hair. The height that was apparent in kindergarten when he was a head taller than his classmates came from both sides of the family. The first 10 years the Prokhorovs lived in an apartment known as a khruschoba, a play on the Russian word for ''slum'' and the surname of Premier Nikita Khrushchev. Prokhorov's parents were both professionals. Dmitry grew up in Siberia, one of eight kids. The family were kulaks, relatively wealthy peasant farmers who were persecuted as class enemies under the Bolsheviks and again under Stalin. Dmitry's father lost everything and was forced to flee from one part of Siberia and restart life in another.
''Our grandmother and her eight children lived in huge poverty,'' Irina said. ''My father never told me about the persecution until the late 1970s. He said, 'I didn't want to risk anyone finding out.' Both my parents were terrified to tell a political joke. Mikhail and I were much more liberal-talking on the telephone, and my mother would often say, 'Stop it!' ''
Dmitry made his way to Moscow to study law and eventually became the head of the international department of the Soviet Sports Committee, which gave him the rare privilege of traveling abroad. Even the most humble airport souvenirs were prized as talismans of the West. A schoolmate of Prokhorov's recalled a day when they were in 10th grade and ''Misha,'' as he called him, pulled him under a desk to show him a can of some exotic stuff called iced tea -- what a bizarre idea! ''And then he said, 'You want to try Toblerone?' ''
''Our father was a really brilliant man,'' Irina said. ''I think my brother inherited from him the faculties of memory, imagination and audacity -- all virtues that were useless under the Soviet system. My father was more or less successful, but I remember his bitter remarks when he came back from trips abroad. He could see the difference between the life in the West and how we lived.'' (In the late 1950s, Irina said, Dmitry was invited to join the KGB but declined when Tamara threatened to leave him.) Prokhorov's mother grew up in Moscow and worked as an engineer for a university research group specializing in plastics. Prokhorov's maternal grandmother, Anna Belkina, was a prominent microbiologist who during the war stayed in Moscow to make vaccines while Tamara was moved east to safety. Belkina was Jewish but avoided the fate of many of her colleagues who were fined, exiled or killed during the tide of anti-Semitism that swept through Soviet society after World War II. Though she wrote two doctoral theses, she was denied a chance to defend them and never got a Ph.D. She went to sleep every night with a bag packed, expecting to be arrested before morning.
''We lived with great contradictions,'' Prokhorov said. ''There was the public need to support the regime, and then there was the private life in the kitchen, where we listened to Voice of America on the radio, and read forbidden books and had discussions in a very soft manner about all sorts of things. I learned from both my parents that you had to be clever. They could think in a different way, but they made their views very soft. When you are 12 or 14, it's not easy to feel the limits of what you are allowed to say or do.''
IN 1975 THE FAMILY moved to an apartment in a housing bloc of 14-story buildings on Kibalchicha Street on the north side of Moscow. A couple of days after our lunch, Prokhorov showed me the place, which remains much as it was six years ago when he moved out. The linden tree out front reached nearly to his old balcony now, but the dismal aesthetic of the Soviet era, still legible in the pitted concrete stairs and dimly lighted hallways, was unchanged. Prokhorov had to duck not to conk his head on the concrete rafters.
Inside he began rummaging through closets and drawers. Here was a four-inch nail a strongman friend of the family had bent in half; a boomerang from Australia; a Sharp double tape deck for the whole family that Prokhorov eventually ''privatized.'' A hall shelf was filled with books on physics, finance, and bound leather editions of classic writers like Balzac, Chekhov and Dickens. In his boyhood room were VCR tapes of Rambo (''I love Rambo -- every five or seven years I watch it again'') and hockey photo books and chess manuals. Prokhorov was a gifted chess player, trouncing all the grown-ups on the beach during a family vacation to the Baltic Sea when he was 6, but he gave the game up, preferring hockey and soccer and sports where he could ''feel the pulse of the opponent.'' His bedroom wasn't much bigger than a shoebox, with barely enough space for the extra long bed. His father was in charge of ordering supersize beds for the basketball athletes competing in the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow and added one for his son. When Mikhail was older and wanted a girlfriend to stay over, he had to set up a cot.
We ended up in the kitchen, four steps from the bedroom and barely larger. ''When my parents had parties, there would be 20 people packed in here, standing, sitting, moving, talking all the time. We didn't have a country house or a car. There was nothing to buy. We had parties.''
At 17, Prokhorov entered the prestigious and competitive Finance Academy, which was then known as the Moscow Finance Institute. There he met Alexander Khloponin, who would become his '' best friend'' and who now works for the Russian Federation as a deputy prime minister and presidential envoy to the North Caucasus. After a year Prokhorov took a break from his studies for compulsory service in the Soviet Army. He served two years, often scrounging for wild mushrooms, which made the grim army porridge taste like risotto. Military service for college students was a new policy, and in the view of Mikhail A. Eskindarov, then the dean of the department of international economic relations, a key to the camaraderie and leadership skills of what would become one of the academy's most distinguished classes, the Russian financial equivalent of last summer's free-agent crop in the N.B.A.
''What was that miracle?'' Eskindarov said one day last month in his office at the academy, where he is now the rector. ''I believe army service brought those people together. They were physically strong; they got to be good leaders. They also all became candidates for the Communist Party. We don't remember it now, but being a member of the Communist Party gave us discipline. We believed we were going to build socialism.''
The class was also uniquely positioned to understand how the party's ideology was failing economically. Prokhorov was demobilized in 1985, the year the reforms of perestroika were introduced. To earn money, he worked unloading bags of cement from railroad cars north of Moscow. Cement paid 50 rubles per person per car, more than any other rail freight. When the laws changed, he could deliver the cement as well, earning as much as 400 rubles a day, more than teachers at the Finance Institute earned in a month.
He returned to his education in the fall of 1986; he studied under professors who had worked in foreign banks and understood capital formation, free markets and the increasingly conspicuous inefficiencies of the command economy. In 1988, still in college, he started a business stonewashing blue jeans. The company was called Regina, after the wife of a partner. He would buy jeans for 1 ruble, treat them with a mix of clay and pumice in a laundry on the outskirts of Moscow and then sell the pants to retailers for 15 rubles each. Khloponin was among his first employees. The company eventually grew to more than 300 workers. The profits enabled Prokhorov to buy a car, a humble Lada. ''It was another level of life,'' he said. ''It freed me from the metro. I could invite a girl out and drive her to one of the small private restaurants.''
The Lada was not a big car, however, and Prokhorov was not a small driver. ''My mother and I watched him get into the car from the window,'' Irina recalled. ''It involved a special procedure. We were laughing so hard. I shouted down to him, 'Misha, where are your knees?' He looked like a grasshopper.''
In 1988, his senior year at the Finance Institute, he joined the Communist Party and participated in the Communist Union of Youth (or Komsomol) programs. He was dispatched with other young party members and students to help farmers in rural Russia harvest potatoes. In Astrakhan he was in charge of the student brigade that harvested watermelons. Given he was getting a festive 15 to 1 return on his capital as the owner of a private jeans company, the paradoxes of party membership were not lost on him. I asked him why he joined.
''To resist capitalism!'' he said. ''It's a joke of course.''
But a joke consonant with a certain personal caution, a way of covering bets. His professed love of risk was tempered by an aversion to recklessness. The party in late 1980s was still an inside track. Its auspices gave him the chance to travel a bit -- he took a Komsomol trip to Czechoslovakia -- but the whole edifice was crumbling; unimaginable changes were just around the bend. In 1989, the year he graduated, the Berlin Wall came down. It pains both brother and sister that their parents did not live to see the new Russian revolution. ''My father once told me the worst thing he hated was laziness,'' Prokhorov said. ''He was a passionate worker, but we lived in a very limited society.'' Beside the kitchen door was a little bell that once summoned them all to dinner. A thousand parties had come and gone. Unlike Irina, who finds it hard to visit the old family rooms, Prokhorov said he felt no nostalgia for the past. Still, he looked around the kitchen as if he were searching for something, and then at length said: ''Even before my parents died, I felt all the responsibility to my family. I don't know why. In any business, any relationship, if something goes wrong, I feel I am to blame. It's something inside me.''
The Richest Man in Russia It was as a banker during the tumultuous privatizations of Soviet state industries in the 1990s that Prokhorov began building his fortune. And it was as a metals-and-mining magnate in one of the most hellish places on earth that he made his name a decade later as one of Russia's richest men.
From the Moscow Finance Institute, Prokhorov went to work at the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, or IBEC, based in Moscow and set up to handle the foreign trade accounts of 10 Communist states. He was in charge of international finance at the bank when, in March 1991, his friend Khloponin introduced him to Vladimir Potanin, a former bureaucrat from the Ministry of Foreign Trade who the year before started a private foreign trade company called Interros with about $10,000 raised from Soviet trade organizations eager to make deals. Potanin was four years older than Prokhorov. He had lived abroad, was fluent in English and French and had political connections that would prove invaluable.
As the Soviet Union unraveled in the summer of 1991, state-owned enterprises exporting goods to the West lacked a banking system for credit and currency exchange. With Prokhorov as an equal partner, Potanin created MFK bank in 1992, one of the first private banks in post-Soviet Russia. As the journalist David Hoffman recounts in his book, ''The Oligarchs,'' a number of Eastern-bloc countries were unable to repay loans, and IBEC was in trouble. Letters went out from IBEC's management to clients in Russia suggesting that they shift their deposits to the safe harbor of MFK. ''Potanin appears to have effectively taken the deposits and assets away from the troubled state bank, while leaving behind the debts,'' Hoffman wrote. ''Potanin inherited a $300 million windfall over a six-month period.''
A year later Potanin and Prokhorov opened the United Export Import Bank, or Uneximbank, with Potanin as the president and the public face, and Prokhorov as the chairman of the management board. With inflation running high, it wasn't hard to make money converting rubles to dollars and dollars back to rubles. The bank amassed more than $2 billion in assets by the end of 1994. In 1995 Potanin devised the notorious scheme known as ''loans for shares'' that made him and his partner billionaires. Boris Yeltsin's government was desperate for cash. There was no money for salaries, pensions, health care, military expenditures. Inflation was running at more than 200 percent, elections were looming and the resurgent Communist Party was poised to retake the country. The whole experiment with free markets and democracy seemed to be hanging in the balance. It was Potanin's idea that Russia's major banks make loans to the government (which no one expected it to be able to repay), to be secured with shares in the country's state-run giant oil, metal and telephone companies. And so, the legacy assets of the defunct Soviet state were auctioned off for a fraction of their intrinsic value and transferred to a handful of banks controlled by men who came to be known as ''the oligarchs.''
Uneximbank ran the auction for a 38 percent stake of Norilsk Nickel, the giant mining-and-metallurgical complex in northern Siberia that at the time was booking a profit of around $400 million a year and had $2 billion of debt. The mining company was already a client of the bank. On a technicality Uneximbank rejected a bid for twice as much from a rival bank and awarded the shares to one of its own subsidiaries with an offer barely above the preset reserve of $170 million. The bank's subsidiaries also ''won'' loans-for-shares auctions for a controlling stake in Russia's fifth-largest oil company, Sidanko, shipping companies and other concerns. After two years of nominal control, Uneximbank in August 1997 took the shares it had been holding as collateral for the unrepaid loans and sold them for $270 million to a subsidiary, Swift, thus gaining outright ownership of Russia's largest producer of nonferrous metals.
''It was bad,'' Potanin acknowledged to The New York Times three years later. ''The prices were cheap. . . . But it did solve the problem of having more efficient owners.'' Potanin was the public face of the scheme, with the political connections to make it happen, and he always appears on the now-canonical list of the era's oligarchs, whereas Prokhorov, who worked behind the scenes and professed little interest in politics but benefited just as much, does not. I asked Prokhorov last month how, with 15 years of hindsight, he viewed the program that a 1999 article in this magazine said was ''almost universally [regarded] as an act of colossal criminality.''
''Was it fair or not fair?'' he asked. ''Should you keep the profits or not? I can't really be neutral, of course, but when we bought Norilsk Nickel, and also Sidanko, we met with more than 20 investors public and private. No one wanted to take the risk. People hadn't received their salaries for a half a year. We bid $170 million for the right to manage Norilsk and then we invested $300 million in the company and another $100 million to buy the shares outright.''
Uneximbank's stake in Norilsk Nickel was Prokhorov and Potanin's most valuable asset, and the one they were most determined to protect, when, in August 1998, the entire Russian financial system collapsed. It was the beginning of the end of Prokhorov's banking career. The Russian government decided to default on its sovereign debt, devalue the ruble and suspend payments to foreign creditors by commercial banks. Prokhorov had been looking forward to a week on the Cote d'Azur when he got the news. He went for a 12-mile run hoping to clear his head.
''I spent the whole night trying to create some model of how to save Uneximbank, and the next day I called in all my colleagues and I said, 'There is no way.' Thirty percent of our balance sheet was Russian Federation bonds. Can you imagine what would happen to American banks if the U.S. government stopped paying its treasury obligations? It was a great surprise to me that one of the strongest banks in Russia could crash in one day. In the first month nobody believed that this could happen to Uneximbank. A month later our Russian and Western partners were saying, 'Give us our money back!' For the next three months nobody wanted to speak to us. We set up a restructuring committee and moved all of our business to a bridge bank.''
That in itself was controversial -- what critics call ''asset stripping,'' in which the valuable parts of a company are transferred to a new institution (in this case, Rosbank) and sheltered from creditors. And yet in the long run the shell game enabled Uneximbank to fulfill some of its obligations. Two years later, Uneximbank merged with Rosbank and a settlement was reached that gave the majority of the creditors about 34 cents on the dollar.
By now Prokhorov was looking for a new line of work. His and Potanin's giant stake in Norilsk Nickel still rankled many Russians. A Moscow prosecutor went so far as to file suit to overturn the privatization of the mining combine in 2000. Where Yeltsin had rushed to put the assets of the state in private hands, Vladimir Putin reasserted the primacy of the Kremlin, making it plain the oligarchs would keep their holdings only if they stayed out of politics and aligned their businesses with the interests of the government. One way for Prokhorov to secure his franchise was to enhance the fortunes of the company where the bulk of his wealth was concentrated; in 2001, he took over the day-to-day management of Norilsk Nickel as its new general director.
It's hard to know whether what Prokhorov accomplished in his six years running Norilsk Nickel illustrates the sort of strategy he believes will help propel the Nets to the top of the league, or the not-so-soft authoritarianism that will end in Plan E.
''When he took over Norilsk Nickel, the hemorrhaging had stopped and the company was back on its feet,'' recalled Christophe Charlier, who worked under Prokhorov as head of mergers and acquisitions at the company from 2002 to 2004 and is now deputy C.E.O. of Prokhorov's investment firm, Onexim Group, and the chairman of the Nets. ''But there was no volume on the stock, no liquidity, analysts didn't cover the company. There were no independent members on the board. We couldn't even answer the question how much nickel we had.''
Prokhorov worked out of the Moscow headquarters but made many trips to the city of Norilsk, and the factories and mines of the combine built under Stalin with gulag labor. Norilsk is a world unto itself. For decades a secret city that did not appear on Soviet maps, it is an island in the wilderness of the Taimyr Peninsula, 175 miles above the Arctic Circle, with no link to the outside world, no power lines, no railroads, no highways. Darkness and 20-below-zero temperatures grip the land for months during the winter. The ships that bring in food and trucks and clothes, and carry out thousands of tons of nickel and palladium and other ores, required icebreakers to clear lanes in the pack ice of the Kara Sea and the frozen Yenisey River. Norilsk is among the most polluted places on earth.
''When you are the C.E.O. of Norilsk Nickel, you are president of a country,'' Prokhorov told me. Assuming the top post, he made a point of working in the mines a couple of weeks, hoping, he said, to show his mettle and establish solidarity with the miners. He never sat down when talking about making Norilsk more efficient. ''It was important to create trust,'' he said. ''My slogan was, We need to be the global leader. We need to streamline the cost of production and increase the market cap. We need to simplify the workers' jobs. Better salaries. Better clothes. Better equipment. Cleaner factories. Better quality of job experience.''
And fewer workers. With shareholders now as much a consideration as employees, he spun off noncore businesses, like the harlequin's quilt of subsidiaries, which did everything from making furniture to bottling soft drinks to operating the Norilsk phone system. A labor force that numbered 129,000 in 1996 was more than halved by 2004. Prokhorov improved cafeterias, restaurants and lavatories, and brought in artists, theater companies and lecturers -- measures that enriched the culture but also soft-soaped the lost jobs and the cost-cutting. The company invested millions in pollution controls, but Norilsk remained among the most toxic places on earth, with elevated rates of lung cancer and an environment devastated for miles around by sulfur dioxide. Nickel dust from smelters fell so thickly that the soil around the city could be mined; acid rain has killed more than 1.2 million acres of trees. The chairman of the federation of trade unions in Norilsk once called Prokhorov a prime example of ''ice-cold managers who act without restraint.'' Some things Prokhorov did suggest a creepy usurpation of dissent -- a replacement of the control of the old Soviet state with the control of a for-profit corporation.
''We established a network of psychologists to take up some of the counseling that was previously done by trade unions,'' he said. ''I secretly supported an opposition press, the Norilchanin paper, which had always been very tough on the company. I said to the editor, 'I need a bit of criticism all the time.' The only goal was criticism. The editor pushed my staff to another level so much that from time to time my security people, who didn't know about the arrangement, tried to block the distribution of the paper.''
Prokhorov was resolved to make the revenues of Norilsk Nickel less vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of nickel and of palladium, one of the world's most valuable metals. He used the company's cash flow to buy a gold-mining firm, Polyus and then methodically added gold reserves from other parts of Russia. He acquired a 20 percent stake in a South African gold mine, which he later flipped for a profit that covered the cost of cobbling Polyus together. Then in 2006 he spun Polyus off to Norilsk Nickel shareholders, who essentially got what is now a $10 billion company free. During his tenure Norilsk Nickel stock went from less than $7 a share in 2001 to $189 in the first quarter of 2007. The market cap of the company, around $2.5 billion when he started, was more than $60 billion when he headed off for a ski holiday at the French resort in Courchevel in January 2007.
The Playboy of the Eastern World For many years Prokhorov spent the Russian Orthodox Christmas skiing at Courchevel, booking rooms in the luxury hotels for guests, among them, in 2007, a number of young Russian women whom the French authorities suspected of being prostitutes. Prokhorov says the seven young women were his guests.
Prokhorov was arrested at the Hotel Byblos and was detained in a cell in Lyon for 88 hours. ''I spent five or six hours a day shadowboxing and standing on my hands,'' he said. ''And I did a lot of stretching. I said to the police, 'I'm not in a hurry.' It sounds strange, but to a certain extent it was fun. I was reminded of my two years in the Soviet Army.''
The incident did not amuse his partner, Potanin. They had been drifting apart on questions of business strategy for some time, and the scandal brought their differences to a head. They agreed to dissolve their partnership and began negotiating a division of their common assets. In April 2008, Prokhorov sold his 25 percent stake in Norilsk Nickel not to Potanin but to another billionaire, Oleg Deripaska. In exchange for $13 billion of Norilsk Nickel stock, he received 14 percent of the Rusal, the world's largest aluminum producer, and $4.5 billion in cash, with $2.7 billion more to follow. It turned out to be the perfect time to cash out. By the fall of 2008, markets all over the world were cratering, and Prokhorov, flush with cash, pounced on depressed real estate, media properties and half of an investment bank. He also, to much criticism, reneged on the offering plan to buy out minority shareholders at a specified price when he took control in June 2008 of a major Russian power company called TGK-4. Had Prokhorov abided by the agreement, which was marketed to domestic and foreign investors by the Russian government, it would have cost him hundreds of millions of dollars. One investor, Prosperity Capital Management, a U.K. firm, put out a press release in October 2008 calling the maneuver Prokhorov was using to duck his obligation ''one of the worst transgressions of corporate governance we've seen.'' Prokhorov, who had begun seeking an N.B.A. team and was increasingly mindful of his international image, eventually settled with the minority shareholders under terms that remain confidential.
''The minority shareholders are happy now,'' says Dmitry Razumov, C.E.O. of Onexim Group, Prokhorov's investment firm. ''All claims have been resolved. We were lucky enough to find a loophole in the legislation to walk away from the deal.''
The fuss in France whetted the public's fascination with his romantic life. For eight years in his 30s, he said, he had a steady girlfriend but was never tempted to marry.
''Some people say the reason I am not married is that I don't understand small business and the toughest small business in the world is a family,'' he said. ''But when you are happy and feel every minute of your life, what is the reason to get married? I hate double standards. A lot of people say they love family and children and meanwhile they are on the dark side of the moon.''
I asked about the whole model-mad playboy motif, which seemed a bit of a put-on. ''It's a legend,'' Prokhorov admitted. ''But it is a legend I like to keep close to.''
One night in Moscow he invited me to one of his disco evenings, which he likes to organize every three weeks or so. On this Friday night in late July, his social secretary booked the V.I.P. area at a trendy den called the Soho Rooms, and then called several Russian modeling agencies to stock the pond.
When I arrived, Prokhorov was standing in a V.I.P. corral with two dozen high-cheekboned knockouts in lethal heels and dresses that were more like plot summaries. The blue and gray plastic V.I.P. bracelets on their wrists made them look like a flock of banded herons. Most couldn't have been more than 20 or 25, though it was hard to make a scientific evaluation with stroboscopic eruptions of green laser light exploding around the room. Prokhorov, in a striped gray suit, spent most of the night posted in the same spot, bobbing to the heavy beat, sipping club soda and occasionally chatting with a model bold enough to engage him.
But it was not the models who seemed to interest him so much as the fact that the V.I.P. area wasn't completely segregated from the rest of the club, and he could ''feel the energy'' of the smartly dressed new Russians on the main dance floor, all moving in unison, building a little socialism for the night.
He left, as planned, on the dot of 3.
Thirteen Is One Better Than Twelve It's possible that the ability to alight on a volleyball is just the sort of skill a Russian billionaire would want jumping into a new business in a foreign country. But the footing in contemporary Russia is in some ways much trickier.
One late afternoon at the end of September, a month before the start of the N.B.A. season, Prokhorov was reclining on a gray padded chair in his Moscow office, a cup of tea in front of him. The role he'd envisioned for himself as owner of the Nets had more to do with long-term strategy than with day-to-day operations, but there was still plenty of work left to get the project started. In two weeks the team would be stopping over in Moscow for a day to meet the new boss, make some appearances and then head off to China for two exhibition games. With their Russian ownership, the Nets had suddenly become one of the unlikely leaders of the N.B.A.'s efforts to gin up new business by ''globalizing'' its brand. (Despite relatively healthy attendance and TV ratings, the league reported losing $380 million last season.) The brand-building preseason games in China were arranged when the team had a seven-foot Chinese forward named Yi Jianlian as well as a Mandarin speaker in the marketing department. But with Proky's arrival, the Nets were suddenly covered with Russian dressing: a new Russian-language Web site, an office in Moscow, a five-year deal with Stolichnaya vodka. Worse, they were bound for China without Yi, who had been packed off to the Washington Wizards in June, or the Mandarin whiz, who'd been globalized out of a job. Ni hao? Nyet!
Now the season opener at the Prudential Center was less than a month away. Prokhorov was planning to fly over for the first three home games. As he leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes a moment -- it had been a long day, a hectic summer -- I remembered a time in July, when we traipsed down to the Moscow River to a boathouse in the flood plain where he kept a naval strike force of Rickter skis. He squirmed into a padded wet suit and then jumped into the tea-colored water, a side channel off the main flow. The water was warm; God knows what was in it. He was up and away in no time on the Rickter ski, hulking over the tippy hull like an adolescent on a toddler's bike. You could see the grasshopper in the Lada. At the touch of the throttle, the engine screamed like a furious chain saw, and he came ripping past the dock where a bunch of his friends were standing and then banked sharply, fanning up a tail of spray that sent them all dashing for cover. Out on the open water again, he gunned the craft in a hard circle, then cut back across the wave he'd raised, and the ski shot into the air, climbing the late gold light of a Moscow summer evening until Prokhorov was upside down with the 300-pound machine arcing over his head. He pulled it around full circle, thumping back into the water with a billowy thud. Again and again, he roiled the river and flung the Rickter ski off the waves through back flips and barrel rolls.
It dawned on me while I watched that he was chauffeured everywhere in Moscow -- working while the driver coped with the traffic -- and that this was his chance to steer. More than that: this was his chance to cut loose, to revel in a rush of unbuttoned adolescent freedom. The oligarchs of Russia aren't exactly paper tigers, but those who aren't in jail or exile understand the precariousness of their position, the importance of keeping the favor of the Kremlin. Last February, Prokhorov was publicly criticized by Putin for neglecting to fulfill promised investments in an electricity-generating project in southern Russia. Prokhorov initially had the temerity to say the prime minister was misinformed, but then, on further review, conceded that yes, the prime minister, whom he first met in 1994 at a bank opening in St. Petersburg, where Putin was the deputy mayor, was correct. When Prokhorov was angling for the Nets, he got the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, to mention his plans to President Barack Obama, as if U.S. politicians perforce had some say in how billionaires deployed their capital. At home, Prokhorov was at pains to stress how owning the Nets might benefit Russian basketball programs, enabling him to import N.B.A. ''technology,'' training regimens, coaching methods, sports medicine.
It was nearly dark when Prokhorov eased his ski up onto a trailer and emerged from the water. We stood around the stony landing as the day faded. He was not the invisible oligarch to an army of red ants. They began to swarm his ankles and wrists at first and somehow scaled his wet suit and got onto the back of his neck. He brushed them off, he tried slapping, but there were too many, and finally he waded back into the river and reclined into the sanctuary of the water with his eyes closed until just his head was clear.
Now in his office, he sprang out of his chair.
''Did you see the story about the Nets fan who wants an autographed jersey from Mr. P.?'' he said. He went out to the reception area, where two secretaries sat at computers, and returned with a printout.
He was pleased that the Prokhorov Effect had generated so much interest. Season-ticket sales were up. Fans were amped. But there was no denying the weight of all the promises either, the pressure to live up to expectations, the energy it took constantly to project an air of confidence. He once said the desire to be ''the man'' was at the base of all his aspirations. All that talk of strategy and competitive advantage wouldn't be worth a damn if the man's team was the global laughingstock of the league.
''Money doesn't drive me,'' he said. ''New ideas, the feeling of team spirit, mean more. To create a team better than any other, that's what drives me. To find the idea is one thing; to realize the idea is another.'' But really, comrade, how hard could it be? The old crew was 12 and 70 last year.
''As soon as we have the 13th victory, we can relax,'' he said, and he laughed -- but softly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mikhail Prokhorov, majority owner of the New Jersey Nets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLAF BLECKER) (MM33)
TEAM MEETING: Prokhorov with Mayor Bloomberg and Shawn Carter (Jay-Z), a Nets co-owner, at a breakfast at Gracie Mansion in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM34)
 IN THE PAINT: Left: Prokhorov on the Moscow River, while the city burned (from forest fires) behind him. Middle: On the way to his Moscow office in August. Right: At a Moscow discotheque with associates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HANS-JUERGEN BURKARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM36-MM37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BASKETBALL (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (66%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



862 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Raising a Caution Flag on Corporate Revenue

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
INVESTORS may need to start worrying about corporate revenues again.
This may come as a bit of a surprise, because sales among companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have grown for four consecutive quarters, after contracting at a record pace from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the third quarter of 2009.
And, based on the 306 S.& P. 500 companies that have reported quarterly sales so far, revenue was on track to grow 5.5 percent in the third quarter, versus the same period in 2009. 
But if this projection is borne out, it will mean that sales growth has actually decelerated from the second quarter, when sales grew 6.1 percent from the year-earlier period. S.& P. also said fourth-quarter revenue growth could slow even more, to 4.9 percent.
This hasn't yet seemed to hurt corporate profits, as earnings for all S.& P. 500 companies were expected to grow 30 percent in the third quarter. And 77 percent of all reporting companies have beaten analysts' forecasts.
But problems may be lurking. ''There are limits to how much more can come from cost-cutting,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. ''And decelerating revenue momentum does not bode well for lofty earnings expectations in 2011.''
In fact, expectations for next year's profits are declining. According to figures compiled by Thomson Reuters, Wall Street analysts think that S.& P. 500 earnings will grow 12.9 percent in 2011, down from the prediction of 14.2 percent earlier this month and from the forecast of 20.9 percent made in the spring.
The revenue picture looks even more troublesome when seen in terms of dollars, not percentages. Over all, companies are expected to generate $2.17 trillion in sales in the third quarter, according to S.& P. That's up from $2 trillion in the same period a year ago and $1.95 trillion in the second quarter of 2009, when the recession officially ended.
But even if companies meet this projection, sales will still be off 11 percent from the spring of 2008, before the economy felt the brunt of the financial crisis.
''You could argue that sales have not really come back,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P. Given how sharply sales contracted in the recession -- down more than 14 percent for four consecutive quarters -- Mr. Silverblatt said he would have expected the sales recovery to be much more pronounced. For example, in the bull market from October 2002 to October 2007, revenue grew nearly 8 percent a quarter, on average. Yet since sales began to recover in the current rebound, quarterly revenue has climbed only 4.7 percent, on average.
CAN this be a case of companies just needing more time to jump-start demand for their goods and services?
Possibly. But Ed Clissold, global equity strategist at Ned Davis Research in Venice, Fla., points out that the historical pace of sales growth among S.& P. 500 companies has often peaked two years after the start of an economic rebound. ''And when you get a peak in sales growth,'' Mr. Clissold said, ''earnings growth tends to slow considerably.''
Nearly 18 months into this recovery, the rate of revenue expansion has already started to decline. There's always the chance that this trend will reverse course. ''But with G.D.P. growth looking to be modest, you have to question where revenue growth will come from,'' he said.
John Butters, director of domestic earnings research for Thomson Reuters in Boston, says sales growth could well be more challenging to achieve because ''year-over-year comparisons will get harder now that the worst quarters for sales are well behind us.''
In the spring, many investors worried that weak demand might be signaling a potential double-dip downturn in the economy. This time around, investors seem to be looking at revenues as a sign of how muted this recovery is likely to be -- and how long it will be before corporations are ready to start hiring large numbers of new workers.
''The bottom line is that we're not seeing enough sales increases to encourage companies to go out and expand,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. ''And until sales expand, firms won't be spending. And as long as they're not spending, they won't be hiring.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY REVENUES (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



863 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE LOYAL TROOPS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: At Paladino headquarters, sharing anger, seeking a reckoning.

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
A COUPLE of weeks ago, an old man living near the airport called Carl P. Paladino's campaign headquarters in downtown Buffalo.
He wanted to offer his services -- actually, his roof. Every plane arriving at or departing from Buffalo Niagara International passed directly over his house, in Cheektowaga. While normally a bother, the situation was -- in an election year, he sensed -- a golden opportunity. Any chance, he asked, that he could get a giant Paladino sign? And a young guy with a ladder?
The task fell to Andrea Harter, a former social worker who lost her job this year and has, since July, become, in her own words, the unpaid ''go-to chick'' of the campaign to elect Mr. Paladino, the Republican nominee for governor of New York. Ms. Harter, 56 and divorced, spends about 30 hours each week on the campaign, answering phones, assembling signs, attending rallies and responding to queries from supporters like the enterprising gentleman in Cheektowaga. In exchange, there are free pretzels: Ms. Harter is that critical piece of campaign currency, the volunteer. 
For the man near the airport, she went to the top, calling Joe Paladino, the candidate's brother. ''Do we have a sign that big?'' she asked. They did. (Ditto the young guy.) Ms. Harter, who is barely five feet tall, pumped her fist and hung up the phone. Another voter served. Amid the miscues and the media disasters, there is a noticeable go-to sensibility in Paladino politics, a do-it-yourself-ness that, while no doubt stemming from necessity, is also a reflection of the candidate's condition as a proudly self-made man.
Mr. Paladino's metaphor-of-choice for the Andrea Harters of the world is ''junkyard dogs'' (compared with the ''pedigreed poodles'' who work for his opponent). When the nuns at the Catholic school he had attended chided Mr. Paladino for his ''Mad as Hell'' campaign signs, the volunteers corps immediately switched to less offensive placards reading, ''I'm Mad, Too!'' None of the folks toiling in the down-at-the-heels office here seem to really know -- or care -- what happens at the other guy's campaign, but at Paladino for the People, it is roundly noted that calls come in from savvy senior citizens who reckon that their roofs can serve some use.
''It's all regular people,'' Ms. Harter said as she worked her way through a scribbled list of fellow volunteers. Her task that day -- beyond the acquisition of the roof sign -- was to rustle up bodies for a last pre-election push on the phone banks. This required making beseeching calls to the carpenters, veterans and suburban women who had, weeks before, promised their assistance in turning out the vote:
''Hi, Bernard. This is Andrea, from Paladino for the People. I'm calling to see if you have time next week for. ... Really? Great. How does Thursday work?''
MS. HARTER had never worked for a campaign before, and she found her way to this one as a ''Democrat for Carl'': a lifelong liberal whose pedigree goes back to shocking her Nixonian parents by casting her first vote, in 1972, for George McGovern. In 2008, she chose Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primary and Barack Obama in November.
She was, by that point, vaguely disappointed by what often disappoints defectors from the Democratic Party these days: high taxes and annoyance at federal largess. She stayed blue, nonetheless, the decisive factor being John McCain's selection of Sarah Palin (''that screwball from Alaska'') as his running mate.
But in the two years since, her disappointments have only deepened, and darkened. Like many Paladino volunteers, Ms. Harter's frustrations revolve around that nebulous entity she refers to as ''the System'' -- a boiling stew pot of intractable unemployment, redistributionist social policy and the annoying permanence of ''career politicians'' -- frustrations that she acknowledged were first more intuitively felt than cerebrally understood.
Until February, she worked as a manager at a group home for AIDS patients, where certain things disturbed her sense of fairness. Several of her clients got cellphones through a government program called Lifeline, for instance; others had prescriptions for Viagra paid by Medicaid. When federally subsidized adult undergarments were handed out, she said, she sometimes saw her patients selling them on the street.
''At the same time, I was looking at my paycheck being cut and at the taxes coming out and I was thinking to myself, 'So where does it finally end?' '' Ms. Harter said. ''Seeing the waste and the entitlement was wearing on me.''
''I'm a helper,'' she quickly added. ''I want to help people. I've held the hands of people who are dying. I've cleaned their blood. I understand there's a need to help. But let's make sure we do it in a smart, efficient way.''
Then, in April, two months after Ms. Harter was laid off, Mr. Paladino announced his run for governor. He was, as it turned out, a known commodity: Ms. Harter's 26-year-old daughter, Leah, works for Ellicott Development, Mr. Paladino's real estate company, and the two families had become friendly. As a candidate, he managed, almost instantly, to articulate Ms. Harter's previously unexpressed dissatisfaction. She liked that he was angry. She liked that he promised to bring a baseball bat to Albany. Mr. Paladino was a ''regular, common'' person -- his own man. ''I think that's why we relate to him,'' she said.
And so she started spending more time in the campaign's volunteer room, down the hall from Mr. Paladino's corporate office in the Ellicott Square Building, where Leah also works. Downtown Buffalo, like many Great Lakes cities, is sorely lacking in visible humanity. But the Ellicott building, a boxy structure that was said to be, at its completion in 1896, the largest office building in the world, bustles during the week. Its Italian Renaissance-style atrium is filled with workers lingering on coffee break; smokers huddle on sidewalks near its doorways; the snack shop offers beef on ''weck'' -- a Buffalonian specialty of roast beef on a kummelweck roll($6.95).
The volunteer room, where Ms. Harter now passes several days each week, is a pleasantly disheveled place, resembling a college dorm at finals. Exposed wires dangle from the ceiling; campaign brochures and piles of Paladino signs are strewn across the floor. There are lollipops and bowls of pretzels and crates of discount Faygo soda stacked in the corner. Sometimes the computers work, sometimes they do not. A zebra mask of unexplained origin rests beside the wall.
ON a recent Friday morning, the chatter in the room revolved around a late-breaking story in that day's edition of The Buffalo News reporting that Mr. Paladino was 14 points behind in the latest statewide poll. This was taken as a positive development -- other polls had put the gap at 24 and 37 points -- and as certain proof, in a season like the present one, that anything was possible. ''You see,'' Ms. Harter said. '' 'Crazy Carl' is coming back.'' Without the use of actual moving fingers, her air quotes were clear.
The trope ''Crazy Carl,'' a product of Mr. Paladino's endless appetite for his own foot, drives Ms. Harter and the other campaign volunteers into fits of sympathetic madness. It is, they say, a media concoction (or, at the very least, an insincere distortion) and does not reflect the successful local mogul who, despite his trailing numbers, commands a healthy portion of Buffalo's respect. ''The man is not an idiot, and he is definitely not crazy,'' Ms. Harter said. ''Is he a politician? No. Is he politically correct? No.''
She glanced around the room at a half-dozen volunteers speaking into telephone receivers, reading from their campaign scripts. ''If he was crazy,'' she posited, ''do you think that all these people would even be here?''
Because of this perceived unfairness from establishment politicians and news organizations, a deep defensiveness has been stirred in Ms. Harter and her comrades that borders, not infrequently, on mild paranoia. They distrust outsiders, a dissonant reaction for people serving a candidate whose entire campaign has been run from the outside.
When a reporter called a senior volunteer on her cellphone, the volunteer asked, suspiciously, how he had obtained the number. (From a receptionist.) When he bid hello to -- and blandly asked the name of -- another volunteer, the response was an automatic ''No comment.''
Late one afternoon, Ms. Harter left the office to visit her daughter's house, on the city's west side, to feed her ''grand-dog,'' a teacup Chihuahua named Marco. The brief drive turned into a sightseeing tour. Here were several properties that Mr. Paladino owned (a drugstore, a grocery, some parking lots). Here was the docked Navy vessel where Ms. Harter did her drinking as a teenager. Here was the blink-and-you'll-miss-it stretch of downtown waterfront.
It became apparent that part of what speaks to Ms. Harter about Mr. Paladino, beyond his tax cutting and budget shredding and personal panache, is how he has become synonymous with a vision of Buffalo as a city to be reckoned with, as finally existing on some metaphorical map.
''People think we're hicks up here,'' she said. ''They think that anything outside of New York City is just a bunch of tumbleweeds. But Carl is our voice. Our voice will be heard.''
And what was the voice saying?
''Us first for a change. Instead of us last.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENTHUSIASTIC: Andrea Harter, a ''Democrat for Carl.'' (MB1)
 FRUSTRATED: Andrea Harter is doing campaign work for Carl P. Paladino because, she says, he expresses her own dissatisfaction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN CAPPELLAZZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); DOGS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010



864 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: 'Rebalancing' China

 BODY:
China's artificially cheap exports are flooding foreign markets, undercutting industries, threatening the global recovery, and angering many. Beijing has resisted demands to allow its currency to rise against the dollar. 
A new proposal could offer a way out. The Obama administration, which has been trying to rally pressure on Beijing, is calling on the world's largest economies to agree to a target for the size of their trade imbalances.
At a meeting of finance ministers of the Group of 20 leading economies, the United States proposed that deficits or surpluses in a country's current account -- the trade balance and some financial transactions -- should be brought under 4 percent of G.D.P., by 2015.
This country's current account deficit amounts to 3 percent of its G.D.P. Still, a 4 percent target could help reduce the world's largest imbalances. China's surplus is 5 percent of its G.D.P.; Germany's surplus is 6 percent.
These huge surpluses mean exports from China and Germany are hogging demand in other countries. As consumer spending falters in deficit countries, including the United States, surplus countries must start buying more of their own, and others', products.
Some countries balked at the number. The group agreed in principle, and China has signed on so far.
Focusing on its surplus wouldn't mean that China's currency manipulation was off the hook. To meet the target, it would have to let the renminbi rise to increase its imports and temper export growth.
But the new goal acknowledges that China also has other tools to increase spending at home, improve the lives of its people, and reduce external imbalances. It could raise wages and deploy some of its mountain of reserves to pay for long-neglected social spending on health care, education and pensions.
A declining Chinese surplus will not close the American current account deficit. That mainly requires Americans to save more of their income. The change would increase China's demand for imports from America and others. Countries that have cheapened their own currency to protect themselves from China could let their currencies rise and draw more American imports too.
Putting targets on deficits and surpluses might put some nations in a straitjacket. And there is no enforcement mechanism. Still, reframing the problem this way might bring China around. It allows Beijing to claim it is not caving to Washington -- and pitch policy changes as a much-needed effort to spend more money, where it belongs, at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



865 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; ELECTION 2010; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2294 words

HEADLINE: D.I.Y. Populism, Left and Right

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
PROVO, Utah -- Generally speaking, Tea Party enthusiasts don't think much of East Coast media types, and it was hard not to consider this fact as David Kirkham slammed his roadster into fifth gear, topping out at more than 100 miles per hour as we hurtled toward another curve. Chunks of rubber -- ''marbles,'' the drivers call them -- flew off the tires as the car violently slowed and banked, the acrid smell of burning brake pads rising from the cement.
As Mr. Kirkham expertly maneuvered this car he had designed and built in his factory, I began to understand that there was a point to his having invited me along for the ride, and it wasn't to give me a heart attack. The message he seemed to be sending was, We are not who you think we are. We are serious people with serious abilities. 
As recently as a year ago, these cars were Mr. Kirkham's sole passion. For about $100,000, Kirkham Motorsports, the company Mr. Kirkham started with his brother, Thomas, in 1995, will build you an exact replica of the 1960s-era Shelby Cobra, sculpted from 1,500 pounds of aluminum. A custom-made version like the one Mr. Kirkham designed and built for Larry Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, will run you something closer to $1 million. Let's just say Mr. Kirkham does all right.
But now, at 43, Mr. Kirkham has another obsession: He is the founder, more or less, of the now 10,000-strong Utah Tea Party, the chapter that helped get this national movement rolling by leading a stunning revolt against a sitting senator, Robert Bennett, at the state's Republican caucuses in March and the subsequent party convention in May.
These days, Mr. Kirkham, a married father of four, spends as many as 10 hours a day on Tea Party business, much of it sending e-mails back and forth with activists in Utah and around the country.
I first called Mr. Kirkham in June, after seeing his name listed as a Utah contact on a Tea Party Web site. In that conversation, he graciously walked me through some issues foremost in the minds of Utah Tea Partiers. But what lingered with me, after we had hung up, was how his personal story seemed oddly familiar.
Beginning in 2004, I spent almost three years exploring the world of self-described progressive activists then reshaping Democratic politics -- bloggers and volunteers devoted to ending not just George W. Bush's war in Iraq but also what they saw as fear and fecklessness among their own party's leaders. Something about David Kirkham, the former Eagle Scout and Mormon missionary, seemed strikingly similar to those activists, even though they were his cultural and ideological opposite.
And so just a few weeks before midterm elections that seemed likely to displace the status quo in Washington yet again, I came to Utah to hear a story of political awakening that says a lot about grass-roots activism in the new century. To understand the larger forces that unify many self-styled activists on both the left and right is to understand why American politics in the years ahead will almost certainly continue to careen wildly from one sharp curve to another, steered not by politicians and their parties, but by the David Kirkhams just waiting to emerge.
Every activist has a journey, and David Kirkham's begins in Mielec, Poland, a factory town south of Warsaw.
Mr. Kirkham was restoring vintage cars in the mid-1990s, when he and his brother, an engineer, got a look at an aluminum-bodied, Polish-made fighter jet left over from the cold war, which just happened to be sitting in a hangar in Provo. An idea blossomed. If metalworkers in Poland were skilled enough to build this jet, then couldn't they use the same materials to make a replica of the Cobra, a legendary roadster that is to some car enthusiasts what pink unicorns are to little girls?
It wasn't long before Mr. Kirkham, possessed of a gregarious soul and irrepressible confidence, was on his way across the ocean, armed with a Polish-English dictionary and pictures of the car he wanted to manufacture.
What he saw there, he will tell you, affected him deeply. In the economic detritus of Communism, some of the world's most skilled craftsmen sat idle all day, with nothing to build. During one of his first few visits, before he bought the airplane factory and started making cars, the government laid off 20,000 workers, and Mr. Kirkham watched the men file out the door robotically, their faces ashen, their lives in shards. This is what happens, Mr. Kirkham thought, when the state controls the economy. (The car's body is still produced in Poland, although Mr. Kirkham now produces almost all of its internal machinery on his factory floor in Provo.)
None of this made Mr. Kirkham especially political. A self-described libertarian, Mr. Kirkham considered himself Republican, though he rarely voted in primaries. He liked President George W. Bush and supported the Iraq war, but he had never listened to Rush Limbaugh or even heard of Glenn Beck. Politics wasn't part of his life.
Then came the Republican-led bank bailouts in 2008, followed by President Obama's first acts in office: more bailouts and the stimulus package. We are heading down the path of Poland, Mr. Kirkham thought. ''He's a socialist,'' Mr. Kirkham said when I asked his opinion of the president. ''There's no question. He's a statist.''
He felt sickened and powerless. And so, at home after a long day's work, he started doing what a lot of sickened and powerless people do in the Internet age. He found the blogs.
It was on the conservative blog Instapundit where Mr. Kirkham first read about the Tea Party rallies that were materializing around the country in that winter of 2009. After a few days, when it seemed that no one else was going to post a date and time for a Utah rally, Mr. Kirkham did it himself, then called the Capitol in Salt Lake City to secure a permit for the last day of the legislative session.
On March 6, Mr. Kirkham strapped himself into his silver Cobra and drove to the Capitol, fearing the worst. ''I walked to where the podium was, and I thought no one would be there,'' he recalls. ''I thought I was going to be laughed at.'' In fact, 100 people showed up to that first rally, at which Mr. Kirkham showed off his considerable talent as a dramatic storyteller, reliving his impressions of socialism abroad. Within weeks, Mr. Kirkham had amassed a growing e-mail list and joined forces with dozens of loyal volunteers. Mr. Kirkham found himself instructing other Tea Party members on how the Republican caucuses worked, so they could take down Mr. Bennett, who had voted for the bank bailouts. Mr. Kirkham got himself elected as a Republican precinct chairman, garnering 83 percent of the vote in a three-way race.
In the course of all this, the affable car designer became, improbably, a very influential man in Utah, a state dominated by Republicans. A local television network is planning to broadcast live from his home on Election Night. He recently rented a tuxedo to attend a Salt Lake City gala for the state's political elite, although he says he felt self-conscious and out of place and won't be going back.
Although Mr. Kirkham professes not to like politicians as a rule, he refers frequently to his conversations with some of the state's leading political figures, including his new friend Orrin -- as in Orrin G. Hatch, who has served in the United States Senate since Mr. Kirkham was 10. Mr. Hatch seemed to grasp the relevance of the Tea Party movement long before his doomed colleague, Mr. Bennett. After that first rally, Mr. Hatch invited Mr. Kirkham up to his Salt Lake City office for a long chat about cars and politics. The two now talk often, and Mr. Kirkham has brought Mr. Hatch to Tea Party events -- including a picnic in the canyons -- where he has had the chance to explain his record to hundreds of furious conservative activists. (''I'm angry, too!'' Mr. Hatch told me.)
In other words, Mr. Kirkham has become a bridge between the party establishment and its alienated constituents, a man to whom confused politicians can turn to understand and survive a turbulent moment.
''I was a little apprehensive to meet him,'' Mr. Hatch told me recently. ''But I think he's one of the finest people I've met, and I'm not just saying that. David Kirkham is a leader.''
Spending time with Mr. Kirkham was like seeing a movie for the second time, only with different actors and from a different angle. His story reminded me of Chuck Fazio, the owner of a video production company, who didn't care a whit about politics before the Iraq war, but who threw a MoveOn.org party at his home because he just had to do something. Or Gina Cooper, a former science teacher who organized the convention of liberal bloggers that became Netroots Nation. Or Chris Bowers, a blogger who ran for precinct captain in his Philadelphia neighborhood so he could remake the Democratic Party from the ground up.
Ideology, of course, presents an unbridgeable chasm between the progressives and Tea Partiers like Mr. Kirkham. But whether the volunteers on either side would like to think so or not, several characteristics unite them.
The first is that both movements were made possible by the Internet revolution. Twenty years ago, it would have been all but impossible on the left or the right for so many of these like-minded activists find one another in such a short space of time; their best potential convener would have been the local party, with its entrenched leadership and arcane rules that seem designed to drive away newcomers. Blogs and e-mail and Twitter foster an instant, borderless connection, letting like-minded ideologues coordinate with people they've never met, from a laptop late at night or from an iPhone at the playground.
Second, these activists are products of a do-it-yourself culture -- the Internet-age notion that expertise in most things, once the province of a select few, is now just a few clicks away. Who needs a doctor when there's WebMD? Why hire a broker when E*Trade lets you do it yourself?
''What the hell is Roberts' Rules of Order?'' Mr. Kirkham remembers asking when he first researched the caucus process in Utah. ''Nobody knows that.'' Mr. Kirkham simply resolved to learn -- and then to teach others. ''I taught myself Polish,'' he told me. ''I taught myself to play the piano. It's what you have to do.''
Another common thread is that both movements are as much about community as they are about governance. They hold together not just because of a political agenda, but because they enable people to transcend a sense of civic isolation. ''I never dreamed that my world would extend beyond cars,'' Mr. Kirkham told me at one point. Now, he says, his closest friends include activists he met online, both men and women.
Perhaps, then, the recent uprisings on both ends of the ideological spectrum shouldn't be viewed as opposing trends, but rather as points on the same cultural continuum. And this may mean that we have to rethink our notions of how grass-roots movements affect our politics. We are inclined to see successful popular movements as having a certain historical sweep and impact. For instance, you could say that the 20th century was largely shaped by three such movements: the progressives whose reforms culminated in the New Deal; the crusaders for social justice who from the 1950s on transformed our notions of equality; and the Goldwater conservatives who ascended to power with Reagan.
What we are seeing now -- and are bound to see more of in the years ahead -- might better be described as a series of mini-movements. They come together quickly, almost like flash mobs, anointing leaders overnight and reaching peak intensity within weeks or months. They create a satisfying outlet for frustration and a means for social connection.
But it's possible that the very speed and ease with which these movements rise up also make them, in the end, more ephemeral and less transformative. Such mini-movements are easily quieted, their intensity easily sapped, by a cathartic election like the one in 2008, after which some progressives grew disillusioned with the pace of change, while others came to see themselves as part of a new Democratic establishment.
Mr. Kirkham and other Tea Party leaders are already moving easily among the Republican elite they once disdained. If Republicans were to regain control of Congress on Tuesday, or win back the White House in 2012, would Mr. Kirkham still spend so many of his waking hours agitating for libertarian policies?
And perhaps because it's so rooted in spontaneity and anger, the modern mini-movement, while inspiring in its capacity to engage Americans in the issues of the day, may also lack the intellectual staying power of the last century's uprisings. The original progressives gave us women's suffrage and consumer protections; the civil rights movement desegregated our schools and restaurants; the conservatives introduced still controversial but enduring ideas like school choice and supply-side economics.
The mini-movement, on the other hand, seems to array itself against the most recent iteration of change, rather than advancing a modern agenda of its own.
Perhaps, then, we should expect the liberal bloggers of 2006 and the Tea Partiers of 2010 to be eclipsed in the years ahead by other grassroots insurrections. For politicians, the implications of this new world are unsettling, as they look for a way to withstand the battering from one side and then another.
They might take a lesson from Utah, where one long-serving senator is packing up his office, while the other picnics with the Tea Party. You can try to reason with the David Kirkhams of the world, or adopt their rhetoric. The one thing you can't do, it seems, is wish the new reality away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW FOCUS: Like some other activists, David Kirkham, top, had little to do with politics. But after the stimulus plan and bank bailouts, he went online and started the Tea Party in Utah. (WK1)
 A TEA PARTY DAY: David Kirkham and Chris Herrod, a Republican representative, canvassing together during the evening in Orem, Utah (top photo). Earlier in the day, Mr. Kirkham drove one of his show cars (above) to a Tea Party rally at Brigham Young University in Provo, where members held signs and asked drivers to honk and wave (photo, left). That day, Mr. Kirkham also helped organize a rally at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, loading signs into the bed of his truck (below). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); POLITICS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAUCUSES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (63%); ELECTIONS (63%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); RELIGION (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); ROBERT BENNETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVO, UT, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



866 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: I Asserted Myself, And Got The Job

BYLINE: By MARAT GAZIEV. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.; E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN I was hunting last summer for a job in search engine optimization, I started by applying for positions advertised on major online job boards. I looked for openings in San Diego, where I was living, and used one resume. I didn't research the companies or consider gearing the resume's focus toward a particular job.
I got calls from about five niche e-commerce companies, and all wanted phone interviews. The interviewers would tell me to describe what I did at my existing job, which was also in search engine optimization -- how to drive more traffic toward a Web site -- and I would tell them. Then they'd pose a hypothetical situation and ask me to respond. I'd answer and wait for the next question. I thought that the more questions I answered well, the better my chances of getting a job. But I never got a callback from any of them. 
Looking back, I see what I did wrong. I had an outdated way of thinking about the interview process. I didn't provide any detail, I didn't talk about how I saw the industry, and I didn't offer any tips on how they could improve their online presence. I was doing the bare minimum instead of trying to sell myself.
I guess I thought that I had the qualifications and that the interviewers would see them for what they were. But being passive doesn't cut it. My capabilities just weren't coming across.
Because I was working at an S.E.O. firm when I started my search, I was in a different position than many other job hunters. Most people would probably say I didn't have the same pressure as someone who'd been unemployed for a long time, and that's true. But I was doing innovative work for the company and didn't feel I was valued.
I was becoming upset that I wasn't getting anywhere in my job search, and realized I should change my strategy. I widened my search to other California cities and other states and became more proactive. I researched each company I applied to -- and reorganized my resume to better focus on the job at hand. I also planned to offer several ideas outlining what I'd do if I were hired.
You have to be careful when you do this, however, so you don't sound like a know-it-all. Suggesting that the company change its name, for example, is nervy. You also can't say you're going to make $3 million for the company in a year. You have to find small things that you might improve on a scalable level.
But you need to appear confident. You can't afford to be tentative when there's so much competition for jobs.
When I got an interview with a large hotel chain, I was assertive. I said: ''I've noticed that the title tag on this page could be more descriptive so that the search engines will be sure to pick it up. I'm not familiar with your process, or what department would be responsible for that decision, but it seems like a good idea.''
My suggestions got me a second interview, a teleconference with a few team members. In it, I asked questions in a way that promoted camaraderie.
I kept making recommendations. I said I'd change the layout of some pages and include more content but keep it user-friendly. My tactics worked; I got an interview with a top executive. I knew that at this level, he'd be concerned about S.E.O. strategy, so I prepared by researching the company's rivals. I created a quick competitive analysis for him and tried to keep it light when I presented it.
I figured that the more you progress through interviews, the more high-level the conversation becomes. If you can talk the person's language, you earn more points. There doesn't seem to be a hard-and-fast formula, like ''Do this, say this and you'll land a certain type of job.'' It's all about being flexible. You have to adapt to the industry, the company and the level of the interviewer.
I did get the hotel job. I was honored when the marketing manager called, because she said that it had many candidates and that I stood out. The salary was disappointing, however, so I turned it down and kept searching.
NOT long afterward, I saw a position at TMP Worldwide, a recruitment advertising firm, listed on a job board. I got a phone interview. Google had just updated one of its search algorithms, an important event in the S.E.O. field. I mentioned this early in the conversation to show I knew what was happening in the industry.
The company invited me to Chicago for a second interview, and I decided to bring along my laptop. It's helpful to show a Web page while you're talking about what's effective and what you might change. I would also be able to demonstrate how I use S.E.O. tools on the Web, as not everyone uses them the same way. I was pleased with how it went. What a difference from how passive I'd been in those early interviews.
I've been at TMP Worldwide since August. Getting this job was a matter of educating myself about the best approach and adapting my strategy. Like everything else in life, it was a process. I made an effort to think about each succeeding step and what might get me further along. Luckily, it worked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marat Gaziev, 24, a search engine optimization analyst at TMP Worldwide in Chicago, says that confidence is crucial during a job interview. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



867 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Double-Dipping (and Doing Well) in a Tough Economy, With Perhaps a Pang of Guilt

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
From his tidy office tucked behind an elementary school in the quiet town of Tiburon, Police Chief Michael Cronin warily greeted a visitor.
''Who told you about me?'' he said. He later admitted that his exposure was ''inevitable.'' 
Mr. Cronin's sheepishness is not a result of committing a crime, but because he is a practitioner of what is informally known as doubling-dipping -- when a government employee retires at a relatively young age with one pension, then gets a new job with a different government entity and begins accumulating a second income stream.
As public-employee pensions and benefits weigh more heavily on stressed government budgets, a public employee like Chief Cronin -- who earns $330,000 a year, not including health benefits, combining a Marin County pension and his Tiburon salary -- can be expected to draw notice. Recent studies by Northwestern University found that local governments face $574 billion in unfunded pension liabilities, while state governments face a $3 trillion shortfall.
The heightened scrutiny has left some public employees feeling like public enemies. But Chief Cronin quickly overcame his initial apprehension at talking about his situation. A Vietnam veteran who grew up in the Bay Area and never completed college, Chief Cronin retired as police chief in nearby San Rafael in 2004, when he was 56. He draws a $184,000 annual pension from Marin County.
He dabbled in real estate, then drove cross-country. But by 2007, Mr. Cronin said, he was ''a little bored'' and ready to start working again.
Tiburon, with a population of about 9,000 and only four murders over the past 40 years, needed a new police chief. Mr. Cronin got the job -- at $146,000 a year. He will qualify for a second pension through CalPERs by 2012.
''Fair or unfair is not really the point,'' Mr. Cronin said, when asked about his compensation at a time when many local governments are facing large deficits. ''A great number of people in this economy are feeling pain,'' he said, adding that there is a perception that ''public employees are somewhat insulated from that.'' He contributed to the pension fund for most of his years as a public employee.
Marin has cut 180 jobs from its payroll over the past three years, said Dan Eilerman, the county budget manager.
Chief Cronin draws the county retirement fund's second-largest payout. Mark Riesenfeld, a former Marin County administrator, is currently the top beneficiary at $232,000 a year.
Chief Cronin said he understood the many forces at play. Budget pressure meant he did not fill two vacancies on his force, which now has 13 officers.
But on a personal level, he said, ''I am an obvious beneficiary of the system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); LAYOFFS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



868 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: How Immigrants Create More Jobs

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
IN the campaign season now drawing to a close, immigration and globalization have often been described as economic threats. The truth, however, is more complex.
Over all, it turns out that the continuing arrival of immigrants to American shores is encouraging business activity here, thereby producing more jobs, according to a new study. Its authors argue that the easier it is to find cheap immigrant labor at home, the less likely that production will relocate offshore.
The study, ''Immigration, Offshoring and American Jobs,'' was written by two economics professors -- Gianmarco I. P. Ottaviano of Bocconi University in Italy and Giovanni Peri of the University of California, Davis -- along with Greg C. Wright, a Ph.D. candidate at Davis. 
The study notes that when companies move production offshore, they pull away not only low-wage jobs but also many related jobs, which can include high-skilled managers, tech repairmen and others. But hiring immigrants even for low-wage jobs helps keep many kinds of jobs in the United States, the authors say. In fact, when immigration is rising as a share of employment in an economic sector, offshoring tends to be falling, and vice versa, the study found.
In other words, immigrants may be competing more with offshored workers than with other laborers in America.
American economic sectors with much exposure to immigration fared better in employment growth than more insulated sectors, even for low-skilled labor, the authors found. It's hard to prove cause and effect in these studies, or to measure all relevant variables precisely, but at the very least, the evidence in this study doesn't offer much support for the popular bias against immigration, and globalization more generally.
We see the job-creating benefits of trade and immigration every day, even if we don't always recognize them. As other papers by Professor Peri have shown, low-skilled immigrants usually fill gaps in American labor markets and generally enhance domestic business prospects rather than destroy jobs; this occurs because of an important phenomenon, the presence of what are known as ''complementary'' workers, namely those who add value to the work of others. An immigrant will often take a job as a construction worker, a drywall installer or a taxi driver, for example, while a native-born worker may end up being promoted to supervisor. And as immigrants succeed here, they help the United States develop strong business and social networks with the rest of the world, making it easier for us to do business with India, Brazil and most other countries, again creating more jobs.
For all the talk of the dangers of offshoring, there is a related trend that we might call in-shoring. Dell or Apple computers may be assembled overseas, for example, but those products aid many American businesses at home and allow them to expand here. A cheap call center in India can encourage a company to open up more branches to sell its products in the United States.
Those are further examples of how some laborers can complement others; it's not all about one group of people taking jobs from another. Job creation and destruction are so intertwined that, over all, the authors find no statistically verifiable connection between offshoring and net creation of American jobs.
We're all worried about unemployment, but the problem is usually rooted in macroeconomic conditions, not in immigration or offshoring. (According to a Pew study, the number of illegal immigrants from the Caribbean and Latin America fell 22 percent from 2007 to 2009; their departure has not had much effect on the weak United States job market.) Remember, too, that each immigrant consumes products sold here, therefore also helping to create jobs.
When it comes to immigration, positive-sum thinking is too often absent in public discourse these days. Debates on immigration and labor markets reflect some common human cognitive failings -- namely, that we are quicker to vilify groups of different ''others'' than we are to blame impersonal forces.
Consider the fears that foreign competition, offshoring and immigration have destroyed large numbers of American jobs. In reality, more workers have probably been displaced by machines -- as happens every time computer software eliminates a task formerly performed by a clerical worker. Yet we know that machines and computers do the economy far more good than harm and that they create more jobs than they destroy.
Nonetheless, we find it hard to transfer this attitude to our dealings with immigrants, no matter how logically similar ''cost-saving machines'' and ''cost-saving foreign labor'' may be in their economic effects. Similarly, tariffs or other protectionist measures aimed at foreign nations have a certain populist appeal, even though their economic effects may be roughly the same as those caused by a natural disaster that closes shipping lanes or chokes off a domestic harbor.
AS a nation, we spend far too much time and energy worrying about foreigners. We also end up with more combative international relations with our economic partners, like Mexico and China, than reason can justify. In turn, they are more economically suspicious of us than they ought to be, which cements a negative dynamic into place.
The current skepticism has deadlocked prospects for immigration reform, even though no one is particularly happy with the status quo. Against that trend, we should be looking to immigration as a creative force in our economic favor. Allowing in more immigrants, skilled and unskilled, wouldn't just create jobs. It could increase tax revenue, help finance Social Security, bring new home buyers and improve the business environment.
The world economy will most likely grow more open, and we should be prepared to compete. That means recognizing the benefits -- including the employment benefits -- that immigrants bring to this country.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); WRITERS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CALL CENTERS (60%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



869 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Microscopic Microeconomics

BYLINE: By JONAH LEHRER. 
Jonah Lehrer is the author, most recently, of ''How We Decide.''

 BODY:
In the last decade or so, the American economy has been undone by a series of bubbles. First there was the dot-com boom, in which start-ups without business models were suddenly worth billions of dollars. Then after a brief recession, we began speculating about real estate, so that Las Vegas tract homes tripled in value before they even had roofs. The latest suspect for a bubble is gold, which has doubled in price over the past three years.
Why are bubbles such a persistent feature of financial history? Economists argue that these speculative frenzies are caused in part by market failures like too much liquidity or lax regulation. Cognitive psychologists, meanwhile, see bubbles as a case of pattern recognition gone awry, as people extrapolate the past into the future. In recent years, neuroscientists also have become interested in bubbles, if only because the financial manias seem to take advantage of deep-seated human flaws; the market fails only because the brain fails first. Read Montague, at Baylor College of Medicine, has spent the last few years trying to decipher the bits of brain behind our irrational exuberance. It's microeconomics at its most microscopic. 
Montague's experiments go like this: A subject is given $100 and some basic information about the stock market. After choosing how much money to invest, the player watches as his investments either rise or fall in value. The game continues for 20 rounds, and the subject gets to keep the money. One interesting twist is that instead of using random simulations of the market, Montague relies on real data from past markets, so people unwittingly ''play'' the Dow of 1929, the S&P 500 of 1987 and the Nasdaq of 1999. While the subjects are making their investment decisions, Montague measures the activity of neurons in the brain.
At first, Montague's data confirmed the obvious: our brains crave reward. He watched as a cluster of dopamine neurons acted like greedy information processors, firing rapidly as the subjects tried to maximize their profits during the early phases of the bubble. When share prices kept going up, these brain cells poured dopamine into the caudate nucleus, which increased the subjects' excitement and led them to pour more money into the market. The bubble was building.
But then Montague discovered something strange. As the market continued to rise, these same neurons significantly reduced their rate of firing. ''It's as if the cells were getting anxious,'' Montague says. ''They knew something wasn't right.'' And then, just before the bubble burst, these neurons typically stopped firing altogether. In many respects, these dopamine neurons seem to be acting like an internal thermostat, shutting off when the market starts to overheat. Unfortunately, the rest of the brain is too captivated by the profits to care: instead of heeding the warning, the brain obeys the urges of so-called higher regions, like the prefrontal cortex, which are busy coming up with all sorts of reasons that the market will never decline. In other words, our primal emotions are acting rationally, while those rational circuits are contributing to the mass irrationality.
This is a costly mental mistake. Montague notes that investors who listened to the prescient dopamine neurons would earn much more money than the typical subjects, largely because they would get out of the market before it was too late. ''It's crazy to think that there's a signal in our head that's so much smarter than we are,'' Montague says.
While these data contain plenty of caveats, they nevertheless provide an important insight into how the brain makes sense of the marketplace and why we sometimes get swept away by speculation. The mind is not a single voice but an argument, a chamber of competing voices, and a bubble occurs when we listen to the wrong side.
Unfortunately this tendency is exacerbated by other people. Montague has also found, for instance, that subjects in the investment game are extremely vulnerable to what he calls ''the country-club effect,'' which occurs when we try to make more money than someone else. ''This is what happens when you're sitting around with your friends at the country club or watching cable TV, and everybody is talking about their huge profits,'' he says. ''Those conversations are going to change the way you think about risk.'' Men seem especially vulnerable to this foible: When they competed against strangers, they were much more likely to get swept away by the financial speculation.
Montague says he hopes that someday the neuroscience of bubbles will help us stop the speculation before it spirals out of control. ''The only way we're going to avoid the next bubble is by understanding why people start bubbles in the first place,'' he says. ''The Fed should buy a brain scanner.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY CHAD HAGEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); BRAIN (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (74%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



870 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: On Hard-Times TV, Dumpster Diving And Resume Rehab

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
CINDERELLA'S fairy godmother arrived bearing a magic wand by which she produced the ball gown, pumpkin coach and glass slippers that made possible a gala night on the town.
The Fairy Jobmother, by contrast, swoops in bearing tough love and a cheerleader's energy, by which she hopes to convince unemployed families that by cleaning up their act and adjusting their priorities they can land a job even during the toughest of economic times. As her tag line sums it up: ''No wings, no wand, no excuses.''
The Fairy Jobmother, a 43-year-old Yorkshire-born hairdresser turned employment counselor named Hayley Taylor, arrived over the summer on a popular reality series on Channel 4 in Britain. The character proved so popular there that the show has been retrofitted for American audiences. The first of eight weekly episodes, in which Ms. Taylor whips into shape a young California couple, Michelle and Shawn Aughe, was shown on Lifetime on Thursday. 
''The Fairy Jobmother'' isn't the only newcomer to a genre that might be thought of as reality TV, recession-style. Starting on Saturday, an eight-part series on the cable channel WEtv called ''Downsized'' will introduce audiences to the Bruces of Arizona, whom the network is calling a ''modern-day Brady Bunch.'' This once-affluent family, which includes seven children from the parents' previous marriages, will be seen fighting economic deprivation via a broad range of strategies, including Dumpster diving and searching for change under the sofa pillows. With two houses in foreclosure thanks to the father's collapsing contracting business and a real chance that the Bruces may not make the next month's rent, it's goodbye to cheerleading camp, hello to rolling pennies.
Reality shows across the board have been forced to acknowledge the dismal state of the economy. But these two take direct aim at the issue of unemployment, and they propose very different approaches to hard times.
For the family in ''Downsized'' the key, at least in the first episode, is small-bore economies (shorter showers, do-it-yourself haircuts) and pulling up bootstraps, even if it means rooting among dirty diapers in search of recyclables. For the ''Fairy Jobmother'' families -- a different one each week -- the key is finding some sort of employment, even a volunteer position, on the theory that who knows when an unpaid job might lead to a paid one.
Despite the different strategies the two series have both found homes on networks geared to women. (WE's offerings include ''Bridezillas'' and ''Amazing Wedding Cakes''; Lifetime has shows like ''Drop Dead Diva'' and ''Cook Yourself Thin.'') And this placement, the shows' creators agree, has considerable impact on how their stories are told.
''Being on this network insures that we concentrate on the emotional stories, that is to say, on how unemployment feels for the whole family, not just for the breadwinner,'' said Stephen Lambert, who is the creator and executive producer of ''The Fairy Jobmother.'' ''We focus, for example, on the impact of unemployment on the marriage.''
''This show is about families and the stress of being unemployed,'' he said. ''With unemployment it's easy for a family to become dysfunctional. Obviously the issue concerns everyone, but when you're talking about the worries involved, a women's network feels like a slightly more appropriate home.''
Jennifer Davidson, an executive producer for Pie Town Productions, the company that created ''Downsized'' for WEtv, would agree.
''Female viewers are interested in relationships and in stories,'' Ms. Davidson said. ''So that's what we concentrate on. We focus on family drama and on family dynamics, like the relationships between the children and the relationship between the children and their parents.
''For example we examined the relationship between the two stepsisters, one of whom gets a car from her well-to-do mother and one of whom doesn't. And we explored how the girls deal with the idea that some people get things and others don't.''
In Ms. Davidson's opinion the Bruces were an ideal vehicle for exploring such personal and domestic issues.
''We wanted to do a show that showed the total life shift that comes with economic problems,'' she said. ''But we didn't want to be preachy or depressing. We wanted to look at one specific family, partly because smaller stories are so compelling. We wanted to focus on the idea of family. And when we found the Bruces, we realized right away that they were it. This family was really engaging, and they had so much to say.
''These are interesting people with interesting stories and different personalities, all of which is very compelling. Everyone is feeling some economic pinch these days, and how that affects families and relationships makes for great stories.''
Both shows are being promoted via off-screen gimmicks. For ''Downsized'' it's a ''Do You Need to Downsize?'' quiz on WEtv.com. For ''The Fairy Jobmother'' it's an event Lifetime called a Career Kickstart Boot Camp, held in Union Square, at which Ms. Taylor and others led resume workshops and offered job-hunting tips.
At a moment when nearly 15 million Americans are jobless and the national unemployment rate is stagnant at 9.6 percent, skeptics might wonder whether shows like ''Downsized'' and ''The Fairy Godmother'' ignore underlying social and economic problems and suggest that the country's current woes can be addressed by a spiffy resume (''The Fairy Jobmother'') or selling a beloved baseball glove (''Downsized'').
''There may well be people who do everything right and still can't find a job,'' said Ms. Taylor, who was once described by The Guardian as the ''supernanny for the unemployed.'' ''I never say the problem can be fixed. But I give people the tools. Plus, where's the harm in trying something new? And if just one person follows my tips, it's a wonderful thing.''
As for whether the subjects of these shows might be seen as responsible for their predicaments -- not long ago the Bruces were earning $1.5 million a year -- Ms. Davidson said, ''They may have made some poor choices, but that's not the whole story.''
Could it be argued that shows like these give only part of a much bigger picture? ''You can't stuff everything into every show,'' Mr. Lambert said in response to that concern. ''Every program doesn't have to cover all the wrongs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Whitney Rumsey, left, part of the family in ''Downsized,'' sees what she can find in a trash bin. Above, Michelle Aughe, left, with Hayley Taylor in ''The Fairy Jobmother.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WETV
 CAROL KAELSON / LIFETIME TELEVISION.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); FORECLOSURE (63%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



871 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: A Refuge Lives On, As a Condo

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
AS the city's housing market soared over the last decade, many abandoned buildings and old factories were developed into condominiums. Few of those conversions, however, have as rich a history as the condo at 320 Washington Avenue in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, which was built in 1851 as the home of the Brooklyn Society for the Relief of Respectable Aged Indigent Females.
The 4.5-story building, known more popularly as the Graham Home for Old Ladies, was the creation of John B. Graham, an apparently generous 19th-century lawyer who financed the living quarters ''in consequence of his sympathy with the indigent gentlewomen who had, by previous culture and refinement, been unfitted to accept willingly the public asylum provided by the state,'' according to the Clinton Hill Historic District Designation Report of 1981. 
Back in the 1800s, to be accepted as a resident, ''a lady had to be over 60 and bring satisfactory testimonials of the propriety of her conduct and the respectability of her character,'' according to an article in The Fort Greene Association Newsletter, published in 2001, the year the building was converted into 25 condos, ''and come provided with a good bed and furniture for her room.''
For more than a century after its founding, the Graham Home continued to provide shelter for dozens of women, who held annual fairs, according to news articles in The Brooklyn Daily Eagle. In one, it described ''delicate and artistic pieces of hand work, dainty shawls and cushions and hundreds of other things so dear to the feminine heart.'' All these, it told readers, were available at the fair, ''in profusion.''
But by the 1980s, there was another kind of lady residing in the building, which by then had become the Bull Shippers Plaza Motor Inn. These were ''ladies by the hour who brought only scanty-panty testimonials of propriety,'' according to the 2001 Fort Greene Newsletter article.
After the Bull Shippers went out of business, the city took over the property and turned it into a single-room occupancy hotel, which soon became a magnet for crime, according to residents of the neighborhood and newspaper accounts.
A succession of developers then bought the building, but it remained empty through most of the 1990s, and its original charm as a Italianate brick building was long obscured by dilapidation. While it stood abandoned, the building appeared to be something of a haunted house to neighbors. It was also a large canvas for graffiti, one of them by a famous artist known as MERZ.
Then, in 2000, the BRP Development Corporation bought the property and began renovations that restored the original facade and details like the stone lintels around the second- and third-floor windows, according to the developer. A plaque that reads, ''The Graham Home for Old Ladies'' was attached to the building, above the front door, and current residents seem to relish the name. (The condominium board president, Don E. Harrison, refers to his neighbors as ''the old ladies,'' regardless of their age.) An elegant circular driveway sets the building apart from the others on Washington Avenue, in a neighborhood that has undergone a significant economic renaissance over the last decade, with the Graham Home one of the first condominiums to arrive on the scene.
The developer said that all 25 condos sold out when they went on the market in 2002. One of the first residents, Michael Schober, is the building's unofficial historian; he became fascinated with the story of the home and filled a binder with news articles dating to the mid-1800s.
Now a first-floor condo, with three bedrooms, two bathrooms and 1,314 square feet of space, is on the market. Like 11 other apartments in the building, it comes with a parking space. In the listing on the Corcoran Group's Web site, the asking price is $849,000, down from $869,000 in August.
Nichole R. Thompson-Adams, the broker on the listing and a longtime resident of Clinton Hill, whose son would call the abandoned residence ''the spooky building'' when they walked by, said the renovation and revival of the Graham Home for Old Ladies ''seemed to restore a little bit of the soul of the neighborhood.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A report in the Big Deal column this weekend, about a home for elderly women in Brooklyn that was converted to condominiums, misstates the surname of the president of the condominium board. He is Don E. Harrison, not Harris. Because of an editing error, the article also misstates the number of apartments that include parking spaces. It is 12, not 13.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: No. 320 Washington Avenue in Brooklyn as it appeared in the 19th century, left, the mid-'80s, above, and today. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BROOKLYN DAILY EAGLE
DIANNE HAUCK-JOHNSON
 CONSTANTIN BOCA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CELEBRITIES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



872 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: How the Banks Put the Economy Underwater

BYLINE: By YVES SMITH. 
Yves Smith is the author of the blog Naked Capitalism and ''Econned: How Unenlightened Self-Interest Undermined Democracy and Corrupted Capitalism.''

 BODY:
IN Congressional hearings last week, Obama administration officials acknowledged that uncertainty over foreclosures could delay the recovery of the housing market. The implications for the economy are serious. For instance, the International Monetary Fund found that the persistently high unemployment in the United States is largely the result of foreclosures and underwater mortgages, rather than widely cited causes like mismatches between job requirements and worker skills.
This chapter of the financial crisis is a self-inflicted wound. The major banks and their agents have for years taken shortcuts with their mortgage securitization documents -- and not due to a momentary lack of attention, but as part of a systematic approach to save money and increase profits. The result can be seen in the stream of reports of colossal foreclosure mistakes: multiple banks foreclosing on the same borrower; banks trying to seize the homes of people who never had a mortgage or who had already entered into a refinancing program.
Banks are claiming that these are just accidents. But suppose that while absent-mindedly paying a bill, you wrote a check from a bank account that you had already closed. No one would have much sympathy with excuses that you were in a hurry and didn't mean to do it, and it really was just a technicality. 
The most visible symptoms of cutting corners have come up in the foreclosure process, but the roots lie much deeper. As has been widely documented in recent weeks, to speed up foreclosures, some banks hired low-level workers, including hair stylists and teenagers, to sign or simply stamp documents like affidavits -- a job known as being a ''robo-signer.''
Such documents were improper, since the person signing an affidavit is attesting that he has personal knowledge of the matters at issue, which was clearly impossible for people simply stamping hundreds of documents a day. As a result, several major financial firms froze foreclosures in many states, and attorneys general in all 50 states started an investigation.
However, the problems in the mortgage securitization market run much wider and deeper than robo-signing, and started much earlier than the foreclosure process.
When mortgage securitization took off in the 1980s, the contracts to govern these transactions were written carefully to satisfy not just well-settled, state-based real estate law, but other state and federal considerations. These included each state's Uniform Commercial Code, which governed ''secured'' transactions that involve property with loans against them, and state trust law, since the packaged loans are put into a trust to protect investors. On the federal side, these deals needed to satisfy securities agencies and the Internal Revenue Service.
This process worked well enough until roughly 2004, when the volume of transactions exploded. Fee-hungry bankers broke the origination end of the machine. One problem is well known: many lenders ceased to be concerned about the quality of the loans they were creating, since if they turned bad, someone else (the investors in the securities) would suffer.
A second, potentially more significant, failure lay in how the rush to speed up the securitization process trampled traditional property rights protections for mortgages.
The procedures stipulated for these securitizations are labor-intensive. Each loan has to be signed over several times, first by the originator, then by typically at least two other parties, before it gets to the trust, ''endorsed'' the same way you might endorse a check to another party. In general, this process has to be completed within 90 days after a trust is closed.
Evidence is mounting that these requirements were widely ignored. Judges are noticing: more are finding that banks cannot prove that they have the standing to foreclose on the properties that were bundled into securities. If this were a mere procedural problem, the banks could foreclose once they marshaled their evidence. But banks who are challenged in many cases do not resume these foreclosures, indicating that their lapses go well beyond minor paperwork.
Increasingly, homeowners being foreclosed on are correctly demanding that servicers prove that the trust that is trying to foreclose actually has the right to do so. Problems with the mishandling of the loans have been compounded by the Mortgage Electronic Registration System, an electronic lien-registry service that was set up by the banks. While a standardized, centralized database was a good idea in theory, MERS has been widely accused of sloppy practices and is increasingly facing legal challenges.
As a result, investors are becoming concerned that the value of their securities will suffer if it becomes difficult and costly to foreclose; this uncertainty in turn puts a cloud over the value of mortgage-backed securities, which are the biggest asset class in the world.
Other serious abuses are coming to light. Consider a company called Lender Processing Services, which acts as a middleman for mortgage servicers and says it oversees more than half the foreclosures in the United States. To assist foreclosure law firms in its network, a subsidiary of the company offered a menu of services it provided for a fee.
The list showed prices for ''creating'' -- that is, conjuring from thin air -- various documents that the trust owning the loan should already have on hand. The firm even offered to create a ''collateral file,'' which contained all the documents needed to establish ownership of a particular real estate loan. Equipped with a collateral file, you could likely persuade a court that you were entitled to foreclose on a house even if you had never owned the loan.
That there was even a market for such fabricated documents among the law firms involved in foreclosures shows just how hard it is going to be to fix the problems caused by the lapses of the mortgage boom. No one would resort to such dubious behavior if there were an easier remedy.
The banks and other players in the securitization industry now seem to be looking to Congress to snap its fingers to make the whole problem go away, preferably with a law that relieves them of liability for their bad behavior. But any such legislative fiat would bulldoze regions of state laws on real estate and trusts, not to mention the Uniform Commercial Code. A challenge on constitutional grounds would be inevitable.
Asking for Congress's help would also require the banks to tacitly admit that they routinely broke their own contracts and made misrepresentations to investors in their Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Would Congress dare shield them from well-deserved litigation when the banks themselves use every minor customer deviation from incomprehensible contracts as an excuse to charge a fee?
There are alternatives. One measure that both homeowners and investors in mortgage-backed securities would probably support is a process for major principal modifications for viable borrowers; that is, to forgive a portion of their debt and lower their monthly payments. This could come about through either coordinated state action or a state-federal effort.
The large banks, no doubt, would resist; they would be forced to write down the mortgage exposures they carry on their books, which some banking experts contend would force them back into the Troubled Asset Relief Program. However, allowing significant principal modifications would stem the flood of foreclosures and reduce uncertainty about the housing market and mortgage securities, giving the authorities time to devise approaches to the messy problems of clouded titles and faulty loan conveyance.
The people who so carefully designed the mortgage securitization process unwittingly devised a costly trap for people who ran roughshod over their handiwork. The trap has closed -- and unless the mortgage finance industry agrees to a sensible way out of it, the entire economy will be the victim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SECURITIZATION (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL LAW (75%); UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



873 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: The Grand Old Plot Against the Tea Party

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
ONE dirty little secret of the 2010 election is that it won't be a political tragedy for Democrats if a Tea Party icon like Sharron Angle or Joe Miller ends up in the United States Senate. Angle, now synonymous with racist ads sliming Hispanics, and Miller, already on record threatening a government shutdown, are fired up and ready to go as symbols of G.O.P. extremism for 2012 and beyond.
What's not so secret is that some Republicans will be just as happy if some of these characters lose, and for the same reason.
But whatever Tuesday's results, this much is certain: The Tea Party's hopes for actually affecting change in Washington will start being dashed the morning after. The ordinary Americans in this movement lack the numbers and financial clout to muscle their way into the back rooms of Republican power no matter how well their candidates perform. 
Trent Lott, the former Senate leader and current top-dog lobbyist, gave away the game in July. ''We don't need a lot of Jim DeMint disciples,'' he said, referring to the South Carolina senator who is the Tea Party's Capitol Hill patron saint. ''As soon as they get here, we need to co-opt them.'' It's the players who wrote the checks for the G.O.P. surge, not those earnest folk in tri-corner hats, who plan to run the table in the next corporate takeover of Washington. Though Tom DeLay may now be on trial for corruption in Texas, the spirit of his K Street lives on in a Lott client list that includes Northrop Grumman and Goldman Sachs.
Karl Rove outed the Republican elites' contempt for Tea Partiers in the campaign's final stretch. Much as Barack Obama thought he was safe soliloquizing about angry white Middle Americans clinging to ''guns or religion'' at a San Francisco fund-raiser in 2008, so Rove now parades his disdain for the same constituency when speaking to the European press. This month he told Der Spiegel that Tea Partiers are ''not sophisticated,'' and then scoffed, ''It's not like these people have read the economist Friedrich August von Hayek.'' Given that Glenn Beck has made a cause of putting Hayek's dense 1944 antigovernment treatise ''The Road to Serfdom'' on the best-seller list and Tea Partiers widely claim to have read it, Rove could hardly have been more condescending to ''these people.'' Last week, for added insult, he mocked Sarah Palin's imminent Discovery Channel reality show to London's Daily Telegraph.
This animus has not gone unnoticed among those supposedly less sophisticated conservatives back home. Mike Huckabee, still steamed about Rove's previous put-down of Christine O'Donnell, publicly lamented the Republican establishment's ''elitism'' and ''country club attitude.'' This country club elite, he said, is happy for Tea Partiers to put up signs, work the phones and make ''those pesky little trips'' door-to-door that it finds a frightful inconvenience. But the members won't let the hoi polloi dine with them in the club's ''main dining room'' -- any more than David H. Koch, the billionaire sugar daddy of the Republican right, will invite O'Donnell into his box at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center to take in ''The Nutcracker.''
The main dining room remains reserved for Koch's fellow oil barons, Lott's clients, the corporate contributors (known and anonymous) to groups like Rove's American Crossroads, and, of course, the large coterie of special interests underwriting John Boehner, the presumptive next speaker of the House. Boehner is the largest House recipient of Wall Street money this year -- much of it from financial institutions bailed out by TARP.
His Senate counterpart, Mitch McConnell, will be certain to stop any Tea Party hillbillies from disrupting his chapter of the club (as he tried to stop Rand Paul in his own state's G.O.P. primary). McConnell's pets in his chamber's freshman G.O.P. class will instead be old-school conservatives like Dan Coats (of Indiana), Rob Portman (of Ohio) and, if he squeaks in, Pat Toomey (of Pennsylvania). The first two are formerlobbyists; Toomey ran the corporate interest group, the Club for Growth. They can be counted on to execute an efficient distribution of corporate favors and pork after they make their latest swing through Capitol Hill's revolving door.
What the Tea Party ostensibly wants most -- less government spending and smaller federal deficits -- is not remotely happening on the country club G.O.P.'s watch. The elites have no serious plans to cut anything except taxes and regulation of their favored industries. The party's principal 2010 campaign document, its ''Pledge to America,'' doesn't vow to cut even earmarks -- which barely amount to a rounding error in the federal budget anyway. Boehner has also proposed a return to pre-crash 2008 levels in ''nonsecurity'' discretionary spending -- another mere bagatelle ($105 billion) next to the current $1.3 trillion deficit. And that won't be happening either, once the actual cuts in departments like Education, Transportation and Interior are specified to their constituencies.
Perhaps the campaign's most telling exchange took place on Fox News two weeks ago, when the Tea Party-embracing Senate candidate in California, Carly Fiorina, was asked seven times by Chris Wallace to name ''one single entitlement expenditure you're willing to cut'' in order ''to extend all the Bush tax cuts, which would add 4 trillion to the deficit.'' She never did. At least Angle and Paul have been honest about what they'd slash if in power -- respectively Social Security and defense, where the big government spending actually resides.
That's not happening either. McConnell has explained his only real priority for the new Congress with admirable candor. ''The single most important thing we want to achieve,'' he said, ''is for President Obama to be a one-term president.'' Any assault on Social Security would defeat that goal, and a serious shake-up of the Pentagon budget would alienate the neoconservative ideologues and military contractors who are far more important to the G.O.P. establishment than the ''don't tread on me'' crowd.
For sure, the Republican elites found the Tea Party invaluable on the way to this Election Day. And not merely, as Huckabee has it, because they wanted its foot soldiers. What made the Tea Party most useful was that its loud populist message gave the G.O.P. just the cover it needed both to camouflage its corporate patrons and to rebrand itself as a party miraculously antithetical to the despised G.O.P. that gave us George W. Bush and record deficits only yesterday.
Rupert Murdoch's Fox News and Wall Street Journal have been arduous in promoting and inflating Tea Party events and celebrities to this propagandistic end. The more the Tea Party looks as if it's calling the shots in the G.O.P., the easier it is to distract attention from those who are actually calling them -- namely, those who've cashed in and cashed out as ordinary Americans lost their jobs, homes and 401(k)'s. Typical of this smokescreen is a new book titled ''Mad as Hell,'' published this fall by a Murdoch imprint. In it, the pollsters Scott Rasmussen and Douglas Schoen make the case, as they recently put it in Politico, that the Tea Party is ''the most powerful and potent force in America.''
They are expert at producing poll numbers to bear that out. By counting those with friends and family in the movement, Rasmussen has calculated that 29 percent of Americans are ''tied to'' the Tea Party. (If you factor in six degrees of Kevin Bacon, the number would surely double.) But cooler empirical data reveal the truth known by the G.O.P. establishment: An August CNN poll found that 2 percent of Americans consider themselves active members of the Tea Party.
That result was confirmed last weekend by The Washington Post, which published the fruits of its months-long effort to contact every Tea Party group in the country. To this end, it enlisted the help of Tea Party Patriots, the only Tea Party umbrella group that actually can claim to be a spontaneous, bottom-up, grass roots organization rather than a front for the same old fat cats of the Republican right, from the Koch brothers to Dick Armey's FreedomWorks. Tea Party Patriots has claimed anywhere from 2,300 to nearly 3,000 local affiliates, but even with its assistance, The Post could verify a total of only 647 Tea Party groups nationwide. Most had fewer than 50 members. The median amount of money each group had raised in 2010 was $800, nowhere near the entry fee for the country club.
But those Americans, like all the others on the short end of the 2008 crash, have reason to be mad as hell. And their numbers will surely grow once the Republican establishment's panacea of tax cuts proves as ineffectual at creating jobs, saving homes and cutting deficits as the half-measures of the Obama White House and the Democratic Congress. The tempest, however, will not be contained within the tiny Tea Party but will instead overrun the Republican Party itself, where Palin, with Murdoch and Beck at her back, waits in the wings to ''take back America'' not just from Obama but from the G.O.P. country club elites now mocking her. By then -- after another two years of political gridlock and economic sclerosis -- the equally disillusioned right and left may have a showdown that makes this election year look as benign as Woodstock.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (53%); DISCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JIM DEMINT (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GLENN BECK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



874 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: The Final Days Before the Midterms

 BODY:
To the Editor:
On Tuesday we will hold midterm elections. Some commentators say that finally we will be finished with this unending, almost unbearable, destructive and divisive campaign. But the reality is that this campaign has been going on since 2008 and now will go on until 2012 and continue and continue.
We Americans have become practitioners of the eternal campaign and dysfunctional government. Our politicians spend most of their time fund-raising and working for re-election while their responsibility -- good government -- remains unattended to. 
We acknowledge the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. How about the American people's right to good government?
President Obama said this past week, ''Don't let me down.'' We should say to all public officials, including the president: ''Do not let the American people down.''
Now if Washington can just get to work on governing and give us some rest from campaigning.
Sheldon Zimmerman East Hampton, N.Y., Oct. 27, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Coalition That Vaulted Democrats Into Power Has Frayed, Poll Finds'' (front page, Oct. 28):
It seems a century since November 2008, when we debated if we had become a ''center-left'' country; we believed that Sarah Palin would fade from the headlines; we had not heard of Glenn Beck, Obamacare, death panels, birthers and the Tea Party; and all the talk was Obama, Obama, Obama.
What happened?
Was it the ''vast right-wing conspiracy,'' of which Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke during President Clinton's second term?
Or was it President Obama?
Faced with three urgent issues -- the economy, Iraq and Afghanistan -- he chose to squander critical time and political capital in a catastrophic battle over health care -- whose town hall meetings may have helped bring about the Tea Party.
Bill Clinton's campaign advisers stressed, ''It's the economy, stupid,'' but in a far worse crisis President Obama failed to focus on the economy. He has shown a lack of experience, toughness and leadership.
Experts say that revolutions take place when ''rising expectations'' fail to materialize. And so from a country that was probably not center-left but center-right has come the Tea Party revolt.
James Adler Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 28, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Can't Keep a Bad Idea Down,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Oct. 27):
Politics has always had its fair share of hucksters promoting snake oil -- tax cuts, a freeze on spending -- as the quick remedy for all that ails the country.
But let's not let the voters off the hook -- the ones who never challenge the hucksters' claims, who have shockingly short memories and equally shocking appetites for fast and dubious cures for the most complicated problems.
It seems they're only too happy to lap up the very snake oil that made them sick in the first place.
Cynthia Johnson Brooklyn, Oct. 28, 2010
To the Editor:
''Secret Money in Iowa'' (editorial, Oct. 27) details several examples in which tax-exempt political organizations have sponsored ads featuring downright false statements. By granting these organizations tax-exempt status, the American public is, by proxy, paying for these untruths.
I congratulate the Connecticut television station that refused to run one of these false ads. I wish that more media outlets would use their fact-checking ability and emulate that station.
Stuart Kronish Highland Park, Ill., Oct. 27, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Democrats Try to Revive Female Voters' Enthusiasm'' (news article, Oct. 22):
Apparently some women who backed Barack Obama and the Democrats in 2008 now lack enthusiasm and might not vote in the coming election.
Those who are disheartened should ask themselves a simple question: Do I really think that I or my cause will be better off if the Republicans take over the House, the Senate and more state offices? I find it hard to believe that Obama-backing, Democratic-leaning women could think the answer is ''yes.''
Voting is about making a choice. Choosing not to vote helps the candidates you would not support. Why would any sensible person do that?
Roger Dominowski Oak Park, Ill., Oct. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
I lament the passing of the Republican Party that I knew -- the one using facts, vision and determination to lead. Today's Republican Party uses anger, anxiety and fear effectively.
Surveys show that it works -- nearly 80 percent of those surveyed in a Pew Research Center poll earlier this year have lost faith in government. Many cannot see the great country and amazing democracy we live in because of pervasive negativity.
I miss the upbeat, common-sense arguments of the old Republican Party. This new strategy reeks of desperation and self-righteousness. No matter on what side of the aisle one sits, angry and fearful politics harms us all in the end.
Stephen Arnsdorff Chattanooga, Tenn., Oct. 25, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''No Second Thoughts,'' by David Brooks (column, Oct. 26):
The main reason that Democrats are down in the polls is that, tragically, they are being punished for precisely those times they showed leadership, by making unpopular but necessary choices: the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Afghanistan surge and health care reform.
Why? Americans live in Credit Card World, where sacrifice is a virtue we hope to see in our grandchildren. Only in Credit Card World can Americans insist on tax cuts and Medicare increases; cheap imported goods and no outsourcing; and affordable, quality health care with no rationing.
Cowed by the Tea Party, partisan bloggers and Credit Card World voters, the 2011 Congress -- whether Republican or Democratic -- will no doubt kick the can further down the road. And we Americans will be left with plenty of second thoughts.
Amir Karger Sharon, Mass., Oct. 26, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LORENZO PETRANTONI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CONSPIRACY (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (57%); GLENN BECK (54%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



875 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; ELECTION 2010; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: The Charge That Obama Can't Shake

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the Boston-area home of a wealthy hospital executive one Saturday evening this month, President Obama departed from his usual campaign stump speech and offered an explanation as to why Democrats were seemingly doing so poorly this election season. Voters, he said, just aren't thinking straight.
''Part of the reason that our politics seems so tough right now, and facts and science and argument does not seem to be winning the day all the time, is because we're hard-wired not to always think clearly when we're scared,'' he told a roomful of doctors who chipped in at least $15,200 each to Democratic coffers. ''And the country is scared, and they have good reason to be.''
The notion that voters would reject Democrats only because they don't understand the facts prompted a round of recriminations -- ''Obama the snob,'' read the headline on a Washington Post column by Michael Gerson, the former speechwriter for President George W. Bush -- and fueled the underlying argument of the campaign that ends Tuesday. For all the discussion of health care and spending and jobs, at the core of the nation's debate this fall has been the battle of elitism. 
Mr. Obama's remark that autumn evening played into a perception promoted by his critics that he is a Harvard-educated millionaire elitist who is sure that he knows best and thinks that those who disagree just aren't in their right minds. Never mind that Mr. Obama was raised in less exalted circumstances by a single mother who he said once needed food stamps. Or that although he went to private school, he took years to pay off his college loans. Something about Mr. Obama's cerebral confidence has made him into a symbol of something he never used to be.
As the elitism war has raged this fall, the president has fought back. His closing argument, too, centered on the theme. In the last weeks of the campaign, he hammered away at the gusher of secret money poured in by special interests to influence the outcome of the elections, arguing in effect that the elites of Wall Street and corporate America were trying to hoodwink everyday voters into casting ballots against their own interests to benefit the powerful. The other side's central economic plan, he tells virtually every audience, is to extend tax cuts for the rich.
''The elitism argument is kind of a false one because the president talks about people's economic interests and middle-class families,'' said Anita Dunn, a Democratic strategist who advises Mr. Obama. ''And those who are supporting Republican candidates right now -- because they think they'll look out for their interests -- are going to be very surprised when they find out what the corporate sponsorship of that party is buying.''
But Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist, said Mr. Obama had not connected with popular discontent. ''A lot of people have never been to Washington or New York, and they feel people there are so out of touch,'' he said. ''When you're unemployed and you're sitting in your living room and you hear the president say, 'You don't understand what the problems really are -- you're just scared,' that makes people really, really angry.''
None of this is new, of course. The parties have been jockeying to get on the right side of the elitism argument for generations. Think back to Richard Nixon's affiliation with the ''silent majority'' or Al Gore's charge for ''the people, not the powerful.''
Mr. Bush regularly described himself to audiences as a C student (without mentioning that he attended Yale and Harvard). Just two years ago, Mr. Obama tried to explain away his comment about ''bitter'' working-class Americans who ''cling to guns or religion,'' while his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain, could not remember how many homes he owned.
But the debate has taken on particular resonance in a time of economic distress, underscoring the socioeconomic divide in America amid sky-high unemployment and deficit spending. Michelle Obama's summer vacation at a five-star Spanish resort might not have generated quite the same heat in a different environment. And if Mr. Obama managed to deflect it in 2008, he seems to be having more trouble this time as the leader of the party in power.
''It didn't hurt him much two years ago -- or not as much as we wished it would have,'' said Mark Salter, a longtime McCain adviser who worked on the campaign. But ''he'd probably be wise to keep the sociology lectures to himself.''
''Not too many voters like to be told there's something wrong with them,'' Mr. Salter said.
The appeal to antielitism has played out throughout the country this fall. In Delaware, Christine O'Donnell, the Republican Senate candidate, started one television advertisement this way: ''I didn't go to Yale. I didn't inherit millions like my opponent.''
The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee issued a sarcastic statement last week ''extending congratulations'' to ''multimillionaire John Raese,'' the Republican Senate candidate in West Virginia, after authorities granted permission to build a glass conservatory on his Palm Beach, Fla., property.
As Jacob Weisberg documented in Slate, ''elitist'' has become one of the favorite attack lines of the surging Republican campaign effort this year, from Kentucky, where the Senate candidate Rand Paul called Mr. Obama ''a liberal elitist,'' to California, where the Senate candidate Carly Fiorina warned that the American Dream is endangered by ''elitists'' in government.
By elitist, politicians do not mean simply those with money, since Ms. Fiorina is a wealthy former corporate chief executive herself, but those who control the state and the culture, including news media outfits like The New York Times. (Katie Couric of CBS News, the bete noire of Sarah Palin supporters, probably did not help last week when she talked to the Daily Beast about visiting ''the great unwashed middle of the country'' in the Midwest; she later said she meant overlooked people who are politically in the middle.)
Elitist or not, the thesis of Mr. Obama's remarks in Boston does reflect a certain frustration on the part of the president and his team that, in their view, the public might not be listening. Rather than entertaining the possibility that the program they have pursued is genuinely and even legitimately unpopular, the White House and its allies have concluded that their political troubles amount to mainly a message and image problem.
Former President Bill Clinton has a riff in his standard speech as he campaigns for Democrats in which he mocks voters for knowing more about their local college football team statistics than they do about the issues that will determine the future of the country. ''Don't bother us with facts; we've got our minds made up,'' he said in Michigan last week, mimicking such voters.
But if they understood the facts, he continued, they would naturally vote Democratic. ''If it's a choice and we're thinking, he wins big and America wins big,'' Mr. Clinton told a crowd in Battle Creek, pointing to Representative Mark Schauer, an endangered first-term Democrat.
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, who was lambasted in television ads as ''another rich liberal elitist'' during the 2004 presidential campaign, used similar language in his introduction of Mr. Obama at the Boston fund-raiser two weeks ago. ''Facts, science, truth seem to be significantly absent from what we call our political dialogue,'' he said.
Advisers like Ms. Dunn said that's not elitism, but a reasonable reaction to what they call a Republican fear-based campaign. ''The president I don't think has an elitist bone in his body,'' she said. ''The fact that Republicans claim that we're the party of elitism doesn't mean that it's true or that everyone believes it.''
In two more days, voters will finally register what they're thinking. Clearly or not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PICK ONE: Barack Obama is either a snob or misunderstood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK1)
 HEAR ME?: As the elitism war has raged this fall, the president has fought back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); FAMILY (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



876 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: The New Momism

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
They make for strange bedfellows, Sarah Palin, leading her pack of ''mama grizzlies,'' and Michelle Obama, now touring the country on behalf of beleaguered, largely female Democratic candidates as the self-described ''mom in chief.'' The former beauty-pageant flutist dead set on undoing health care reform and the working-class Harvard law grad intent on consolidating her husband's legislative triumphs couldn't be further apart in their political goals or in their personal histories. But each is doing the mom thing -- big time -- tapping a vein of sentiment and belief, practicing a special form of political sympathetic magic, hoping clearly that by invoking the image, inveighing the glorious beloved power of all that's maternal, they will warm and rally the hearts of voters enough to get them to the polls and determine the outcome of the midterm elections. 
There was a time when words like ''mom'' or ''mama'' weren't necessarily associated with the traits needed for good political judgment or the trappings of power. But it has been quite a while now -- perhaps since the grass-roots activist Patty Murray got herself elected to the U.S. Senate in 1992 as ''just a mom in tennis shoes'' -- that the mom image has been expanded from angel of the hearth to political maverick. In an age when ''the mommy brain'' is now considered a greatly superior organ -- uniquely suited for multitasking, specialty-schooled in the challenges of diplomacy and budgeting, grounded in the can-do here and now rather than in the hopelessly abstract or esoteric -- being a mom (the ''just'' has been dropped) is now frequently spun as a prime career asset, particularly in the world of politics.
This new momism -- which bears no resemblance whatsoever to the nefarious force of cultural castration Philip Wylie named in his 1942 book, ''Generation of Vipers'' -- has found avid cheerleaders for a number of years in the world of mommy blogs and books like Katherine Ellison's ''The Mommy Brain: How Motherhood Makes Us Smarter.'' This year, it's showing up in midterm races involving women all over the country. ''Mom'' -- in both Democratic- and Republican-speak -- is political shorthand now for good common sense and authenticity, an antidote to the effete sensibilities of the so-called Washington elite. As in: ''I'm not a career politician. I'm a mother and a grandmother,'' the Nevada Senate candidate Sharron Angle told Harry Reid in their only debate, when she told him to ''man up'' on Social Security. Unlike the eggheads running our government, moms have an instinctive sense of danger, as bears do when someone's coming ''to do something adverse towards their cubs,'' as Palin put it in her ''Mama Grizzlies'' video this past summer (''Moms kinda just know when something's wrong'').
Being a mom is synonymous with being one of the people. No matter who you are, no matter what you've lived or how much money you've made, if you're a mom, you are simple; you are decent; you are real. ''She Has Lived It,'' proclaimed a TV ad campaign for Linda McMahon, the enormously wealthy World Wrestling Entertainment co-founder running for an open Senate seat who has posted a special online appeal directly to ''the moms across Connecticut.'' You don't even have to be a mother to find a place in the new momism, which is, after all, at base about a certain idea of womanhood; woman as earthy, concrete, with her view of the world bound by personal experience -- by ''immanence,'' as Simone de Beauvoir once put it -- and not by professional experience or abstract learning.
That's why the Delaware Senate candidate Christine O'Donnell -- not a mother -- can be referred to as a ''mama grizzly,'' too. That's also why Michelle Obama is on the campaign trail not as an Ivy League-educated lawyer and a former hospital executive but as a woman whose critical faculties are primarily bound up in protecting her kids: ''When I think about the issues facing our nation, I think about what it means for my girls,'' she says in her stump speech. A mom knows what she knows; she rules from, and is ruled by, her gut.
The whole mom-shtick is clearly meant, in part, to domesticate those whose very real power or wealth or celebrity or bizarre pro-wrestling-ring antics might be a turnoff for men and women alike. It's a least-common-denominator term of group identification obviously intended to catch the fancy of women whose votes, often enough, decide elections. Historically, men voted at higher rates than women. But in the 1980 presidential election, that changed, and women have predominated as voters ever since. In 2008, their numbers swelled by a wave of first-time registrations, women voted overwhelmingly to elect Barack Obama. Yet this year, multiple surveys have shown, women may be disproportionately sitting out the midterms. Despite their very pressing economic worries and their acute awareness of the impact of the recession upon their families, they appear far less likely than men to be thinking about addressing their domestic woes in political terms. A Gallup poll in September found that only 31 percent of women -- compared with 45 percent of men -- said they had given much thought to the midterm elections. A Bloomberg poll of likely voters in October found women far less likely than men to believe that the election was of great importance to them. A New York Times/CBS poll found that while men were expressing ''anger'' as they approached the ballot box, women were expressing a ''hopelessness,'' which might keep them at home. Women are more likely to vote for Democrats, which means that this male-female enthusiasm gap may hit that party especially hard.
Momism is a clever strategy in a season of populist rage, its message fine-tuned to attract both the kinds of women who haven't scaled the professional heights of Michelle Obama (or Sarah Palin, for that matter) and those who have: what mother, after all, is in a position to turn down a compliment? Who today would be so churlish as to suggest that child-rearing and home stewardship maybe aren't, in and of themselves, obvious qualifications for public life? A generation's worth of lessons have been learned since 1992, when Hillary Clinton, as candidate for first lady, scorned -- and earned the scorn of -- nonworking mothers with her ''I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies'' comment. This summer, two weeks before Chelsea Clinton's wedding, the secretary of state -- who is the most highly regarded political figure in the Bloomberg poll -- made sure to take time out from a high-pressure Pakistan visit to sit down with Andrea Mitchell and discuss the joys of being the mother of the bride.
Neither party can afford now to take 18 years to figure out how to win the hearts and minds of America's women. They've got to get it right in just a couple of days.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda McMahon campaigning for a Senate seat in Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO)
 GRAPHIC: 8,100,000 more WOMEN than men VOTED for Barack Obama in the 2008 election. (GRAPHIC BY ASSOCIATED PRESS. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH, NOV. 2008.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (73%); MICHELLE OBAMA (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (57%); PATTY MURRAY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



877 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: As China Rises, Wary Neighbors Form Alliances

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER, JIM YARDLEY and MICHAEL WINES; Mark Landler reported from Hanoi, Jim Yardley from New Delhi, and Michael Wines from Beijing.

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- China's military expansion and assertive trade policies have set off jitters across Asia, prompting many of its neighbors to rekindle old alliances and cultivate new ones to better defend their interests against the rising superpower.
A whirl of deal-making and diplomacy, from Tokyo to New Delhi, is giving the United States an opportunity to reassert itself in a region where its eclipse by China has been viewed as inevitable.
President Obama's trip to the region this week, his most extensive as president, will take him to the area's big democracies, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Japan, skirting authoritarian China. Those countries and other neighbors have taken steps, though with varying degrees of candor, to blunt China's assertiveness in the region.
Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India are expected to sign a landmark deal for American military transport aircraft and are discussing the possible sale of jet fighters, which would escalate the Pentagon's defense partnership with India to new heights. Japan and India are courting Southeast Asian nations with trade agreements and talk of a ''circle of democracy.'' Vietnam has a rapidly warming rapport with its old foe, the United States, in large part because its old friend, China, makes broad territorial claims in the South China Sea. 
The deals and alliances are not intended to contain China. But they suggest a palpable shift in the diplomatic landscape, on vivid display as leaders from 18 countries gathered this weekend under the wavelike roof of Hanoi's futuristic convention center, not far from Ho Chi Minh's mausoleum, for a meeting suffused by tensions between China and its neighbors.
China's escalating feud with Japan over another set of islands, in the East China Sea, stole the meeting's headlines on Saturday, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton proposed three-way negotiations to resolve the issue.
Most Asian countries, even as they argue that China will inevitably replace the United States as the top regional power, have grown concerned at how quickly that shift is occurring, and what China the superpower may look like.
China's big trading partners are complaining more loudly that it intervenes too aggressively to keep its currency undervalued. Its recent restrictions on exports of crucial rare earths minerals, first to Japan and then to the United States and Europe, raised the prospect that it may use its dominant positions in some industries as a diplomatic and political weapon.
And its rapid naval expansion, combined with a more strident defense of its claims to disputed territories far off its shores, has persuaded Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and Singapore to reaffirm their enthusiasm for the American security umbrella.
''The most common thing that Asian leaders have said to me in my travels over this last 20 months is, 'Thank you, we're so glad that you're playing an active role in Asia again,' '' Mrs. Clinton said in Hawaii, opening a seven-country tour of Asia that included a last-minute stop in China.
Few of China's neighbors voice their concerns about the country publicly, but analysts and diplomats say they express wariness about the pace of China's military expansion and the severity of its trade policies in private.
''Most of these countries have come to us and said, 'We're really worried about China,' '' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser to President Bill Clinton who is now at the Brookings Institution.
The Obama administration has been quick to capitalize on China's missteps. Where officials used to speak of China as the Asian economic giant, they now speak of India and China as twin giants. And they make clear which one they believe has a closer affinity to the United States.
''India and the United States have never mattered more to each other,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''As the world's two largest democracies, we are united by common interests and common values.''
As Mr. Obama prepares to visit India in his first stop on his tour of Asian democracies, Mr. Singh, India's prime minister, will have just returned from his own grand tour -- with both of them somewhat conspicuously, if at least partly coincidentally, circling China.
None of this seems likely to lead to a cold war-style standoff. China is fully integrated into the global economy, and all of its neighbors are eager to deepen their ties with it. China has fought no wars since a border skirmish with Vietnam three decades ago, and it often emphasizes that it has no intention of projecting power through the use of force.
At the same time, fears that China has become more assertive as it has grown richer are having real consequences.
India is promoting itself throughout the region as a counterweight to China; Japan is settling a dispute with the United States over a Marine air base; the Vietnamese are negotiating a deal to obtain civilian nuclear technology from the United States; and the Americans, who had largely ignored the rest of Asia as they waged wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, see an opportunity to come back in a big way.
In July, for example, Mrs. Clinton reassured Vietnam and the Philippines by announcing that the United States would be willing to help resolve disputes between China and its neighbors over a string of strategically important islands in the South China Sea.
China's foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, reacted furiously, accusing the United States of plotting against it, according to people briefed on the meeting. Mr. Yang went on to note that China was a big country, staring pointedly at the foreign minister of tiny Singapore. Undaunted, Mrs. Clinton not only repeated the American pledge on the South China Sea in Hanoi on Saturday, but expanded it to include the dispute with Japan.
China's rise as an authoritarian power has also revived a sense that democracies should stick together. K. Subrahmanyam, an influential strategic analyst in India, noted that half the world's people now live in democracies and that of the world's six biggest powers, only China has not accepted democracy.
''Today the problem is a rising China that is not democratic and is challenging for the No. 1 position in the world,'' he said.
Indeed, how to deal with China seems to be an abiding preoccupation of Asia's leaders. In Japan, Prime Minister Naoto Kan and Mr. Singh discussed China's booming economy, military expansion and increased territorial assertiveness.
''Prime Minister Kan was keen to understand how India engages China,'' India's foreign secretary, Nirupama Rao, told reporters. ''Our prime minister said it requires developing trust, close engagement and a lot of patience.''
South Korea was deeply frustrated earlier this year when China blocked an explicit international condemnation of North Korea for sinking a South Korean warship, the Cheonan. South Korea accused North Korea of the attack, but China, a historic ally of the North, was unwilling to hold it responsible.
India has watched nervously as China has started building ports in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, extending rail lines toward the border of Nepal, and otherwise seeking to expand its footprint in South Asia.
India's Defense Ministry has sought military contacts with a host of Asian nations while steadily expanding contacts and weapons procurements from the United States. The United States, American officials said, has conducted more exercises in recent years with India than with any other nation.
Mr. Singh's trip was part of his ''Look East'' policy, intended to broaden trade with the rest of Asia. He has said it was not related to any frictions with China, but China is concerned. On Thursday, People's Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, ran an opinion article asking, ''Does India's 'Look East' Policy Mean 'Look to Encircle China'?''
That wary view may well reflect China's reaction to the whole panoply of developments among its neighbors.
''The Chinese perceived the Hanoi meeting as a gang attack on them,'' said Charles Freeman, an expert on Chinese politics and economics at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''There's no question that they have miscalculated their own standing in the region.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, left, with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India on Friday in Hanoi, Vietnam. India is promoting itself in the region as a counterweight to China. (POOL PHOTO BY BARBARA WALTON) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (73%); WEN JIABAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) CHINA (98%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (94%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



878 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; HOLIDAY MOVIES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: Princesses, a Pugilist and a Rooster

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
NOVEMBER
All dates are subject to change.
Wednesday
NE CHANGE RIEN A documentary portrait of the French actress and singer Jeanne Balibar, directed by the gifted Portuguese filmmaker Pedro Costa (''Colossal Youth'').
OUTSIDE THE LAW Three Algerian brothers settle in France following the eruption of anti-colonialist protests at the end of World War II. This French feature by Rachid Bouchareb (''Days of Glory'') attracted right-wing protests at its Cannes premiere in May. With Jamel Debbouze, Roschdy Zem and Sami Bouajila.
Friday
CHERRY Jeffrey Fine wrote and directed this tale of an Ivy League freshman (Kyle Gallner) who gets involved with an older, returning student (Laura Allen) and her aggressive 14-year-old daughter (Britt Robertson). 
CLIENT 9: THE RISE AND FALL OF ELIOT SPITZER From Alex Gibney (''Taxi to the Dark Side''), a documentary on the disgraced former New York governor.
DUE DATE An expectant father (Robert Downey Jr.) hitches a ride with an aspiring actor (Zach Galifianakis) in a desperate attempt to make it across the country before his wife gives birth. Todd Phillips (''The Hangover'') directed; with Michelle Monaghan, Jamie Foxx and Juliette Lewis.
FAIR GAMEDoug Liman directs a thriller based on the autobiography of Valerie Plame (Naomi Watts), the C.I.A. operative whose identity was revealed by a leak to the press. Sean Penn plays her husband, the diplomat Joe Wilson. FOR COLORED GIRLS Thirty-five years after its groundbreaking premiere, Ntozake Shange's theater piece ''For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf'' comes to the movies, as adapted and directed by Tyler Perry. With Janet Jackson, Loretta Devine, Michael Ealy, Kimberly Elise, Omari Hardwick, Hill Harper, Thandie Newton, Phylicia Rashad, Anika Noni Rose, Tessa Thompson, Kerry Washington and Whoopi Goldberg. FOUR LIONS The British political satirist Chris Morris directed and co-wrote (with Jesse Armstrong, Sam Bain and Simon Blackwell) this farce about a bumbling group of English jihadists. With Riz Ahmed, Arsher Ali, Nigel Lindsay, Kayvan Novak and Adeel Akhtar.
GUY AND MADELINE ON A PARK BENCH Shot in black-and-white 16-millimeter, Damien Chazelle's film tries to transplant the sensibility of an MGM musical to a semi-documentary context. The trumpeter Jason Palmer stars as a Boston musician haunted by a lost love (Desiree Garcia).
JEWS AND BASEBALL: AN AMERICAN LOVE STORY Peter Miller's documentary looks at major league players who happened to be Jewish and how they affected American culture. Narrated by Dustin Hoffman, Ron Howard and Larry King.
A MARINE STORY Thrown out of the service because of her sexual orientation, a decorated Marine officer (Dreya Weber) returns to her hometown in the Mojave Desert. Ned Farr (''The Gymnast'') directed.
MEGAMIND A big-brained supervillain (with the voice of Will Ferrell) battles a square-jawed superhero (Brad Pitt) in a 3-D cartoon from DreamWorks Animation. Tina Fey, Jonah Hill and David Cross fill out the supporting voice cast; directed by Tom McGrath.
127 HOURS Pinned under a fallen boulder for five days, a mountain climber (James Franco) reviews his life, searching for the courage and determination he needs to survive. Danny Boyle (''Slumdog Millionaire'') directed, based on a true story. With Clemence Poesy, Amber Tamblyn and Kate Mara.
RED HILL A rookie police officer (Ryan Kwanten) confronts an escaped murderer in a small Australian town in a thriller written and directed by Patrick Hughes.
VIOLET TENDENCIES Mindy Cohn (the sitcom ''The Facts of Life'') stars in a romantic comedy about a woman who loves hanging out with her gay male friends but realizes it isn't helping her marriage prospects. Casper Andreas directed.
Nov. 10
BRUCE CONNER: THE ART OF MONTAGE Two programs of the witty, poetic short films by the pioneering avant-garde filmmaker, assembled from bits and pieces of found footage. Included is the theatrical premiere of his last film, ''Easter Morning.''
MORNING GLORY A self-serious veteran news anchor (Harrison Ford) clashes with his light-weight co-host (Diane Keaton) on a last-place morning show, as a young producer (Rachel McAdams) tries to boost the show's dismal ratings. Roger Michell (''Notting Hill'') directed this comedy; with Patrick Wilson and Jeff Goldblum.
Nov. 12
CON ARTIST The life of the East Village artist Mark Kostabi -- once famous for manufacturing thousands of paintings a year -- as he tries to reclaim his art world reputation. Michael Sladek directed this documentary.
COOL IT The environmentalist Bjorn Lomborg trots the globe in search of economically sound answers to the threat of global warming in a documentary by Ondi Timoner (''We Live in Public'').
DISCO AND ATOMIC WAR How pirated cable television helped Estonians discover the glories of the Western world during the later years of the cold war. A documentary directed by Jaak Kilmi.
EICHMANNThomas Kretschmann (''The Pianist'') stars as the infamous war criminal, making his final confession to an Israeli police officer (Troy Garity) as he awaits his execution. Robert Young directed; with Franka Potente and Stephen Fry.
HELENA FROM THE WEDDING A New Year's Eve party hosted by a pair of newlyweds (Lee Tergesen and Melanie Lynskey) gets out of hand when a beautiful young woman (Gillian Jacobs) arrives as a surprise guest. Joseph Infantolino wrote and directed.
THE MAGICIAN An Australian hit man hires the film student next door to make a documentary about his life. With Scott Ryan and Ben Walker; Mr. Ryan wrote, directed and produced.
NOW & LATER A disgraced banker has a passionate affair with an illegal immigrant in a film inspired by the theories of Wilhelm Reich. He calls her ''Now,'' she calls him ''Later.''Philippe Diaz directed; with Shari Solanis and Keller Wortham.
SHAKE HANDS WITH THE DEVIL Roy Dupuis as Lt. Gen. Romeo Dallaire, a United Nations official struggling to keep a fragile peace in the explosive Rwanda of 1993. Roger Spottiswoode (''Under Fire'') directed; with Deborah Kara Unger and Jean-Hugues Anglade.
SKYLINE Aliens, of the outer-space variety, arrive in Los Angeles in a science-fiction thriller directed by Colin Strause and Greg Strause (''Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem''). With Donald Faison, Eric Balfour, David Zayas, Scottie Thompson and Brittany Daniel.
TINY FURNITURE Armed with a not-so-useful degree in film theory, a 22-year-old (Lena Dunham, who also wrote and directed) reluctantly returns to her mother's loft in TriBeCa, where she does her desperate best to construct a meaningful life.
UNSTOPPABLEDenzel Washington as a veteran train engineer and Chris Pine as an enterprising young conductor do their darnedest to stop a runaway engine nicknamed the Beast as it plows toward a city with a cargo of toxic waste. Tony Scott directed this drama; with Rosario Dawson.
Nov. 17
WILLIAM S. BURROUGHS: A MAN WITHIN Peter Weller narrates a documentary about the colorful author of ''Naked Lunch,'' featuring interviews with John Waters, Patti Smith, Iggy Pop, Gus Van Sant, Genesis Breyer P-Orridge, Sonic Youth, Laurie Anderson, Amiri Baraka, Jello Biafra and David Cronenberg. Directed by Yony Leyser .
Nov. 19
HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS: PART 1 The first half of the final installment of the ''Harry Potter'' series. David Yates directed; with Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Ralph Fiennes, Bill Nighy, John Hurt, Rhys Ifans, Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Imelda Staunton, Jason Isaacs, Miranda Richardson, Warwick Davis, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, Brendan Gleeson, Ciaran Hinds, Timothy Spall, David Thewlis, Julie Walters, Richard Griffiths, Fiona Shaw and Natalia Tena. HEARTLESS Sensing himself an outcast because of a birthmark on his face, a photographer (Jim Sturgess) strikes a bargain with a mysterious band of thugs who claim they can help him. Philip Ridley (''The Reflecting Skin'') directed.
MADE IN DAGENHAMSally Hawkins (''Happy-Go-Lucky'') leads a group of female factory workers as they struggle for respect from their employers in 1960s England. Nigel Cole directed; with Miranda Richardson, Rosamund Pike, Bob Hoskins and Rupert Graves.
ME, TOO A young man with Down syndrome falls in love with a co-worker in this Spanish film by Alvaro Pastor and Antonio Naharro.
THE NEXT THREE DAYS When his wife (Elizabeth Banks) is convicted on a murder charge, a professor (Russell Crowe) constructs an elaborate plot to break her out of prison. With Liam Neeson, Brian Dennehy and Olivia Wilde; Paul Haggis directed.
NOTHING PERSONAL Vagabonding her way through Ireland, a Dutchwoman (Lotte Verbeek) strikes a deal with a man (Stephen Rea) who lives in serene isolation on a private island: she'll work for him in exchange for food, but there will be no personal contact between them. Urszula Antoniak wrote and directed.
TODAY'S SPECIAL Aasif Mandvi of ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' stars in an adaptation of his one-man play, ''Sakina's Restaurant,'' about a young man from Jackson Heights, Queens, who reluctantly takes over his father's nearly bankrupt Indian restaurant. With Jess Weixler, Madhur Jaffrey and Naseeruddin Shah; David Kaplan directed.
WHITE MATERIALIsabelle Huppert struggles to save her African coffee plantation as a civil war breaks out in Claire Denis's French film. With Christopher Lambert and Isaach De Bankole.
Nov. 22
BETWEEN TWO WORLDS The director Vimukthi Jayasundara contemplates the Sri Lankan civil war through a series of symbolic tableaus.
Nov. 24
BURLESQUEChristina Aguilera dreams of making the transition from cocktail waitress to featured dancer at a Los Angeles lounge where Cher is the owner and chief attraction. Steve Antin directed; with Eric Dane, Kristen Bell, Alan Cumming and Stanley Tucci. FASTER Dwayne Johnson gets tough as an ex-con with revenge on his mind and Billy Bob Thornton on his trail. George Tillman Jr. (''Men of Honor'') directed; with Carla Gugino and Tom Berenger.
KAWASAKI'S ROSE During the making of a documentary about his father-in-law, a celebrated Czech psychiatrist, a filmmaker discovers that the older man may have collaborated with the secret police during the Communist period. Jan Hrebejk directed.
THE KING'S SPEECH King George VI (Colin Firth) enlists the help of a speech therapist (Geoffrey Rush) to help him overcome a debilitating stutter on the eve of World War II. With Helena Bonham Carter, Jennifer Ehle, Michael Gambon and Derek Jacobi; Tom Hooper (''John Adams'') directed from a play by David Seidler.
THE LEGEND OF PALE MALE The story of the red-tailed hawk who became a media figure in 2004, when his nest was removed from the stonework of an Upper East Side apartment building. Frederic Lilien directed this feature documentary.
LOVE AND OTHER DRUGS From Jamie Reidy's book ''Hard Sell: The Evolution of a Viagra Salesman,''Edward Zwick's film tells of a drug salesman (Jake Gyllenhaal) in love (Anne Hathaway). With Oliver Platt, Hank Azaria, Josh Gad and Gabriel Macht.
THE NUTCRACKER IN 3DElle Fanning, Nathan Lane and John Turturro star in an adaptation of the classic Christmas story directed in depth by the unpredictable Russian filmmaker Andrei Konchalovsky (''Siberiade,''''Tango & Cash''). With eight new songs by Tim Rice.
TANGLED The 50th animated feature from Walt Disney Pictures is a 3-D spoof of ''Rapunzel,'' with Mandy Moore as the voice of the longhaired maiden and Zachary Levi as the bandit who hopes to hide out in the high tower where she's been locked away. Byron Howard and Nathan Greno directed; with the voices of Donna Murphy, Ron Perlman, Jeffrey Tambor and Paul F. Tompkins. Nov. 26
UNDERTOW A fisherman from a small village loves his wife but is also having a secret affair with an openly gay man. Death intervenes, forcing the fisherman to reveal his deeper nature. Javier Fuentes-Leon directed this Peruvian feature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, women of Tyler Perry's ''For Colored Girls'' (from left, Anika Noni Rose, Kerry Washington, Janet Jackson, Kimberly Elise, Phylicia Rashad, Loretta Devine, Tessa Thompson and Thandie Newton)
Russell Crowe in ''The Next Three Days.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK HARBRON/LIONSGATE)
Clockwise from right, Stanley Tucci and Cher in ''Burlesque''
Jaime Winstone in ''Made in Dagenham''
and Rapunzel, Flynn, center, and Maximus in ''Tangled.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIONSGATE
STEPHEN VAUGHAN/SCREEN GEMS
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
SUSIE ALLNUTT/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (MT16)
 Naomi Watts and Sean Penn are the stars of the thriller ''Fair Game,'' directed by Doug Liman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN REGAN/SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT) (MT28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BASEBALL (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); MUSIC (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SUICIDE (66%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); THEATER (58%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

PERSON: CHER (79%); RON HOWARD (79%); TYLER PERRY (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (53%); JOE WILSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



879 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: What Does He Do Now?

 BODY:
Peter Baker, in his insightful appraisal of the president, quotes Governor Rendell of Pennsylvania as grading him ''D-plus or C-minus on communication.'' Alas, this may be true. But it is very odd indeed, given that a major factor in Obama's election was his extraordinary ability to communicate. Here, many of us thought when he was elected, was an ace of eloquence. Since then, it appears he has neglected the legendary bully pulpit to his great disadvantage. Perhaps in the next two years he ought to take a page from F.D.R.'s notebook and begin a series of regular ''fireside chats'' on television to speak directly to the American people.
JOHN WILLENBECHER New York 
Peter Baker's excellent cover story reminds me why I and so many other Americans voted for Barack Obama. He has accomplished so much good for this country in two years against unrelenting Republican opposition. He has revived the U.S. image abroad. And he is so thoughtful and intelligent in answering Baker's questions, in contrast to the previous occupant of the White House. While some Americans have soured on his presidency, I am still a true believer in President Obama.
DANIEL LIPPMAN Great Barrington, Mass.
What did this article really say? That the president is ''an introvert''? That he doesn't like to ''glad-hand''? That the cost of redecorating the Oval Office was controversial? Who cares? I'd rather read about his plans for addressing outsourcing and employment; mental health deductibles, which are prohibitively expensive to many people; his continuing efforts to seduce corporations, particularly manufacturers, back home; global regulations concerning nuclear arms and melting ice caps; and his plans to invigorate the U.N.; than about what color his rug is.
JUDITH BENT Santa Fe, N.M.
I was stunned that the word ''Afghanistan'' appeared only once in the article, in a comment by the interim chief of staff, Pete Rouse, who considers the escalating war as part of what has been ''very productive'' in the president's first two years. There was no suggestion of what he will do about the war, which continues to consume billions of American dollars and hundreds of coalition military fatalities every year. There will be no victory in Afghanistan, only death, destruction and growing rage against America. This is not ''a necessary war,'' as Obama claims. It is absolute folly!
GERALD H. ANDERSON Hamden, Conn.
That Peter Baker wrote his lead story based on the political posturing of the president and not on the crucial problems facing our country is indicative of how our highest office has become increasingly ineffective. In today's political climate, most presidents are too focused on being re-elected rather than confronting the challenging problems of office. In the case of Obama, when he campaigned on the platform of ''positive change,'' he was on the outside looking in. When elected, his posture changed; when any failures were detected, he fell into the natural ''Beltway trap'' and blamed it all on the opposition. The solution lies in doing what's right and above all not worrying about re-election. If Obama honestly does this, then the presidency will become the effective office it was intended to be.
RICHARD C. GESCHKE Bristol, Conn.
There was something very refreshing about a quote attributed to one of the presidential scholars who dined with President Obama at the White House last May. Regarding their conversation with the president on the subject of Know-Nothings, Populists and other Tea Party predecessors, the historian H. W. Brands is quoted as saying of Obama: ''He listened. What he concluded, I don't know.''
I am in the middle of reading ''Obama's Wars,'' a book in which (in contrast to Brands) all the sources seem to know all the time what President Obama, and others, think, feel and conclude. Maybe these people have special powers of perception, but I would still love to hear just one of them say something like Brand's observation.
ALICE BRAY New York
President Obama needs to be the principal communicator of administration policy in the rest of his term and beyond. Hanging back, as he did for too long in the health care debate, creates a vacuum, which is filled by those opposed to his views. He should reassert his desire to reach across the aisle, to be bipartisan. But if the Republicans repeat the obstructionist tactics they used over the last two years, President Obama should speak directly to the American people with the message that despite the self-interested negativism of the Republicans, he will be relentless in pursuing what is best for our people. When Larry Summers goes back to Harvard, the president should appoint as his replacement someone like Paul Krugman, Joseph Stiglitz or another recognized economist who will push the agenda that this government byits acts helps all the people.
In other words, stand tough, tall and presidential. The nation faces huge crises that must be, and will be, addressed. President Obama, unfortunately, has been characterized as weak, as someone who can be rolled. Whether true or not, the president cannot be anything other than the active and aggressive leader selected by the people to serve all the people.
MICHAEL J. ZIMMER Evanston, Ill.
Any good manager knows that some of his programs will not work, and the key to success is to stop digging the hole and try something different, and the sooner the better. This is called reality-based management. In contrast, there is visionary management. Here, if a policy is not working, the manager nonetheless perseveres, thinking that reality is presenting a false face. If he is right, the plan is genius. If not, it is usually a disaster. Only a visionary ideologue could think his economic policy is working well with unemployment stubbornly stuck at 9.6 percent for nearly a year and a half. Obama is not the new Carter, as is often suggested. Rather, he is the Bush 43 of the left, proceeding on faith and ignoring reality to our peril.
ERIC P. LOFGREN Cranbury, N.J

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON/VII NETWORK) GRAPHIC:MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''WHAT DOES HE DO NOW?'' BY PETER BAKER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ED RENDELL (73%); PETE ROUSE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



880 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Tea Party's Kingmaker in Senate Becomes a Power Unto Himself

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
On election night last year, South Carolina's freshman senator, Jim DeMint, convened a conference call with 4,000 supporters to declare the next battle: conservatives had to rally behind Marco Rubio, a relative unknown who was trailing the establishment candidate in the Republican Senate primary in Florida.
''His win is going to send shock waves through Washington,'' Mr. DeMint proclaimed.
A year later, Mr. Rubio is leading in Florida, having driven his primary opponent out of the Republican Party. Other DeMint-backed candidates in the House and the Senate have ridden the same anti-establishment wave from long shot to likely. And the boast that Mr. DeMint made on that call no longer seems so grandiose: ''We can reshape the Republican Party.'' 
Financing Tea Party candidates and rallying the Tea Party faithful, Mr. DeMint has established himself as an alternate power center in Washington. And his rapid ascent has spawned a parlor game: what does Jim DeMint want?
Supporters in Tea Party straw polls and at conservative conferences have urged him to run for president. Other fans suggest that with several of his candidates poised to win, he could run for Republican leader, making official conservatives' ascendancy within the party.
Mr. DeMint is coy about running for president -- and there are plenty of others eyeing the water in the pool of conservative voters where Mr. DeMint would draw his support.
He would lack the votes to win as Senate leader; even if all the Tea Party candidates win, their caucus will be small. And many of his colleagues blame him for backing less viable Tea Party candidates who may cost the Republicans a Senate majority, making it unlikely they would give him any leadership position.
The role he seems to like best is as his party's chief antagonist, holding up budget bills he does not agree with and supporting challengers to colleagues he deems ideologically impure.
Once the owner of a marketing business, Mr. DeMint has promoted himself as the establishment friend of the anti-establishment crusade. He cheerfully tells people around the country he is ''in the doghouse'' in Washington, casting himself as the only principled voice in a clubby chamber of big spenders and earmarkers.
His Republican colleagues say it is his showboating, not his ideology, that annoys them.
But with candidates like Mr. Rubio and Rand Paul, the Republican running for Senate in Kentucky, citing him as their model senator, his tactics could provide a preview of what the Senate could look like with a new crop of conservatives.
For all his talk of being an outsider, Mr. DeMint is an insider, just in a different establishment. At a fund-raising dinner for Mr. Rubio in Washington this year, he joked that just by virtue of being there the people in the room could no longer consider themselves ''establishment.'' But the attendees included some of the most established names in conservative circles: Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform; David Keene of the American Conservative Union; Erick Erickson, the editor of the influential blog RedState.
Koch Industries, which finances libertarian causes like the Cato Institute and Americans for Prosperity, is among the top donors to both Mr. DeMint and his political action committee, the Senate Conservatives Fund. He has long had associations with FreedomWorks, a promoter of the Tea Party movement.
And Mr. DeMint has spent 12 years in Washington embracing the same conservative causes as these groups: abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, replacing the income tax with a flat tax and phasing out Social Security for private investment accounts.
Mr. DeMint does not merely generate controversy; he seems to seek it. In his 2004 bid for the Senate, he was forced to apologize after saying he did not think gay people or pregnant single women should be allowed to teach. But several weeks ago, he repeated the comments, telling supporters at a rally that when he first made them, ''everyone would come to me and whisper that I shouldn't back down.''
He maintains a marketer's touch. As a congressman, he once tossed 17,000 pages of the tax code from a hot air balloon. In the Senate, he helped kill a bipartisan proposal for an overhaul of immigration laws by branding it ''amnesty.'' He later said he had figured out that if he could not get his colleagues to oppose the bill, he could take to talk radio and blogs to generate millions of e-mails and calls against it.
His aides declined repeated requests for an interview with Mr. DeMint in the last month, but did send a press release noting that he had raised $7 million for other candidates this election cycle.
Mr. DeMint was born in Greenville, S.C. After his father left his mother with four children, his mother started the DeMint Academy of Dance and Decorum in the family home. If one of her students needed a partner, she would summon young Jim.
He married his high school sweetheart and after college went to work for his father-in-law's marketing firm. He eventually started his own.
In that role, he met Bob Inglis, who was running for Congress and got Mr. DeMint interested in politics. In 1994, when Mr. Inglis ran for the Senate, Mr. DeMint won the seat he had held. Mr. Inglis lost the Senate race, but won the House seat back when Mr. DeMint ran for Senate. Mr. Inglis lost the seat this year to a Tea Party candidate in the kind of primary challenge that Mr. DeMint has encouraged.
Mr. DeMint's supporters describe him as a blank slate when he first came to Congress, with little ideology and little knowledge of Washington. Barry Wynn, a former South Carolina Republican Party chairman, recalled him asking about various reporters. ''One he'd never heard of was Bob Novak,'' Mr. Wynn said, referring to the conservative columnist. ''He hadn't been listening to 'Crossfire' or whatever people of that era had been listening to to form their views.''
He quickly embraced a free-market perspective. His vote to give the president authority to fast track trade agreements infuriated the textile industry that had once been the heart of South Carolina's economy. But it impressed others as a mark of principle.
''That vote characterized him,'' said Bill Hewitt, a prominent businessman in the state, ''in terms of doing something good for the United States. Although it was bad for South Carolina in the short run.''
Mr. DeMint set up the Senate Conservatives Fund in 2008. While other leadership PACs give money to colleagues, his goal was to support the most conservative candidate, even -- or especially -- if it meant challenging an incumbent Republican. Facing only token opposition in his re-election bid this year, he has devoted much time to campaigning for primary challengers. The fund has distributed $5.2 million to candidates like Pat Toomey, who challenged Senator Arlen Specter in Pennsylvania, eventually driving him out of the party, and Joe Miller, who challenged Senator Lisa Murkowski in Alaska.
Mr. DeMint has repeatedly said that he'd rather have 30 Marco Rubios in the Senate than 60 Arlen Specters. ''He's not saying he doesn't want the majority,'' said Mr. Erickson, of RedState. ''He's saying there's no reason to have a majority if what the Republicans do is identical to what the Democrats would do.''
But colleagues like John Cornyn of Texas, say this ignores how power works in the Senate.
In 2008 he forced a weekend vote to try to block a bipartisan expansion of President Bush's AIDS program in Africa -- then skipped the vote. And last month, after Republicans agreed they would support Mr. Miller, the Tea Party-backed challenger in Alaska, despite Ms. Murkowski's decision to mount a write-in campaign, Mr. DeMint sent out a fund-raising appeal to supporters accusing Republicans of not backing Mr. Miller.
Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said Mr. DeMint had opened a rift by backing Tea Party challengers. ''It is a new and shocking development to have a member of our conference opposing incumbent Republicans,'' she said.
Republicans give him credit for his early endorsements of primary candidates who captured the Tea Party mood. But other endorsements, colleagues argue, were more about getting media attention for himself than making a principled stand. For instance, he endorsed Rand Paul when it was clear Mr. Paul was going to win. And he endorsed Christine O'Donnell at the last minute -- over a Republican who even Democrats expected to win the Senate seat in Delaware.
As for his future, Mr. DeMint has written a book with a patriotic-sounding title (''Saving Freedom''), often a sign of a senator with his eye on the White House. And his fund-raising and campaigning around the country have left him with a network that would be vital to any presidential run. He may be betting that rankling his colleagues in Washington can only increase his stature in the rest of the country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Jim DeMint (A1)
 Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, has become an alternate center of power in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BUDGETS (68%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (94%); MARCO RUBIO (89%); RAND PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



881 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 3082 words

HEADLINE: NUDGE THE VOTE

BYLINE: By SASHA ISSENBERG. 
Sasha Issenberg is the North America editor for Monocle and author of ''The Sushi Economy: Globalization and the Making of a Modern Delicacy.''

 BODY:
Over the past few days, thousands of Democratic-leaning voters nationwide -- including the young people, minorities and unmarried women who were a crucial part of Barack Obama's 2008 coalition and whom the party is desperate to rouse again on Tuesday -- received a message in their mailboxes that effectively said: we're keeping an eye on you. The mailers are the handiwork of Hal Malchow, a political consultant who is acting on a theory that first intrigued him four years ago. Before the 2006 Michigan gubernatorial primary, three political scientists isolated a group of voters and mailed them copies of their voting histories, listing the elections in which they participated and those they missed. Included were their neighbors' voting histories, too, along with a warning: after the polls closed, everyone would get an updated set. 
After the primary, the academics examined the voter rolls and were startled by the potency of peer pressure as a motivational tool. The mailer was 10 times better at turning nonvoters into voters than the typical piece of pre-election mail whose effectiveness has ever been measured. Malchow, a 58-year-old former Mississippi securities lawyer who managed Al Gore's first Senate campaign and went on to start a direct-mail firm, read the academics' study and wanted to put the device to work. But he had trouble persuading his firm's clients -- which over the years have included the Democratic National Committee and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- to incorporate such a tactic into their get-out-the-vote programs. All feared a backlash from citizens who might regard the mailer as a threat from someone seeking their vote.
Then, as New Jersey prepared to elect its governor last fall, Malchow experimented with less ominous language, an idea he adopted from the Fordham political scientist Costas Panagopoulos. He removed all mention of neighbors and offered instead an expression of gratitude for having voted in the past -- while still making it clear that recipients' voting habits would continue to be monitored. ''We hope to be able to thank you in the future for being the kind of citizen who makes our democracy work,'' read the letter to more than 11,000 New Jerseyites.
Malchow found that the softer tone, while less effective than the original mailer,increased turnout among recipients by 2.5 percentage points. The D.N.C. ran a similar experiment during the special election in Pennsylvania's 12th Congressional District this spring, with a letter from Senator Bob Casey telling voters that ''our records indicate that you voted in the 2008 election'' and thanking them for their ''good citizenship.'' By employing the device on a larger scale, for dozens of candidates and independent groups this fall, Malchow aims to deliver votesthat would otherwise be lost to Democrats.
An increasingly influential cadre of Democratic strategists is finding new ideas in the same place Malchow did: behavioral-science experiments that treat campaigns as their laboratories and voters as unwitting guinea pigs. The growing use of experimental methods -- Heather Smith, president of Rock the Vote, calls them ''prescription drug trials for democracy'' -- is convulsing a profession where hunches and instinct have long ruled. Already, experimental findings have upended a lot of folk wisdom about how votes are won. The most effective direct mail might not be the most eye-catching in the mailbox but the least conspicuous. It is better to have an anonymous, chatty volunteer remind voters it's Election Day than a recorded message from Bill Clinton or Jay-Z. The most winnable voters may be soft supporters of the opposition, not the voters who polls say are undecided. (''Undecided'' may just be another word for ''unlikely to vote.'')
Most of the activity on the left revolves around the Analyst Institute, a firm quietly founded in 2007 by A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials and liberal allies, whichseeks to establish a set of empirically proven ''best practices'' for interacting with voters. The group's executive director, a behavioral scientist named Todd Rogers, has managed dozens of experiments around the country this year. Their lessons have shaped how Democrats are approaching and cajoling the voters they think are on their side but who haven't yet shown that they will act on their beliefs on Election Day.
Nearly all of the Analyst Institute's research is private, shared only among the participating groups. The institute's Web site is almost comically empty, and the group's name -- two abstract nouns, cryptically conjoined -- evokes a C.I.A. front. There seem to be two types of political operatives in Washington: those who think Rogers is a genius transforming their field and those who have never heard of him.
The experimental movement in politics began a decade ago, when the Yale political scientists Alan Gerber and Donald Green conducted a study testing the relative effectiveness of basic political tools. As the 1998 elections approached, Gerber and Green partnered with the League of Women Voters to split 30,000 New Haven voters into four groups. Some received an oversize postcard encouraging them to vote, others the same message via a phone call or in-person visit. One control group received no contact whatsoever. After the election, Gerber and Green examined Connecticut records to see who actually voted. The in-person canvass yielded turnout 9.8 percent higher than for voters who were not contacted. Each piece of mail led to a turnout increase of only 0.6 percent. Telephone calls, Gerber and Green concluded, had no effect at all.
The findings were published in 2000 and quickly circulated among campaign operatives, who saw academics assailing many of their business models. A turf battle began within the political-consulting community: direct-mail vendors happily cited the Gerber-Green findings to argue candidates would waste money on phone calls.
Hal Malchow -- who had previously approached the Democratic National Committee to propose using experimental controls to measure mail to voters but was repeatedly rebuffed -- thought the Gerber-Green study was ''the most important event in politics for a long time,'' he says. ''Eighty percent of what we've done in the past doesn't work.'' As the mail vendor for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Malchow found a natural partner for his ideas in Mike Podhorzer, the organization's deputy political director. Podhorzer saw Gerber and Green, who see themselves as researchers and not partisan advocates, as kindred spirits in a worldwide battle for knowledge between two camps he thought of as ''gurus'' versus ''data.'' As he says, ''Until you get into a more rigorous approach, you are essentially left with what we had, which is that everything you did in a winning campaign was a good idea and everything that you did in a losing campaign was a bad idea.''
Podhorzer and Malchow began trying to adapt the Gerber-Green methods to the particular challenges faced by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which regularly runs one of the largest independent campaign operations, almost always on behalf of Democrats. ''Finding out the day after the election that Treatment A was the best is of limited value to an organization like ours,'' Podhorzer says. ''We're actually trying to win the election.''
During the 2004 campaign, Podhorzer wanted to gauge voter reactions to his organization's election messages in near-real time. A good poll shows how the electorate has moved over time, but it cannot isolate the effect of any individual appeal -- and certainly not that of a single mailed leaflet, one of labor's favorite tools for reaching member households. Focus groups offer a rich impression of how certain voters respond to that leaflet, but only the instant reaction of someone being paid $100 to have one. A focus group cannot say anything about whether a typical voter will even notice the brochure if it shows up in the mail wedged between a birthday card and a water bill.
Experiments provided a solution. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. planned to mail members monthly in 2004, and Podhorzer set out to design a ''continuous feedback loop'' testing different messages with small samples and then sending the most influential ones to a much larger target audience. As he examined the results, Podhorzer became even more frustrated with conventional polling. Asked if they would be more or less likely to vote for a candidate who favored shipping jobs overseas -- a typical way of auditioning a promising line -- voters across the board would tell pollsters that it made them ''less likely.'' But a draft leaflet about Bush's policies had little impact on autoworkers who received it; they already knew what the union wanted them to think about the subject. Construction workers, however, didn't know as much, and their minds changed. Experiments allowed Podhorzer to see which voters actually moved, not just count those who said they might.
Democrats have not been alone in experimenting with data-driven politics. As Dave Carney, once George H. W. Bush's White House political director, prepared to guide the 2006 re-election campaign of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, he invited Gerber and Green to conduct their experiments from within the campaign's war room. Perry had spent more than $25 million to win a full term in 2002, much of it on broadcast advertising, and Carney thought a rigorous experimental regime could help ''assure donors that we're using their money as best as possible -- spend it different, spend less of it.'' Gerber and Green asked two political scientists who had informally advised George W. Bush's 2004 re-election, James Gimpel and Daron Shaw, to collaborate on the project. Carney invited the quartet he called ''our four eggheads'' to impose experimental controls on nearly every aspect of campaign operations.
Perry won easy re-election in 2006, and their findings profoundly altered his 2010 tactics. Perry's primary campaign this year sent out no direct voter-contact mail, made no paid phone calls, printed no lawn signs, visited no editorial boards and purchased no newspaper ads. His broadcast advertising strategy was informed by a 2006 experiment that isolated 18 TV media markets and 80 radio stations and randomly assigned each a different start date and volume for ad buys from a $2 million budget earmarked for the experiment. Public-opinion changes from the ads were then monitored with tracking polls. Carney estimates that the research saved Perry $3 million in this year's primary campaign, and he still beat Kay Bailey Hutchison by 20 points. On Tuesday, the value of Perry's unusually empirical approach to electioneering will be tested again, this time in a tough race against the Democratic nominee, Bill White, the former mayor of Houston.
After Bush's 2004 re-election, Podhorzer invited other scientific-minded progressive operatives to A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters to share their research.Very few members would be recognizable to cable-news viewers; the group almost entirely bypassed the brand-name consultants whom campaigns like to unveil in press releases. ''It's not the big names on the door,'' says Maren Hesla, who directed Emily's List's Women Vote! campaign. ''It's all the -- God love them -- geeky guys who don't talk to clients but do the work and write the programs.''
The unofficial society called itself the Analyst Group, and it grew by word of mouth. By the time Democrats reclaimed Congress in 2006, as many as 60 people showed up for the regular lunches. In 2007, Podhorzer and his Analyst Group circle established the Analyst Institute, designed to operate with a scholarly sensibility but with the privacy of a for-profit consulting firm. Podhorzer became chairman and looked for an executive director. Gerber suggested Todd Rogers, on whose dissertation committee he had served.
Rogers, who had just turned 30, was a former college-lacrosse player from the Philadelphia suburbs who earned a joint degree in organizational behavior and psychology in connection with Harvard Business School after performing studies that examined the way individuals managed their queues on services like Netflix. Rogers argued that this type of research -- on how time delays alter preferences -- could help policy makers shape policy design on issues like carbon taxes, which involve balancing your ideal preferences (watching documentaries, having a smaller carbon footprint) with your actual choices (watching action movies, buying an S.U.V.).
Shortly before Pennsylvania's April 2008 presidential primary, Rogers scripted a phone call that went out to 19,411 Democratic households in the state. The disembodied call-center voice said it had three questions. Around what time do you expect you will head to the polls on Tuesday? Where do you expect you will be coming from when you head to the polls on Tuesday? What do you think you will be doing before you head out to the polls?
Rogers did not care what voters' answers were to the questions, only whether they had any. He was testing a psychological concept known as ''implementation intentions,'' which suggests that people are more likely to perform an action if they have already visualized doing it. The subject was on a long list of psychology concepts that Rogers took to Washington. Many had been demonstrated only in situations outside politics or examined by psychologists only in laboratory settings. Enamored of the psychologist Robert Cialdini and the behavioral economist Richard Thaler, Rogers thought their research methods could be applied to elections. And Rogers saw the advantages of doing academic-style work outside the academy: he faced no financing restrictions or the need to navigate a university's human-subjects review board.
This June, two years after the Pennsylvania experiment, Rogers traveled to Pittsburgh to present the findings at a Carnegie Mellon behavioral-science conference. Before a room of professors and graduate students, Rogers explained that asking people about their voting plans increased turnout by 4 percentage points. A closer look, however, showed the effects were unevenly distributed. The self-predictive phone calls had little impact on multiple-voter households. But for those living alone, the effect was tremendous: turnout jumped by nearly 10 percentage points. The reason, Rogers surmised, was that making plans is a collaborative activity; spouses and roommates already talk through issues like child care as a condition of voting. For those who live alone, rehearsing their Election Day routine with a stranger helped them make a plan.
Once done, Rogers took a seat next to Richard Thaler, who draped a paternal arm across his back. In 2006, Thaler welcomed Rogers into the Consortium of Behavioral Scientists, a secretive group that helped Democrats apply academic research to policy making and advised party leaders, including Hillary Clinton and Harry Reid, on election-year tactics. Two years later, Thaler -- a University of Chicago colleague of Obama's -- helped to bring many consortium members together, including Rogers, to informally advise Obama's presidential campaign.
By that fall, Rogers's implementation-intention device had become a standard campaign tool for many left-leaning groups, along with scripts declaring things like ''turnout is going to be high today.'' Rogers's experiments have shown that voters respond better to everyone-is-doing-it messages emphasizing high turnout than don't-be-part-of-the-problem appeals describing how few Americans vote.
Rogers spends a lot of time trying to convince activists that the central premise of randomized experiments -- deciding not to contact a control group of voters -- will not torpedo their short-term priority of winning elections. Meanwhile, a new Democratic establishment has brought the data-driven crowd in from the outside. Since Obama's election, operatives with Analyst Group ties have moved into key party jobs and now attend meetings as representatives of the Democratic National Committee, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
While political experiments have proved successful at isolating what gets people to vote, they have been less useful at finding out how voters decide among candidates. Partly for that reason, while the Analyst Institute's findings and sensibility inform how permanent institutions like unions operate, they have yet to transform candidate's campaigns, where most money is spent in the least targetable way possible: on broadcast TV time. Rogers has been designing experiments to assess Internet advertising, whose effectiveness has been traditionally gauged by click-throughs and sign-ups that do little to measure the ads' impact on more-passive viewers. For a study Rogers oversaw during Minnesota's 2008 Senate campaign, an independent group bought Yahoo! banner ads introducing an issue invisible from the campaign dialogue elsewhere: an obscure vote by the Republican Norm Coleman against financing a rural antidrug program. Through polling, Rogers discovered that those who saw the ads were more likely than others to believe that Coleman could have done ''more to stop meth use.''
But experimental politicking is not always so provocative. Indeed, groups following Analyst Institute findings often end up abandoning their flashiest tools for more staid ones. The America Votes coalition has dropped get-out-the-vote robocalls. Rock the Vote has found e-mail and text messages arriving from unexciting senders like ''Election Center'' often do better than those with livelier ''from'' lines. Malchow has discovered that voters pay less attention to the glossy four-color brochures designed to ''cut through'' mailbox clutter than they do to spare envelopes evoking a letter from the tax man or a jury-duty summons. ''People want information, they don't want advertising,'' Malchow says. ''When they see our fingerprints on this stuff, they believe it less.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Oct. 31 about new ways of getting voters to the polls omitted an attribution for a direct-mail technique used by Hal Malchow, a political consultant, in the New Jersey governor's race in 2009. The technique of thanking voters for having voted in the past, and expressing hope that they could be thanked in the future, was adopted from the Fordham political scientist Costas Panagopoulos.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: OLD KIND OF MESSAGE: ''More Americans should exercise their right to vote.'' PROJECTED OUTCOME: Lower voter turnout. (MM28)
 NEW KIND OF MESSAGE: ''Turnout is going to be high today!'' PROJECTED OUTCOME: Higher voter turnout. (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); AL GORE (58%); BOB CASEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



882 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 2762 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Election Day

BYLINE: By EVAN SMITH and ROSS RAMSEY

 BODY:
Ah, the governor's race: It has sucked all the air out of the room this election cycle, hasn't it? In fairness, the nasty, costly contest between Rick Perry and Bill White was always going to be the heavyweight fight, and all of us sitting at ringside have been sufficiently entertained. But there's an undercard as well -- there typically is -- and even if it's received scant attention by comparison, don't think it doesn't matter. To the contrary, the outcome of races other than the one at the top of the ballot has serious implications for a great many matters of politics and policy that will affect every Texan. Here are six we'll be thinking about on Election Day.
The House
The Texas House of Representatives has 150 members, and at the moment the Republicans have a 77 to 73 advantage. They're expected to pick up seats -- six? eight? -- and the number gained could determine whether Joe Straus, the freshman speaker, is forced from his leadership position. 
Mr. Straus, a San Antonio Republican, was elected in January 2009 by a coalition of opponents to the incumbent, Tom Craddick, Republican of Midland, that included more Democrats than members of his own party.
Nearly two years later, Craddick supporters and conservatives who are wary of a Republican who was elevated by Democrats are maneuvering to oust Mr. Straus. State Representative Warren Chisum, a Pampa Republican, has filed papers with the Texas Ethics Commission indicating he'll run against Mr. Straus come January.
Mr. Chisum's chances improve if the Republicans have a big day at the polls, for two reasons: new members don't have allegiances and favors owed to the sitting speaker, and they might be open to the argument that they, not the Democrats, should have the most say over who gets the speaker's job.
Texas government isn't a winner-take-all system, where the party in power gets all of the committee assignments and makes all of the rules. But it is partisan, and some Republicans -- including Mr. Chisum at times -- have said a Republican speaker should be chosen by the Republican caucus. Had that been the situation two years ago, Mr. Craddick would still be speaker.
A bigger contingent of Republicans could also make it easier for conservatives to win votes for pet issues. Even with the same management, the House could be more conservative next session if the Republicans are big winners on Tuesday.
Redistricting
It's an election to which voters aren't invited and in which they can't participate. It happens every decade, after the census. Yes, 2011 is a redistricting year: State lawmakers will draw maps that effectively decide many seats in Congress, in the Legislature and in the State Board of Education before a single ballot is cast.
If voters make a large change in the number of Republicans in the House, they will provide a rationale for new maps with a roughly proportionate number of seats drawn for each party.
Texas primaries can be somewhat competitive, when seats are open or when incumbents are weakened by bad behavior or bad votes, but general elections at the legislative level are not. They're decided, in large measure, by how the district lines are drawn. The reason is simple: The goal is to protect one party or the other -- whichever is in power -- and that party's candidates tend to prevail in the majority of districts in the ensuing elections.
Consider that while Texas has all 32 of its Congressional seats up for grabs on Tuesday, only 2 of them are competitive. In Congressional District 17, Representative Chet Edwards, Democrat of Waco, is trying to hold off a strong challenge from Bill Flores, a Bryan Republican, in the most Republican district in the country held by a Democrat. In the C.D. 23, Representative Ciro Rodriguez, Democrat of San Antonio, is battling Francisco Canseco, a San Antonio Republican.
Half of Texas' 31 state senators are up for re-election this year, but none are in a race considered competitive. And in the Texas House, fewer than 30 of the 150 seats are considered at risk by even the most ardent party loyalists.
Texas is expected to gain three and possibly four seats in Congress in the next apportionment, and some members of the state's delegation have been trying to cut a deal that would give two to the Democrats and two to the Republicans. The battle would then be over geography and which Republicans would get seats and which Democrats would get seats. If the Legislature can't put differences aside and draw a map, the courts would do so.
Legislative redistricting works differently. The number of seats is set, and the people who occupy them in January are the people voting on the changes. A partisan breakdown over the last redistricting maps resulted in a very deliberate work stoppage, with House Democrats leaving the state for Ardmore, Okla., at one point and the Senate Democrats bailing out to Albuquerque at another.
If the Legislature fails to adopt maps, the five-member Legislative Redistricting Board steps in. As with congressional plans, that almost invariably ends up in court. Barring some upsets in Tuesday's election, the five people on the board are all Republicans: House Speaker Joe Straus, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, Attorney General Greg Abbott, Comptroller Susan Combs and Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson.
A potential hole card for the Democrats is the Justice Department, which is in Democratic hands for the first time during a decennial redistricting in the history of the Voting Rights Act. Texas' maps are governed by that act and must win Justice Department approval before they take effect. With Republican majorities in the Legislature and on the redistricting board, that fact and the courts might be the best chances Texas Democrats have to avoid getting steamrolled.
Immigration
Redistricting is stressful, and budget problems are no picnic, but immigration can really lock up the Legislature.
Two years ago, warring over a related issue -- whether to require voters to show photo ID at the polls -- roiled the Senate and brought the House to a near standstill. Republicans, generally, were for it. Democrats, generally, were not. Polls show voters want something done about immigration and border security; with most of that under federal control, there are only a few options open to state lawmakers.
Voter ID is one. Another is legislation similar to Arizona's immigration law, chiefly the provision that police should be allowed to check the citizenship of people they stop for other reasons. A third topic is birthright citizenship -- the constitutional grant, via the 14th Amendment, of citizenship to babies born in the United States. Texas can't amend the United States Constitution, but it can make noise, pass resolutions imploring Congress to do something and eat up time in the 20-week legislative session debating an issue of relatively high public interest.
Immigration issues offer opportunities for opponents to ''chub'' in the House, a process of dragging out debate that has the same practical effect as filibustering in the Senate. The Senate's rules enable one-third of its members (under most circumstances) to block consideration of legislation.
Political battles over that parliamentary setup led to the redistricting walkouts in 2003 and to a temporary freeze in the Senate two years ago. Members fear it will happen again, unless they can negotiate deals on maps or on immigration and border security.
Tuesday's elections aren't likely to change the partisan makeup of the Senate, but the size of the Republican majority in the House could be important here, too. Texas Republicans have struggled to win over Latino voters -- Victor Carrillo, the incumbent railroad commissioner, attributed his unexpected loss in the March primaries to his surname and urged his fellow Republicans not to alienate Hispanics.
More Republicans in the House could brighten prospects for voter ID and similar measures, but such legislation could also set back the party's efforts to attract the fastest-growing part of the state's population.
The Budget
How big is it? That central question of the state's budget debate isn't answered yet, at least officially. Estimates of the shortfall range from $11 billion on the low side to $25 billion on the high end. At issue is the difference between the comptroller's assessment of how much money the state will bring in during the next two years, and the budget writers' determination of how much money it will take to run the state in that same period.
Comptroller Susan Combs's number isn't out yet -- she'll reveal it in the Biennial Revenue Estimate just after the first of the year. With an election upon us, she's not even hinting at her forecast, despite plaintive requests from lawmakers like State Senator Kirk Watson, Democrat of Austin, that she announce it earlier than normal.
The budget writers' number is a lot looser, because what you think the budget should be depends on what you think Texas should be doing. One idea is to figure the costs of the programs running now, assume they'll continue to run pretty much the same way and adjust only for variables like population growth and the price tags of various state services, like paying for medical care. The base budget that's presented after the elections and before the legislative session is gaveled in on Jan. 11 could also include some proposed cuts, which would mean a smaller starting number on the spending side.
The actual shortfall number matters only for rhetorical purposes. The important thing is that it is somewhere between one in four and one in five of the state's total discretionary dollars.
''Any way you do the math, it's a big chunk of money,'' Speaker Joe Straus recently said to a business taxpayer group.
Without a supermajority vote, the Legislature can't approve an unbalanced budget, and none of the people running for governor are likely to sign one anyway.
Texas expects to have about $9 billion socked away in its rainy day fund, and it's possible to hide $3 billion or so with tactics like delaying big payments from the end of one budget to the beginning of the next. Proponents of gambling hoping for legalized slot machines at existing racetracks or even full casino gambling said their proposals could raise money to help balance the budget; add the potential for $1 billion to $2 billion more there.
After that, the fiscal landscape is rocky, with lawmakers forced to choose between cutting programs that their constituents want or raising taxes that they promised were off-limits. If the lawmakers didn't make those promises themselves, their leaders did it for them.
Mr. Straus is telling members that they have to stay within available revenue (Ms. Combs's number), that they can't use all of the rainy day money to balance the budget, that the next budget ''must limit government'' and that they won't be allowed to raise taxes. Putting more Republicans in the House won't change that formula, though it might make it easier for Mr. Straus to get the votes he needs.
To get a real change in direction, voters would have to replace either the governor or the lieutenant governor, who appear to be in accord with the speaker.
2012
So will he or won't he? The governor has said he's not looking past Tuesday's election to the one two years from now -- and, anyway, he has no interest in running for the White House. But the great mentioners are on alert: If Rick Perry cruises to an easy, early victory Tuesday night -- as Matthew Dowd, the former George W. Bush and Arnold Schwarzenegger strategist, has said -- listen for the presidential drumbeat to begin.
Mr. Perry is an optimistic, handsome, young-seeming, indisputably conservative governor whose electoral-vote-rich state weathered the economic downturn better than any other, creating more jobs during his tenure than the other 49 states combined. The anti-tax folks love him. The social conservatives love him. Big business loves him. He has been at the head of the anti-Washington parade going back to Tax Day 2009, when he publicly entertained the idea of Texas' seceding from the union. He gleefully egged on the state's attorney general to sue the federal government in the last year over the health care overhaul, air-quality permitting, education financing and the moratorium on offshore oil drilling. Why shouldn't he run?
Because, his critics say, he's on the outer edge of the mainstream, ideologically. Because he's not all that popular in Texas, actually, getting only 39 percent of the vote to win re-election in a crowded field in 2006 and barely crossing the 50 percent threshold in most polls this time around. And because, with you-know-who still visible in the rear-view mirror, it's just too soon for another Republican president from here.
Mr. Dowd and others acknowledge these hurdles, but say Republicans may not have many options for who can go boot-to-loafer with Barack Obama in the charisma and retail-politics departments. And as a practical matter, the road to the nomination runs through the Tea Party, which is where all the energy and momentum resides these days.
The movement will need to approve of the Republican standard-bearer in 2012, and other than Sarah Palin, who generates as much enthusiasm in the land of Tea as Mr. Perry does? Plus, many people in both parties view Ms. Palin as unqualified for the office and too controversial to be elected. He scores much higher on both counts, making him -- potentially -- the only stopper in the Palin bottle.
2014
The next governor's race begins the day after this one wraps. So on Nov. 3, expect to start hearing about the coming battle between Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and Attorney General Greg Abbott, the logical and immediate front-runners for the Republican nomination in 2014.
These two experienced politicians have been to the statewide candidate rodeo before. If they prevail on Tuesday, they will have been elected to executive office a combined nine times over the last 20 years.
They're both extremely well-funded. Mr. Dewhurst is wealthy enough to bankroll his own campaign, while Mr. Abbott has been the most prodigious fund-raiser at any level, of any party, of the last few cycles -- despite never really having a competitive race for re-election. And they're surely among the most conservative Republicans to serve in such prominent positions in recent memory.
Of course, there's a slim possibility that, despite the whole Godzilla-versus-Mothra dynamic, a third aspirant for governor, promoted by the Tea Party, could jump in -- perhaps State Senator Dan Patrick, Republican of Houston, the popular and quite conservative radio talk show host.
More likely, the real competition would come in a general election against ...well, that's a good question. If Bill White loses on Tuesday, he's unlikely to make another run for the statehouse; the United States Senate in 2012 is more plausible. And there's currently not a single statewide elected Democrat, so there's no obvious and visible prospective candidate waiting in the wings.
As the Democratic Party seeks to regain some footing, any footing, the best it can do is hope to persuade one of its rising stars, attractive and energetic if inexperienced and largely unknown, to take an Obama-like leap of faith. A few House members fit the bill -- Rafael Anchia of Dallas, Mark Strama of Austin and Patrick Rose of Dripping Springs -- and State Senators Kirk Watson of Austin and Leticia Van de Putte of San Antonio have previously toyed with running.
But the party's best hope, if he can be coaxed into an uphill battle, is Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio, who's on most people's lists of the nation's Hispanic politicians most likely to rule the world. Mr. Castro, in fact, has already been called the Latino Obama (which may not be as much of a compliment in Texas as it is elsewhere).
In 2014 Mr. Castro will turn 40; his potential appeal to young voters and the coming majority Hispanic population are two items on the plus side of the ledger. On the minus side, he may be a cycle or two away from making a big run. Also, the last three big-city mayors to run statewide -- Mr. White, Mr. Watson and Ron Kirk, the current United States trade representative -- have found it's no cakewalk.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the 2011 redistricting in Texas incorrectly stated that Gov. Rick Perry is on the five-member Legislative Redistricting Board. Speaker Joe Straus, not the governor, is the fifth member of the board.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: While a lot of focus in the state is on the governor's campaign, the issues affected by Tuesday's vote stretch well past the election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)
Immigration remains a major concern in the state, and a hot potato for Republicans who want Hispanic votes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Representative Ciro Rodriguez, a Democrat, spoke to supporters Tuesday in San Antonio at an event at the home of Regino A. Garza, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA KRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A33A)
Bill White, hoping to defeat Gov. Rick Perry, campaigned Tuesday in Austin. If Mr. Perry wins big on Tuesday, he is likely to be promoted as a presidential candidate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LARRY KOLVOORD/AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
LARRY KOLVOORD/AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio, at a 2009 cybersecurity round table, has been called the Latino Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL)
 Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, right, and Attorney General Greg Abbott are likely Republican candidates for governor in 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARJORIE KAMYS COTERA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A33B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); REDISTRICTING (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CAUCUSES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (64%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); CIRO D RODRIGUEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010



883 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, October 31st 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Saturday, October 16th 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 
WeeksThisLastOnWeekWeekList124EARTH (THE BOOK), by Jon Stewart and others. ($27.99 Grand Central) A visitor&#8217;s guide to the human race, presented by &#34;The Daily Show.&#34;232TRICKLE UP POVERTY, by Michael Savage. ($26.99 Morrow/HarperCollins) The radio host criticizes Obama&#8217;s policies on the borders, the economy and security.313OBAMA&#39;S WARS, by Bob Woodward. ($30 Simon &#38; Schuster) The inside story of how decisions were made on the war in Afghanistan, the campaign in Pakistan and the fight against terrorism.401THE LAST BOY, by Jane Leavy. ($27.99 Harper/HarperCollins) A biography of the Yankees star Mickey Mantle, who grappled with a wrenching childhood and physical injuries.562AT HOME, by Bill Bryson. ($28.95 Doubleday) The evolution of private life as exemplified by the rooms of the houses we live in.675PINHEADS AND PATRIOTS, by Bill O&#39;Reilly. ($27.99 Morrow/HarperCollins) The Fox News commentator scrutinizes the meaning of change in the era of Obama.753------ FINISH FIRST, by Tucker Max. ($25.99 Gallery) Stories of bad decisions, debauchery and sexual recklessness.882WASHINGTON, by Ron Chernow. ($40 Penguin Press) A biography of the first president.901EXTRAORDINARY, ORDINARY PEOPLE, by Condoleezza Rice. ($27 Crown Archetype) The former secretary of state&#8217;s memoir stresses the role her parents played as she was growing up in Birmingham, Ala.1001CONVERSATIONS WITH MYSELF, by Nelson Mandela. ($28 Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) Letters, notes, journal entries and speech drafts offer an intimate look at the author; with an introduction by President Obama.11106THE GRAND DESIGN, by Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow. ($28 Bantam) Central questions of philosophy and science, from the author of &#8220;A Brief History of Time.&#8221;1243THE ROOTS OF OBAMA&#39;S RAGE, by Dinesh D&#39;Souza. ($27.95 Regnery) D&#8217;Souza argues that Obama&#8217;s policies are defined by the anti-colonialist sentiments of his father.1301LATE, LATE AT NIGHT, by Rick Springfield. ($26 Touchstone/Simon &#38; Schuster) The pop star&#8217;s memoir traces his rise to fame and describes his lifelong battle with depression.141124---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. ($15.99 It Books/HarperCollins) A coming-of-age memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author&#8217;s father.15122IS IT JUST ME?, by Whoopi Goldberg. ($22.99 Hyperion) The actress provides a humorous take on the ill effects of the loss of civility in today&#8217;s society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PHILOSOPHY (71%); TERRORISM (50%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JON STEWART (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) ALABAMA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010



884 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Facing a Giant Of an Election

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
It's a peculiar election season in the Bay Area, what with far-flung Republicans casting San Francisco as the opposition party while local voters bring a laserlike focus to ... baseball. Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco appears poised to depart for Sacramento; Senator Barbara Boxer, a Marin County stalwart, is in a tight race; Meg Whitman, Silicon Valley mogul and gubernatorial wannabe, is offering a case study in what money can't buy. And all anyone here can talk about is the Giants.
Amid all this, though, there are three initiatives on the ballot that go to the heart of what the Bay Area represents in the global zeitgeist. Will we continue to be the environmentally friendly, union-loving, high-tech hub of the counterculture? Or will we follow the rest of the country into recession-induced conservatism? 
The most dramatic of the initiatives is Proposition 19, the marijuana legalization effort. Its passage would set off a social and economic experiment that would most likely reverberate across the country for decades.
Oakland, belying its bland image and blue-collar roots, has all but staked its economic future on marijuana legalization, getting ahead of the game by authorizing large marijuana farms and actively seeking the energy and investment of cannabis entrepreneurs. It may not have been anyone's first pick for Amsterdam-by-the-Bay, but it's well on its way.
Proposition 19 leaves most decisions about marijuana commerce to local authorities, and Bay Area cities of all sizes will quite likely try different approaches to taxing and regulation. Research on marijuana, largely stymied by the drug's illegality, will flourish in the region's numerous medical institutions. Farm country, and the covert marijuana-growing regions of the North Coast, will have a new cash crop.
Nationally, a Proposition 19 victory will most likely lead Democratic political strategists to encourage legalization initiatives elsewhere as an army of young, Democratic-leaning voters comes to the fore. Meanwhile, if the federal government continues to resist legalization, an epic states-rights battle will unfold. But this one will feature liberals arguing for local control and conservatives supporting the strong hand of Washington.
The second landmark initiative is Proposition 23, which would roll back California's seminal anti-global-warming law, AB 32. The bipartisan passage of AB 32 in 2006 showed California, once again, willing to act on major environmental issues even if Washington could not. That leadership not only assured a long-run reduction in greenhouse gases and related pollutants, but also proved a catalyst for the alternative-energy industry; about one-third of all ''clean tech'' investment nationally now flows to the Bay Area.
Supporters of Proposition 23, financed almost entirely by oil companies, call AB 32 a job-killer, arguing that California can't afford such environmental protection just now.
In Silicon Valley, and especially in the booming solar power industry, the conventional wisdom is that Proposition 23 will fail. Its passage would end the state's 40-year run as the national leader in environmental regulation -- and bring on a lot of soul-searching among local activists who believe they've been winning hearts and minds.
The third signal initiative is San Francisco's Proposition B, which would require city employees to pay far more toward their pension and health care benefits. San Francisco is one of the most pro-union cities in the country, and the unions have mounted a furious campaign against Proposition B. If it passes anyway -- in defiance of virtually every elected official in the city -- it will be a shot across the bow for public employee unions everywhere.
Suddenly, San Francisco will no longer be among the last bastions of labor power, but rather part of a new national vanguard trying to rein in fat pay and benefit deals throughout the public sector. (Another city proposition is aimed specifically at the pay of transit workers.)
Proposition B opponents say its passage would hurt deserving workers and poison labor relations in the city. But proponents, led by an odd coalition of idiosyncratic liberals and venture capitalists, argue that it's critical to bring a new realism to municipal budget discussions.
If the statewide initiatives were being contested only locally, Proposition 19 would probably win, and Proposition 23 would lose in a landslide. But a big part of what makes the Bay Area a global leader on environmental policy and lifestyle trends is its ability to bring the rest of the state along with it.
I'm as riveted by the World Series as anyone, but let's not forget what else is at stake this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); BALLOTS (73%); CASE STUDIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (79%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



885 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: THE BOSS; He's Back to Baseball Cards

 BODY:
MY father, Michael, was a volleyball player who competed in the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo and worked as an executive for the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee.
When I graduated from sixth grade, he sent me a letter -- which I still have -- offering me a junior partnership in a new company.
He offered to invest $1,000 in what had been my hobby of collecting and trading baseball cards with friends and to give me a 25 percent stake in our venture, with the possibility of an equal partnership if I earned an additional $1,000 selling cards. 
Baseball cards, he wrote, seemed to be a ''sound investment'' and would be a place ''where your brains and know-how, and my capital, could be profitably employed.'' With my father's investment, I started traveling to card shows and began making money from our little business -- more than $5,000, I recall.
After playing on a state championship volleyball team at Palisades High School in Pacific Palisades, Calif., I went to Stanford on a volleyball scholarship. I was active in student government and majored in economics because I wanted to go into business.
After graduation in 1991, I was hired for Nestle's management training program in Chicago. Then I was assigned to a plant in Franklin, Ill., that made Butterfinger and Baby Ruth candy bars. After four years at Nestle, I enrolled at Harvard Business School and earned an M.B.A. in 1997.
I proposed to my future wife, Victoria, while visiting the Taj Mahal in India. We married in 1999. After business school, I worked as a management consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers before moving to companies affiliated with the News Corporation. My first stop was as director of business development at Fox Sports in 1999.
After two years, I transferred to BSkyB in London, working as director of interactive television strategy. I moved to Gemstar TV Guide in 2003, and was named president of its TV Guide cable network and broadband business in 2005.
In March 2009, TV Guide Network and TVGuide.com were sold for $255 million to Lions Gate Entertainment. After agreeing to stay for the transition year, I was looking for something to do next.
A friend mentioned that there might be an opportunity at Topps. I was immediately interested because the company, founded in 1938, is well known for its sports cards and candy brands like Ring Pop, Baby Bottle Pop and Bazooka. Topps wanted to focus on finding ways to turn its brands into television, film or digital properties. Since 2007, it has been owned by Michael D. Eisner's investment company, Tornante, and Madison Dearborn Partners.
It seemed like a good fit because of my passion for baseball cards, my background with Nestle candy and an interest in media. And the idea of working with Michael was very appealing. So I accepted the job.
While we lived in Los Angeles, raising our young twins, I often played beach volleyball. We've been living in New York since March, and the twins are now 6. There is only one beach court in Central Park, so I've taken up running.
Topps is the official card company of Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the Ultimate Fighting Championship and World Wrestling Entertainment. The real fun of this job is making products that are thrilling to kids.
Given where I ended up, I think it's about time that I paid back my dad -- with interest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RYAN O'HARA: C.E.O. of Topps, the sports card and candy company, New York AGE 41 BIRTHPLACE Santa Monica, Calif. LOVES TO Explore the East Coast with his wife and children FAVORITE BASEBALL PLAYER OF ALL TIME Davey Lopes (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOPPS COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); CONFECTIONERY (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); MANAGER TRAINING (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (65%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (62%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (62%); BROADBAND (62%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NEWS CORP (65%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (56%); NESTLE SA (55%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (53%); LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT CORP (53%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%); NESN (SWX) (55%); BSY (LSE) (53%); LGF (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010



886 of 886 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Give Obama A Break

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
In politics as in finance, markets overshoot. Traders and voters swoon over stocks or politicians one week, and then rage at them the next.
That's why I'm feeling a bit sorry for President Obama as we approach a midterm election in which he is poised to be cast off like an old sock. The infatuation with Mr. Obama was overdone in 2008, and so is the rejection of him today.
So here's my message: Give him a chance. 
The sourness toward Mr. Obama reminds me of the crankiness toward Al Gore in 2000. We in the news media were tough on Mr. Gore, magnifying his weaknesses, and that fed into a general disdain. So some liberals voted for Ralph Nader, and George W. Bush moved into the White House.
Like others, I have my disappointments with Mr. Obama, including his tripling of forces in Afghanistan. Yet the central problem isn't that Mr. Obama has been a weak communicator as president or squandered his political capital -- although both are true -- but that we're mired in the aftermath of the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s.
After all, Gallup polls still show Mr. Obama with public approval a hair ahead of Ronald Reagan's at a similar point in his presidency (when America was also in recession). And maybe the best comparison is with President George H. W. Bush, a solid president and admirable man who had stratospheric approval ratings in 1991 at the end of the Persian Gulf war and then was fired by the public a year later when he sought re-election -- because of a much milder recession than today's.
Bill Clinton, who was as good a president as we've had in modern times, captured Mr. Obama's challenge: ''I'd like to see any of you get behind a locomotive going straight downhill at 200 miles an hour and stop it in 10 seconds,'' Mr. Clinton told a crowd in Washington State, according to a Washington Post account.
Mr. Clinton also noted that the midterm elections are not a referendum. ''Let's make this a referendum on everything that's bothering you about life right now,'' he paraphrased the Republicans as saying, before adding: ''It is not a referendum. It. Is. A. Choice. A choice between two different sets of ideas.''
The criticisms of Mr. Obama from the left often ring true to me, but I also think we elide the political difficulties of getting better legislation past obstructionists in Congress. A ''public option'' would have improved the health care package in my judgment, but it might also have killed it.
The economic crisis has also distracted from authentic accomplishments. Presidents since Harry Truman have been pushing for health care reform, and it was Mr. Obama who finally achieved it. The economy seemed at risk of another Great Depression when he took office, and that was downgraded to a recession from which we have officially emerged -- even though the pain is still biting.
Mr. Obama has also helped engineer a successful auto bailout, a big push for clean energy, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act to reduce sex discrimination, tighter tobacco regulations aimed at the 1,000 Americans under age 18 who become smokers each day, and tighter financial regulation including reform of credit card rules.
Above all, Mr. Obama has been stellar in one area crucial to our country's future: education. Democrats historically have been AWOL on school reform because they are beholden to teacher unions, but Mr. Obama has reframed the debate and made it safe to talk about teaching standards and ''bad teachers.'' Until Mr. Obama, Democrats barely acknowledged that it was possible for a teacher to be bad.
Mr. Obama used stimulus money to keep teachers from being laid off and to nudge states to reform education so as to benefit children for years to come. His ''Race to the Top'' focused states on education reform as never before.
He has also revamped and expanded student loans and bolstered support for community colleges, opening a new path to higher education for working-class Americans. Millions more Americans may end up in college.
Presidents in both parties have talked for years about the importance of education, but until now it has been lip service. Improving America's inner-city schools will be a long slog, but Mr. Obama has done far more than any other president in this area -- arguably our single greatest national challenge. In my view, it's his greatest achievement, and it has been largely ignored.
So, sure, go ahead and hold Mr. Obama's feet to the fire. He deserves to be held accountable. But let's not allow economic malaise to cloud our judgment and magnify America's problems in ways that become self-fulfilling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); DESERT STORM (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RALPH NADER (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

 
