

401 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Weak State Job Growth Predicted 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Job growth in New Jersey will weaken over the next five years, and many of the new jobs will come in the lower-paying restaurant, leisure and social services sectors, according to a forecast released yesterday by Rutgers University's Economic Advisory Service. 
Sectors with better wages, like information and manufacturing, are continuing to decline in New Jersey, while business services are not showing much growth, said Nancy H. Mantell, executive director of the service. Since 1990, New Jersey lost 200,000 manufacturing jobs and 20,000 information jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); RESTAURANTS (87%); FACTORY WORKERS (86%) Labor

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%) Rutgers University

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



402 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: IRAQIS NOT READY TO FIGHT REBELS ON OWN, U.S. SAYS 

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20 

 BODY:
About half of Iraq's new police battalions are still being established and cannot conduct operations, while the other half of the police units and two-thirds of the new army battalions are only ''partially capable'' of carrying out counterinsurgency missions, and only with American help, according to a newly declassified Pentagon assessment. 
 Only ''a small number'' of Iraqi security forces are capable of fighting the insurgency without American assistance, while about one-third of the army is capable of ''planning, executing and sustaining counterinsurgency operations'' with allied support, the analysis said. 
 The assessment, which has not been publicly released, is the most precise analysis of the Iraqis' readiness levels that the military has provided. Bush administration officials have repeatedly said the 160,000 American-led allied troops cannot begin to withdraw until Iraqi troops are ready to take over security. 
 The assessment is described in a brief written response that Gen. Peter Pace, the incoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, provided last week to the Senate Armed Services Committee. It was provided to The Times by a Senate staff aide. At General Pace's confirmation hearing on June 29, Republicans and Democrats directed him to provide an unclassified accounting of the Iraqis' abilities to allow a fuller public debate. The military had already provided classified assessments to lawmakers. 
 ''We need to know, the American people need to know the status of readiness of the Iraqi military, which is improving, so that we can not only understand but appreciate better the roles and missions that they are capable of carrying out,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said at the hearing. 
 General Pace's statement comes as the Pentagon prepares to deliver to Congress as early as Thursday a comprehensive report that establishes performance standards and goals on a variety of political and economic matters, as well as the training of Iraqi security forces, and a timetable for achieving those aims. The report was due on July 11, but the Pentagon missed the deadline. 
 The Defense Department is required to update the assessment every 90 days. 
 From a single American-trained Iraqi battalion a year ago, the Pentagon says there are now more than 100 battalions of Iraqi troops and paramilitary police units, totaling 171,500 men. Of that total, about 77,700 are military troops and 93,800 are police and paramilitary police officers. The total is to rise to 270,000 by next summer, when 10 fully equipped, 14,000-member Iraqi Army divisions are to be operational. 
 American commanders have until now resisted quantifying the abilities of Iraqi units, especially their shortcomings, to avoid giving the insurgents any advantage. 
 In General Pace's seven-sentence response, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, he stressed, ''The majority of Iraqi security forces are engaged in operations against the insurgency with varying degrees of cooperation and support from coalition forces.'' He added that many units had ''performed superbly.''
 At a Pentagon news conference on Wednesday, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld defended this approach of describing the Iraqi units' abilities in general terms only. 
 ''It's not for us to tell the other side, the enemy, the terrorists, that this Iraqi unit has this capability, and that Iraqi unit has this capability,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said. ''The idea of discussing weaknesses, if you will, strengths and weaknesses of 'this unit has a poor chain of command,' or 'these forces are not as effective because their morale's down' -- I mean, that would be mindless to put that kind of information out.'' 
 Iraqi and American commanders have set up a system that grades Iraqi military and special police units in six categories: personnel, command and control, training, equipping, ability to sustain forces, and leadership. Using these measurements, Iraqi battalions are graded on a scale of one (strongest) to four (weakest). The military is still devising measurements for regular police units.
 Level1 units are able to plan, execute and sustain independent counterinsurgency operations. By late last month, American commanders said, only 3 of the 107 military and paramilitary battalions had achieved that standard. At the lower end, Level4 units are just forming and cannot conduct operations. Units graded at levels in between need some form of allied support, often supplies, communications and intelligence. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld said such measurements were just part of the calculus in judging individual units or their parent organizations.
 ''One way is to look at it numerically,'' he said. ''How many are there? How many have the right equipment? The other way to look at it is the softer things. How is the experience? Are they battle-hardened? How's the morale? What kind of noncommissioned officers and middle-level officers do they have? How's the chain of command functioning? What's the relationship between the Ministry of Defense forces and the Ministry of Interior forces?'' 
 American commanders have said for months that training Iraqis in Western-style policing tactics and techniques would be one of the most challenging tasks, in large part because of the lack of a law-enforcement tradition among the Iraqi police. 
 About a half of their police battalions are still being formed and are ''not yet capable of conducting operations,'' General Pace wrote. 
 Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the Armed Services Committee's ranking Democrat, visited Iraq this month and praised the military for devising a system for rating Iraqi units akin to what the American military uses to judge the combat readiness of its own forces. 
 But in a report issued July 11, Mr. Levin said American and Iraqi officials needed to develop measurable benchmarks for when Iraqi units are deemed capable enough of dealing with insurgents to allow American forces to begin to withdraw. ''Without such a plan, Iraqis may never assume the responsibility for taking back their country,'' he said. 
 Senior American commanders maintain that the Iraqis are making progress. In the past few months, more than 1,500 American troops have joined Iraqi units as advisers, in most cases living and working with individual units. In addition, dozens of American Army and Marine units are working with Iraqi in counterinsurgency missions. 
 Maj. Gen. William G. Webster Jr., commander of the Third Infantry Division, which is responsible for Baghdad and the surrounding area, predicted earlier this month that by October there should be a full, 18,000-member division of Iraqi soldiers sufficiently trained to take the lead in securing the Iraqi capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (54%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



403 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Leaps of Imagination For the Parachute Jump

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Few would question that Coney Island is the quintessential American amusement area, the home of Nathan's frankfurters, the Cyclone and the Wonder Wheel. So how did the commission to design a public pavilion around its celebrated Parachute Jump end up in the hands of an Australian, a Scot and two Englishmen? 
 The answer lies not only in the globe-spanning renown of Coney Island's faded glory but in the increasing cosmopolitanism of architectural competitions, in which designers from across the world can be invited over the Internet to reimagine public spaces many have never visited.
The Van Alen Institute, a nonprofit organization devoted to public architecture, joined with the New York City Economic Development Corporation last year to hold a contest to design a year-round pavilion at the base of the 262-foot-high Parachute Jump, a landmark built for the 1939 World's Fair that is known as the Eiffel Tower of Brooklyn. 
 All 864 proposals -- including a model and renderings by the winning team, four young architects based in London -- went on display yesterday in ''The Parachute Pavilion: An Open Design Competition for Coney Island,'' an exhibition that runs through Oct. 31 at the institute's gallery at 30 West 22nd Street in Chelsea. 
 The 864 submissions came from 46 countries and involved more than 2,000 participants. New Yorkers were the main or only designers for 150 entries, and Brooklyn residents were behind 54 of them.
 Proposals range from the fanciful to the mundane. They include advanced computer renderings and precise sketches drawn in felt-tip markers. Dozens of the most prominent proposal boards are arrayed along the long wall of the gallery, like leaves in a giant sketchbook, while the bulk of the entries are stacked in cubbyholes on the floor.
 Chosen in May, the winning entry -- by Kevin Carmody, Andrew Groarke, Chris Hardie and Lewis Kinneir -- envisions a bowtie-shaped building, 30 feet high, composed of two uneven trapezoids joined at their shorter ends and occupying most of the 7,800-square-foot site.
 Both trapezoids would be sheathed in pink-tinted glass interrupted by windows with ocean views and illuminated by scores of incandescent bulbs. Aglow around the clock, the structure would evoke the whimsy of Coney Island.
 The larger trapezoid would rest on a sand-colored concrete base, while the smaller forms a giant cantilever that extends over a pathway connecting KeySpan Park, a minor-league baseball stadium at the northeast corner of the site, to the Riegelmann Boardwalk along the beach.
 Inside the two-story trapezoid would be exhibition and office space, a restaurant and bar, and a small shopping area. A large triangular rooflight in one corner would allow views of the Parachute Jump's crown. 
 ''We were heavily influenced by the mythology and the history of Coney Island, and the idea that it was literally brought to life through electric lights,'' said Mr. Groarke, 33, a London native. ''That is our influence for the conceptual idea of the building -- that it should be almost smothered in a matrix of electric light bulbs.''
 New York City, which owns the land and has signaled that it will help finance the project, hopes to construct the pavilion by 2008. The cost remains unclear.
 Unlike many of the other entries, the winning design seems deliberately simple. ''Whilst the parachute jump is very figurative, the pavilion becomes very abstract -- a building made from extending lines,'' Mr. Groarke said. 
 Hundreds of other entrants placed a restaurant or pool atop the roof of the proposed pavilion, an idea that the winners considered but rejected. 
 While visitors might enjoy the views from a rooftop deck, such a design would have detracted from the towering amusement-park ride, said Mr. Hardie, 28, from Aberdeen, Scotland. ''You're never going to be higher than the Parachute Jump,'' he said.
 The second-place winners proposed a circular pavilion with a rooftop pool and seats coated in yellow polyurethane. The third-place winners would have made the entire pavilion a giant bleacher for outdoor performances. A few proposals jettisoned the design guidelines, using the site as a giant dispenser of drinking water or folding chairs.
 Mr. Groarke and Mr. Carmody, a 31-year-old from Canberra, Australia, are trying to start their own architectural practice in London. They plan to work with Mr. Hardie and Mr. Kinneir, a 24-year-old Londoner, on other design competitions. 
 Sherida E. Paulsen, the chairwoman of the institute, said this competition was the largest it had ever sponsored. The institute was established in 1894 and renamed in 1996 for William Van Alen, who designed the Chrysler Building.
 The origins of the project reach back into Coney Island's fabled history.
 The Parachute Jump, modeled after Army training equipment, had two-person seats that dropped a stomach-turning 250 feet. After the World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens, it was moved in 1941 to Steeplechase Park, one of the three historic amusement parks within Coney Island. 
 It was an inauspicious time. ''The fair was coming at a low point in terms of the development of Coney Island,'' said Michael Immerso, a cultural historian and author of ''Coney Island: The People's Playground,'' who identifies the area's zenith as the first decade of the 20th century. In 1964 Steeplechase Park was demolished and the forlorn site became a symbol of blight, but the Parachute Jump remained a nostalgic touchstone. ''There are countless images of sailors and other servicemen in uniform, taking their sweethearts for rides on the Parachute Jump,'' Mr. Immerso said.
 The Van Alen Institute announced the competition in November. During two days in May the entries were winnowed down to three placing teams and nine honorable mentions. The judges included Joshua Sirefman, president of the Coney Island Development Corporation, a nonprofit group created by the city in 2003. 
 Several judges praised the process, even if they did not favor the outcome. ''I wanted something that was a little warmer and in more of a human scale,'' said Charles R. Denson, the author of ''Coney Island: Lost and Found,'' who said he voted for the second-place winner, by a pair of Dutch-born architects.
 Mr. Sirefman said that he was committed to working with the architects to realize as much of their proposal as possible. ''The next step is to understand how to make this achievable,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in The Arts on Thursday with the continuation of an article about a competition to design a pavilion near the Parachute Jump in Coney Island reversed the names for two members of the winning team. Andrew Groarke was at left and Chris Hardie at right.
 In addition, captions were reversed for pictures of two other pavilion designs. The design in the top photo, incorporating orange mats, was by Marc Hopperman and Goetz Elmar Schrader of Vienna; the jelly fish-shaped design in the middle photo was by David Campos and Ursula Schneider of New York.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Parachute Jump at Coney Island in 1952 is being re-envisioned. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. E1)
The competition winners Chris Hardie, left, and Andrew Groarke. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
Honorable mention: David Campos and Ursula Schneider of New York.
A design by Marc Hoppermann and Goetz Elmar Schrader of Vienna.
 An entry from Antoine Lacronique and Philippe Rommelaere of Paris. (Photographs courtesy of the Van Alen Institute)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BASEBALL (67%); BEACHES (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%) Amusement and Theme Parks; Architecture; Contests and Prizes

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Van Alen Institute; Economic Development Corp (NYC) 

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (51%); NG (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (88%); FRANCE (56%) Coney Island (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



404 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: In Unexpected Medicare Benefit, U.S. Will Offer Doctors Free Electronic Records System

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
There is no one in medicine who does not consider it both crucial and long overdue to have electronic records in doctor's offices and hospitals.
 With electronic files, patient records are not stuck on pieces of paper in endless files, but are on a screen at the touch of a key. The computers alert doctors to do medical tests and avert errors by warning when they write a prescription for the wrong drug or the wrong dose. Patients can often see their own files and even make their own appointments, online, from their homes.
 But most doctors have balked. The systems cost tens of thousands of dollars, and doctors worry that the companies selling them and providing support will go out of business. Many use computers to file health insurance claims, but only 20 percent to 25 percent of the nation's 650,000 licensed doctors outside the military and the Department of Veterans Affairs are using electronic patient records. 
 Now, however, Medicare, which says the lack of electronic records is one of the biggest impediments to improving health care, has decided to step in. In an unprecedented move, it said it planned to announce that it would give doctors -- free of charge -- software to computerize their medical practices. An office with five doctors could save more than $100,000 by choosing the Medicare software rather than buying software from a private company, officials say. 
 The program begins next month, and the software is a version of a well-proven electronic health record system, called Vista, that has been used for two decades by hospitals, doctors and clinics with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Medicare will also provide a list of companies that have been trained to install and maintain the system.
 Given Medicare's heft, the software giveaway could transform American medicine, said Dr. John Wasson, a Dartmouth Medical School health care researcher.
 But, Dr. Wasson added, it may take a while. ''If you look at it from a five-year point of view, it will make a huge difference,'' he said. 
 At first, he predicted, many doctors will bide their time, to see just how good Vista is.
 Dr. Alan Garber, a Stanford University economist and internist, said of the Medicare plan: ''It's a good idea. It's not foolproof.''
 But, Dr. Garber added, Medicare's investment and the program's many appealing features ''are all signals that it might be around for a long time and a doctor in a small office would not be taking an enormous risk.'' 
 Medicare has not estimated what its software giveaway is worth. But Duncan Pringle, chief Vista technologist at Perot Systems, said that each doctor in a practice paid about $20,000 to $25,000 to get started with a commercial system, including costs of software, a license fee charged to each doctor, installation and servicing. 
 Installing Vista would cost $10,000 to $12,000 for an entire medical practice. That means that a practice of five doctors might pay $100,000 to computerize, but if the doctors used the Medicare system they might pay only $10,000 for the whole office. 
 The problem is that Vista has a reputation for being extremely difficult to install. Medicare says it modified and simplified it for doctors' offices, but it remains to be seen whether doctors will want it. 
 Doctors are well aware that even with free software, no system is really free.
 ''Vista is a good system and it all sounds great,'' said Dr. Thomas Jevon, a family physician in Wakefield, Mass. But, he added, ''anyone who uses a computer can get frustrated and waste time trying to make it work.'' 
 And for doctors, whose time is typically valued at $250 an hour, that time adds up.
 ''If a program takes 10 minutes away from your hour each day, that is costing you tens of thousands of dollars a year,'' Dr. Jevon said. ''That's what's bugging doctors.'' 
 There is little doubt that computerized offices can help. For instance, Dr. Kevin Toppenberg recently saw an emergency patient who had injured his leg at the beach and arrived at his office wincing in pain. The patient's regular doctor, one of Dr. Toppenberg's 14 colleagues, practiced in another of the group's three offices in Greeneville, Tenn., and was taking the day off. 
 In a typical medical practice, the man's records would ordinarily be in a paper file in his own doctor's office and a colleague in another office would have no way of getting them. Dr. Toppenberg, like many other doctors, would rather send such a patient to an emergency room than see him without a medical record. 
 ''To just be working blind is scary for doctors,'' Dr. Toppenberg said.
 But Dr. Toppenberg's newly installed computer program let him see the man's record immediately, on a computer screen. After examining the man and diagnosing a probable torn muscle, Dr. Toppenberg sent him to an orthopedist. Then Dr. Toppenberg added his findings to the man's record so his colleague would have them instantly when he needed to consult them.
 The Vista project began a few years ago when Medicare officials realized that help for small medical practices was in its own backyard. The federal government had already paid hundreds of millions of dollars to develop Vista, and now uses it in the Veterans Administration's 1,300 inpatient and outpatient facilities, which maintain more than 10 million records and treat more than five million veterans a year. Why not give Vista to doctors?
 In fact, though few knew, Vista had been available all along to anyone who submitted a Freedom of Information Act request. 
 Over the years, the program had accrued a passionate following and even an organization, World Vista, founded in 2002 mostly by V.A. employees to help spread it throughout the world. One reason for their enthusiasm was that no company owns Vista so anyone can modify and enhance it. 
 It is, said Joseph Dal Molin, director of World Vista, a survival of the fittest. ''What's good survives,'' he said.
 One feature, for example, was suggested by a V.A. nurse. Why not put a bar code on a prescription bottle to identify the drug and its dose, put a bar code on the patient's wristband to identify the patient's prescription, and then scan the drug label and the patient's wristband before administering a drug? If there was a discrepancy, Vista could catch it before an error was made. Programmers added that feature, and V.A. drug errors plummeted by 80 percent overnight.
 Still, it is one thing to use a system that someone else installed and someone else maintains. It is another to get a set of disks in the mail and do it yourself. 
 Giving out a version of Vista is ''a great idea,'' said Dr. David Kibbe, director of the center for health information technology at the American Academy of Family Physicians, a group that has been working on the project. ''But at the beginning, there was a lot of wishful thinking. They said, 'We'll just release it.' I said, 'Where's the fairy dust?'''
 Those who tried to install Vista on their own would agree.
 Dr. Nancy Anthracite, a family physician in Washington, needed endless hours of help from a group of Vista enthusiasts who call themselves the Hardhats and volunteer their time. Getting started with Vista was so daunting, Dr. Anthracite said, that even when the V.A. demonstrated its program at medical meetings, almost no none of those in attendance wanted to use it on their own.
 ''You go to meetings and they show you things doctors can do with Vista and everyone's going , 'Wow, wow, wow,''' Dr. Anthracite said. ''But no one installs it.''
 So for three years, Medicare and its contractors worked to make the program easier to use. 
 They even gave it a new name, VistaOffice, to signify that was intended for small-office practices, not the huge V.A. system.
 Some, including Dr. Toppenberg, decided not to wait for the August release of the new program. Last year, he learned that he could get the unmodified V.A. version of Vista and decided to try it.
 ''I started looking around,'' Dr. Toppenberg said. ''The newer systems tended to be about $15,000 per doctor, not counting the ongoing support fees. Then I found out that the Vista system was available. You just have to figure out how to get it to work.'' 
 He did -- but it took him six months. 
 Anyone who wants the new Vista, which is expected to require far fewer steps to install than the V.A.'s version, must wait until August. Some, like Dr. Meyer Cohen, an internist in Boca Raton, Fla., want to see how it works before committing time and money to it. 
 But a few, like Dr. Ismet B. Kursunoglu, director of the Alaska Clinic in Wasilla, Alaska, cannot wait. 
 ''There are a lot of fantastic vendors,'' Dr. Kursunoglu said, ''but, realistically, we're in a time period where reimbursement is going down and costs are rising. This is free.''
 ''This,'' he said, ''is a fantastic opportunity.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Kevin Toppenberg and the other physicians in a medical practice in Greeneville, Tenn., use the Vista electronic health records system. (Photo by Benjamin Porter for The New York Times)Chart/Diagram: ''Health Files Made Easy''Starting in August, Medicare will be distributing free to physicians an electronic health record system called Vista that has been used for two decades by hospitals, doctors and clinics with the Department of Veterans Affairs.Diagram of Vista software on the computer screen.(Source by Joseph Dal Molin, World Vista)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (54%) Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Doctors; Hospitals

COMPANY: DELL PEROT SYSTEMS CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Medicare; Veterans Affairs Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



405 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Adding Up the Oil-for-Food Payoffs

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger (www.krueger.princeton.edu) is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University.

 BODY:
''IN my old age,'' Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, told me, ''I've learned that there's a lot of corruption in the world.'' Mr. Volcker, who heads the independent committee investigating the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, was not talking about the program per se, but about corruption in general. 
 A new study by Chang-Tai Hsieh and Enrico Moretti, two economists at the University of California, Berkeley, sheds light on just how much corruption could have taken place in exchange for oil sales in the oil-for-food program. Although their estimate greatly exceeds the Central Intelligence Agency's figure, the amount of kickbacks and political favors given for lucrative oil deals was still fairly limited, probably no more than 3 percent of the total oil revenue collected, they concluded. 
The methods used by Professors Hsieh and Moretti clearly show how economics can be used to gauge the extent of corruption. 
 Under the oil-for-food program, Iraq could sell a limited quantity of oil and use the proceeds for purposes approved by the United Nations, mostly purchases of food and medicine and compensation for victims of the first Persian Gulf war.
 Iraq was permitted to sell to buyers of its choosing; Saddam Hussein personally reviewed the list. From the first oil sales in March 1997 until September 2001, the selling price had to be approved by United Nations overseers at the beginning of each month. 
 Oil is a commodity, so a given grade of crude oil should trade for the same price. 
 Here is why the price matters. Suppose that Iraq's leaders sought bribes or political favors, and that the market price of crude oil was $50 a barrel. If Iraq offered to sell its oil for $50, then buyers would have no incentive to provide kickbacks for the privilege of buying Iraqi oil; they could have bought the same grade of oil for the same price from another supplier without having to pay kickbacks. To give buyers an incentive to pay kickbacks, Iraq would have to underprice its oil. 
 The Berkeley professors have amassed compelling evidence that Iraq underpriced its oil, in all likelihood for the purpose of obtaining bribes and political favors. 
 Iraq produces two types of crude oil, Basra light (from the Rumaila oil fields) and Kirkuk oil. Professors Hsieh and Moretti compared the price at which Iraq sold oil with the weekly price of its closest competitors: Arabian light from Saudi Arabia, for Basra light, and Urals oil from Russia, for Kirkuk oil. 
 In the 15 years before the oil-for-food program began, there was no difference in price between either type of Iraqi oil and that of its closest competitor, on average. When the program was in effect, however, the price of Basra light fell more than $2 a barrel below the price of Arabian light, and the price per barrel of Kirkuk oil was 70 cents below Urals oil. 
 The gap was particularly large in 2000 and 2001, reaching $5 for Basra light and $1 for Kirkuk oil. The Volcker committee cited testimony that Iraq deliberately sought to underprice its oil in late 2000 for the purpose of collecting surcharges outside of the United Nations program. 
 In response to rumors that bribes were being paid for Iraqi oil, the United Nations switched in September 2001 to a retroactive pricing system, in which buyers learned the price of oil only after it was loaded onto their tankers and the world price was known. This made it much harder for Iraq to charge less than the market price -- and, in fact, there is little sign of underpricing after 2001. 
 Although not all 1,300 oil transactions during the program could be examined in detail, the pattern of traders selected to buy oil by the Iraqi regime hints of corruption. In periods when Iraqi oil was underpriced the most, small traders were much more likely to be selected than major oil companies, which are probably less likely to pay kickbacks. 
 Over the entire life of the oil-for-food program, Professors Hsieh and Moretti estimate, oil was underpriced by $6 billion, with this extra profit divided almost equally between small and large companies.
 If small companies returned half their extra profit to Iraq to secure lucrative oil contracts, the regime would have reaped $1.4 billion in kickbacks. Not all of this money had to be paid in cash surcharges, however. Iraq also sought political help to ease the trade sanctions, and oil traders had an incentive to use their political influence to lobby on Iraq's behalf in exchange for oil contracts. 
 By comparison, the Iraq Survey Group reported to the C.I.A. that Iraq received $230 million in cash surcharges on oil sales, based on a review of Iraq's Oil Ministry records. This figure, however, misses some bribes and the implicit value of any political favors. 
 Although corruption tainted the oil-for-food program, especially on the procurement side, Professor Moretti said that by ''making the minor change to retroactive pricing, the U.N. was able to undercut the scope of bribery at essentially no cost.'' He further said that for all the criticism it has received, the oil-for-food program did manage to deliver more than $30 billion of humanitarian aid to Iraq, while the country was apparently prevented from obtaining weapons of mass destruction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); APPROVALS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DESERT STORM (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



406 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Critical Shopper; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Philosophy by Tar-zhay

BYLINE: By Alex Kuczynski

 BODY:
WHEN Siddhartha Gautama, the young man who later became known as Buddha, attained enlightenment, he saw the path to fulfillment: keep earthly belongings to a minimum. Stuff -- material possessions, goodies, thingamajigs -- was spiritual dead weight. 
 So I wonder what Buddha would make of the Target store in Mount Kisco, N.Y., which opened in the spring.
On a recent visit, I counted no fewer than 10 Buddha items for sale. In the home furnishings section, a bust of Buddha was $17.99. I also found a framed sketch of Buddha; a Buddha T-shirt; a Buddha candleholder; a Buddha that looked as if it might have been a bar of soap; and a fake stone relief in a shadowbox frame in which Buddha, with a goofy smile on his face, looked just like Homer Simpson. D'om! 
 Buddha, of course, is an appropriate symbol for Target's path to consumer enlightenment. I doubt you will find a Buddha anything at Wal-Mart, Kmart or Sears. But a crucial part of Target's success is that it makes an effort to attract not just consumers who, by financial necessity, shop at discount superstores, but also those members of the middle- and upper-income brackets who view discount shopping as a socioeconomic field trip. 
 These are the people who pronounce the name of the store Tar-ZHAY, and one of their mascots is the very representation of faddish faux-bohemian kitsch, Mr. Buddha himself. 
 To get these upscale shoppers into the store to acquire earthly goods, Target has to convince them there is something inside worth acquiring and worthy of placement in their homes as discount objet: a Michael Graves teapot, for example, or a cashmere sweater by Isaac Mizrahi (coming to Target stores this fall).
 The chain's advertising and marketing campaigns are always of the moment. Sometimes it sponsors temporary boutiques in fashionable locations. One year it opened a summer store in the Hamptons; another time it docked a ''holiday boat'' at Chelsea Piers in Manhattan. The company has also developed relationships with of-the-moment artists, sponsoring an installation at Rockefeller Center by the artist Takashi Murakami, who has collaborated with Louis Vuitton. 
 Target is the third largest discount retailer in the United States, after Wal-Mart and Costco, and its ''class to mass'' strategy has prompted changes at other discounters. Kmart has arrangements with the WB and E! Entertainment Television, in which network stars wear Kmart clothes. In 2002, Wal-Mart introduced George, an inexpensive designer clothing line it acquired in 1999. But the line has, thus far, failed to transform Wal-Mart's image as the dowdy cousin of the discount bunch. 
 Sure, Target's image is more sophisticated than Wal-Mart's. But two things seriously bug me about the chain.
 First, the affiliation with designers like Mr. Graves and Mr. Mizrahi strikes me as a bit of lip service. They certainly add a hip note to the store's advertising campaigns, but at the Mount Kisco store, one of 1,351 nationwide, there was not much Graves merchandise on display. I couldn't find a teapot, but I did find an ergonomic paper shredder in the Graves half-aisle beneath a picture of a woman who looked like the actress Felicity Huffman and the words ''I like to coordinate my keyboard with my toaster.'' 
 These are dark days for the middle classes if such ambitious, obsessive coordinating is actually taking place.
 The Mizrahi clothes are well intentioned, but a cardigan sweater for $22.99 in an acrylic-nylon blend is shapeless and itchy. I did find an attractive faux-crocodile Mizrahi clutch purse for $16.99, but later the same day I found it on the Target Web site for $11.89. Why bother buying it in the store? 
 A spokeswoman for Target said that prices are not always consistent. She could not specify why there seemed to be a lack of Michael Graves merchandise but suggested that the store could have been transitioning between products.
 The second thing that bothers me is the disconnect when mixing highbrow and lowbrow culture. At the front of the Mount Kisco store is a Starbucks, where shoppers can pause for a Mint Mocha Chip Frappuccino for $4.90 (for the venti), without tax. Three aisles into the store they can buy a pair of children's sneakers for $3.74. In what other country on the planet would you find a store that sells a cup of coffee for more than a pair of children's shoes? 
 This is the problem of the class-and-mass approach: There will always be rich people, and there will always be poor people, and they can happily mingle in economic anonymity in the aisles of Target. But at the end of the day you'll be able to tell one from the other by who is sitting at the Starbucks counter drinking a $5 latte. 
 There is, however, a lot to like about Target. Many shoppers frequent stores whose corporate policies they admire, and though Target has not entirely avoided the kind of labor squabbles that have dogged Wal-Mart in recent years, it is better known for its contributions to civic and cultural causes. And it does keep bringing in new ideas and designs. At Mount Kisco, I found California Closets, Liz Lange maternity clothes, Eddie Bauer travel gear and a great line of casual clothing by Mossimo. I liked some of the Mizrahi home pieces -- a table lamp in the shape of a ship's light for $34.99, for instance. 
 In October, Target plans to introduce a ''vintage modern'' home furniture collection in collaboration with Aero Studios. Its in-store pharmacies now offer a design for prescription bottles that is meant to make taking drugs safer by identifying the right pills to take. And you have to admire a store that prompted Wal-Mart to start stocking 400-thread-count cotton sheets. 
 I piled my shopping cart high with earthly possessions. The dressing rooms were clean and bright, although service-free. (The bathroom was by far the cleanest one I have visited in any store, anywhere.) 
 I skipped the Buddha tea lights but burdened myself with many other items: a large mirror to hang on a guest bedroom wall and six other smaller ones for around the house; a leather lamp; a silk lampshade; two pairs of hiking shorts, a pair of Mossimo camouflage pants and three pairs of underwear for my stepson; seven pairs of underwear and a pair of Hello Kitty flip-flops for my stepdaughter; Mossimo blue jeans for me; 20 sturdy wooden hangers; a box of Ritz Bitz cheese crackers, half of which I ate in the parking lot and the rest of which I threw into the garbage before I could eat any more; a copy of People magazine; a bottle of water.
 The bill was $234.42. 

Target
195A North Bedford Road, Mount Kisco, N.Y.; (914)602-0004

ATMOSPHERE -- Bright lights and the sound of screaming infants make for a less than serene experience. Take Excedrin.
SERVICE -- Hello. It's a discount superstore.
KEY ITEMS -- Home furnishings in the Global section, including imported throws from Turkey and glassware from Sweden.
PRICES -- Inexpensive.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE BIG RED DOT -- Modern-day emblem of chic bargain shoppers. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 A PLACE OF PLENTY -- Nathan Griffin, 9, perched outside the Target store in Mount Kisco, N.Y., where shoppers can find children's sneakers for $3.74 and a venti Frappuccino for $4.90. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. G4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (86%); SPONSORSHIP (85%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); KMART CORP (85%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (63%); E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Target Stores

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (87%); MC (PAR) (63%); LVMH (BIT) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: Alex Kuczynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Mount Kisco (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



407 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Industry Ratings Board Changes Label On Grand Theft Auto Game to 'Adults Only'
The video game industry's ratings board changed the label on the game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas to ''Adults Only'' from ''Mature,'' effectively removing it from most store shelves in the United States. [A1.]

Greenspan Says Rate Increases Will Continue
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the central bank would keep raising interest rates and gave little hint of when it might stop. [C1.]

Cnooc Must Weigh Next Move in Battle for Unocal
Chevron may have regained the upper hand by persuading Unocal to accept its sweetened bid against a higher offer from Cnooc, a government-backed Chinese oil company. But it might not have delivered the knockout blow it was looking for in the monthlong takeover battle. [C1.]

Early Departure by Weill Could Affect Perks
Sanford I. Weill reportedly wants to step down early as chairman of Citigroup to start a private equity firm, but a committee of the board has said that would affect the terms of his employment contract, including the number of perks available to him. [C1.]

Commission to Urge End of Alternative Minimum Tax
President Bush's tax advisory commission will recommend abolishing the alternative minimum tax for individuals, the commission chairman said. [C1.]

Kodak Says It Will Lay Off 10,000 More Employees
Eastman Kodak said it would lay off up to 10,000 people over the next two years as it tries to speed its transition to digital photography from film, a business the company pioneered and dominated for decades. The announcement of the layoffs, which will be in addition to the 15,000 job cuts announced in 2004, came as Kodak posted its third consecutive quarterly loss. [C7.]

General Motors reported its third consecutive losing quarter as surging sales in June did not translate into profits. [C3.]

Impasse Between Northwest and Mechanics
The National Mediation Board declared an impasse in bitter negotiations over a $176 million cost savings plan between Northwest Airlines and the union that represents the airline's 5,100 mechanics. [C3.]

In a tentative sign of momentum in the airline industry, Continental Airlines and the parent of American Airlines had better-than-expected results. [C3.]

CardSystems Chief Executive Criticizes Visa
The chief executive of CardSystems Solutions, John M. Perry, fired back at Visa, sharply criticizing it for stopping his company from processing its cardholders' transactions on the eve of a Congressional hearing. [C7.]

Merck Training Video Shown at Vioxx Trial
Merck told its sales representatives that its painkiller Vioxx did not increase the risk of heart attacks, according to a Merck training video played for jurors in the first Vioxx lawsuit to reach trial. [C4.]

Consumer Group Sues Sprint and Cingular
A California consumer advocacy group said in complaints that Sprint and Cingular Wireless had duped cellphone customers into overpaying. [C5.]

3 Title Insurers to Pay $22.8 Million Settlement
The three largest title insurers in the country agreed to pay $22.8 million to settle charges that they paid kickbacks for business referrals. [C6.]

U.S. Examines Johnson & Johnson Drug Marketing
Johnson & Johnson's aggressive marketing of its heart-failure treatment Natrecor has become the subject of a Justice Department inquiry. [C4.]

A New Top Editor at The Los Angeles Times
John S. Carroll, the editor of The Los Angeles Times, said that he was leaving the paper ''for professional and personal reasons'' and that Dean P. Baquet, the paper's managing editor, would take his place as top editor. [C5.]

Trading Results Cut Into J.P. Morgan Chase Profit
J.P. Morgan Chase reported a profit for the second quarter as its consumer businesses posted healthy gains, but poor trading results and a big legal settlement cut into its results. James Dimon, the firm's president and chief operating officer, left, told Wall Street analysts in a conference call that trading results were already improving. ''We're in the risk-taking business, and sometimes we're going to be wrong,'' he said. [C4.]

Meditating on a Major Career Change
Almost everyone, it seems, is bailing out of the rat race and starting a yoga business. Small Business. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Eastman Kodak shares since April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); COMPUTER GAMES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TAKEOVERS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SALES FORCE (71%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (71%); SALES & SELLING (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); TAX CONSULTING (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (64%); JURY TRIALS (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (62%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); LITIGATION (60%); PRIVATE EQUITY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (68%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (66%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (53%); UAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (66%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); SANDY WEILL (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



408 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Georgia Police Detain Suspect In Failed Attack At Bush Speech

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, July 20 

 BODY:
The police on Wednesday detained a man suspected of throwing a live grenade in May during a rally where President Bush was speaking, the Interior Ministry said. The capture came after a shootout in which one police officer was killed and another was wounded.
 The shootout and detention occurred Wednesday evening in the village of Vashlisdzhvari, outside the capital, Tbilisi, said an Interior Ministry spokesman, Guram Donadze. The suspect fled into the woods but was later detained, Mr. Donadze said. 
 Rustavi-2 television showed pictures of a dark-haired man it described as the suspect being hustled into a car by police officers. It said he was wounded and identified him as Vladimir Arutyunov, in his late 20's.
 The man lived in an eight-story apartment building with his mother, according to Rustavi-2, which reported that neighbors had said Mr. Arutyunov was unemployed. The report could not immediately be confirmed.
 Eric Zahren, a spokesman for the United States Secret Service, said the agency was monitoring the investigation by the Georgian authorities. ''We were not directly involved and not present'' at the arrest, he said.
 The arrest came two days after authorities released a photograph of a man with dark hair and dark glasses suspected of throwing the grenade. Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili had also announced a reward of about $80,000 for information leading to the man's identity.
 The grenade, which failed to explode, was thrown at a podium where Mr. Bush was speaking May 10 before tens of thousands of people. President Mikhail Saakashvili was also on the podium, raising the prospect that the grenade had been directed at him.
 Mr. Saakashvili, who came to power after the 2003 Rose Revolution, in which Eduard A. Shevardnadze was ousted, has provoked enmity with his anticorruption initiatives and insistence on restoring control over two separatist regions.
 Mr. Bush spoke from behind bulletproof glass, addressing a huge crowd in a main Tbilisi square as part of a visit aimed at cementing relations between the United States and Georgia's new pro-Western leadership.
 The grenade landed less than 100 feet from the podium. A preliminary investigation indicated the grenade malfunctioned, the F.B.I said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A special police officer at the door of a vehicle with a man suspected of tossing a grenade in May near President Bush in Tbilisi, Georgia. (Photo by Irakli Gedenidze/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); POLITICS (73%); CORRUPTION (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Grenades; Television; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (56%) Rustavi-2 (Georgian Republic Television)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir Arutyunov; Eric Zahren

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); Tbilisi (Georgia); Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



409 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Keep Rate Policy In Place

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Wednesday that the central bank would keep raising interest rates and gave little hint of when it might stop.
 The Fed chairman also stepped up his effort to use language rather than direct policy to suggest that investors take greater heed of long-term risks -- especially homebuyers.
After having discounted worries about a speculative bubble in housing prices in the past, Mr. Greenspan suggested for the first time on Wednesday that a drop in housing prices was possible. 
 In one of his last rounds of testimony to Congress before his scheduled retirement in January, Mr. Greenspan offered a fairly optimistic prediction of steady growth and low inflation through next year.
 But his tone was tougher and blunter about the need for additional protection from inflation. Having presided over nine interest rate increases since June 2004, Mr. Greenspan signaled that three or four more were likely by the end of the year. 
 He expressed unease about rising labor costs and slowing growth in productivity, and his message seemed to be that the economy is strong enough to handle higher borrowing costs.
 Fulfilling the benign forecast for ''reasonably good'' economic growth and low inflation, he said without qualifications, ''will require the Federal Reserve to continue to remove monetary accommodation.'' 
 That, along with a repeat of the Fed's long-standing goal of raising rates at a ''measured'' pace, means that the central bank is likely to raise rates by quarter-point increments from 3.25 percent today to about 4 percent by the end of the year.
 The Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks is up from 1 percent in June 2004. Investors have been waiting for the Fed to hint that rates were close to a ''neutral'' level that neither slows the economy nor promotes inflation. 
 Even though inflation has been unexpectedly low over the last two months -- the consumer price index was flat in May and June -- the Fed chairman expressed unease about rising labor costs and slowing growth in productivity. ''Those costs have turned up of late, and whether the favorable trends of the past few years will be maintained is unclear,'' he told members of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 Fed officials view labor costs as the most important source of inflation, both because labor costs amount to more than two-thirds of total costs and because they can feed a self-perpetuating spiral of higher prices and higher wage demands.
 The United States, Mr. Greenspan cautioned, may not be able to rely on the rapid increases in productivity that it had enjoyed for the last five years. ''Strong gains in efficiency have buoyed real incomes and restrained inflation,'' he said. ''But experience suggests that such rapid advances are unlikely to be maintained in an economy that has reached the cutting edge of technology.''
 In many ways, the Fed's stance is the mirror image of its stance two years ago. In 2003, Mr. Greenspan argued that it made sense to keep interest rates extraordinarily low as a form of ''insurance'' against a Japanese-style deflation in prices.
 Today, despite surprisingly low inflation at a time of high oil prices, Fed officials view higher interest rates as an insurance policy against inflation.
 David Rosenberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said Mr. Greenspan was tougher than he had expected.
 ''We had expected Mr. Greenspan to be less hawkish today than he was,'' Mr. Rosenberg wrote in a note to clients on Wednesday. ''But such was not the case, and we must face the reality that more rate hikes are coming.''
 In its updated economic forecast, the Federal Reserve predicted slightly slower growth and slightly higher inflation for 2005 and 2006, both due in large part to higher prices for imported oil.
 The ''central tendency'' of forecasts by the Fed's 12 regional banks was for growth to average 3.5 percent this year and next, rather than the 3.75 percent predicted in February. The prediction called for the rate of core inflation, excluding the price of food and energy, to be just under 2 percent. 
 That outlook for inflation is within the Fed's unofficial comfort zone, but it assumes that the central bank will continue to increase the cost of borrowing.
 One reason that the Fed continues to push higher is that long-term interest rates and mortgage rates, which the central bank does not directly control, remain so low that housing prices continue to soar at double-digit rates.
 But more so than in the past, Mr. Greenspan warned that bond investors as well as homebuyers may have been lulled into a false sense of complacency that interest rates and inflation will remain low for years to come. 
 ''History cautions that long periods of relative stability often engender unrealistic expectations of its permanence,'' he said. And these unrealistic expectations, ''may lead to financial excess and economic stress.''
 Mr. Greenspan refrained from using words like ''irrational exuberance'' or ''conundrum'' to describe investor behavior, but he made a direct link between complacency about long-term interest rates and the boom in housing prices.
 And he suggested that possibility of a drop in housing prices.
 ''The U.S. economy has weathered such episodes before without experiencing significant declines in the national average of housing prices,'' he said. ''Nevertheless, we certainly cannot rule out declines in home prices, especially in local markets.''
 At the same time, he made it clear that he was not overly worried. A decline in housing prices ''would be accompanied by some economic stress,'' he said, but ''the macroeconomic implications need not be substantial.''
 Mr. Greenspan remained sanguine about the nearly negligible rate of household savings, predicting that the savings rate will rise as soon as homeowners slow the pace at which they take out home equity loans.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, testified yesterday in Congress (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)(pg. C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



410 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Sudan Still Paying Militias Harassing Darfur, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, July 20 

 BODY:
The Sudanese government, after promising a parade of foreign leaders over the past year to rein in the violence in Darfur, is still paying regular salaries to leaders of militias there that continue to attack and kill civilians, say American officials and aid workers stationed in Sudan.
 At least 180,000 people in Darfur have died since 2003. 
 International aid organizations say the attacks have diminished in recent months. But State Department officials say because government-financed militias and others have been so successful at intimidating or killing civilian residents, now almost everyone who might have been a target is either dead or living in a refugee camp. The camps, spread across Darfur and over the western border in Chad, now hold more than two million people. 
 Yet the militias remain armed and poised in the western provinces, American government officials say. The militias also continue to train and arm recruits. At a recent ceremony for 400 recruits, senior Sudanese military officers applauded the graduates, African peacekeepers who saw it told aid workers. 
 The International Crisis Group, a private organization, said in a report two weeks ago that militia leaders ''remain on the payroll of the state governments,'' which are branches of the federal government. Colin S. Thomas-Jensen, media assistant for the group, said the information came from ''interviews with government officials in Darfur who oversaw the payments to the militias.''
 A senior administration official traveling with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who arrived here Wednesday evening for talks with Sudanese government leaders about the problems in Darfur, said she intended to raise the issue of the continuing payments to militia leaders and demand they be stopped. Earlier on Wednesday, she repeated the Bush administration's view that the killing in Darfur is genocide. 
 But given the history of Sudanese pledges to end the violence, Ms. Rice said, she is ''unwilling to accept representations'' from the Sudanese government on its efforts in Darfur. The Sudanese government has made such promises to the former secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, Secretary General Kofi Annan and Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoellick, among others. 
 Ms. Rice is also in Sudan to encourage the formation of the national unity government, which was set up early this month after a peace agreement in a long civil war with southern rebels. 
 For some present and former Sudanese officials, her role is part of the problem. Last year the United States helped broker the accord that led to the new government, which took office July 9. That, these officials said, may prevent the United States from being as forceful as it wants because it must depend on the Sudanese government to carry out the north-south accord.
 ''It is true they wanted the north-south agreement, and therefore they minimized Darfur,'' Richard C. Holbrooke, United Nations ambassador during the Clinton administration, said in an interview describing the American role. ''But I am not sure they were wrong. The north-south conflict killed three million people, more or less. But they'' -- the administration -- ''stuck with it too long, and that was a mistake.'' 
 Mr. Zoellick, who is now the administration's lead official on Sudan and has visited three times in three months, dismissed that concern. At least since he first took on the issue in April, Mr. Zoellick said in an interview this week, ''I haven't found an impediment'' in trying to work both issues at the same time.
 Realizing that the government of Sudan cannot be counted on to end the violence, the United States, the United Nations and the African Union have tried to create a shadow security force in Darfur to protect the residents. 
 About 2,300 soldiers from several African nations have been stationed here since late last year, serving as peacekeepers -- or monitors, as they are called. The force is not adequate for the need, though, and poorly armed. Their numbers are far too few to patrol Darfur, which is the size of France.
 At a news conference in Dakar, Senegal, on Wednesday, Cheikh Tidiane Gadio, the Senegalese foreign minister, said his country was ''totally dissatisfied'' with the African Union's response to the Darfur problem. Despite the presence of the African troops (including Senegalese), ''the militias are still very active, killing people, burning villages, raping women.''
 The African Union is increasing its force and hopes to have 7,700 soldiers here by September. In a pointed gesture aimed at Sudan's government, the State Department has arranged to have 390 Rwandan peacekeepers greet Ms. Rice on Thursday at El Fashir, on her way to the Abu Shouk refugee camp. United States Air Force planes attached to NATO ferried the troops to El Fashir. 
 At the news conference in Dakar, Ms. Rice noted that ''wherever there is monitoring, there is less violence.'' Still, she expressed frustration with the pace of deployment, saying, ''The A.U. has to move and cannot get caught up in any bureaucratic or political concerns.'' 
 Mr. Zoellick, in the interview, did give the government some credit.
 ''I do think the government of Sudan has made some adjustments as we have pressed,'' he said. ''They have welcomed the A.U. They welcomed NATO forces in their own country. Still to come is the problem of the militias. They are still in place, and there is still violence.''
 Administration officials said the evidence that the government was still paying militia leaders is anecdotal but convincing. Mr. Thomas-Jensen said the International Crisis Group was also present during the briefing by African Union troops who disclosed that they had seen Sudanese government officers ''at graduation ceremonies for 400 trainees.'' 
 Referring to government support for the militias, a senior administration official maintained that the United States was ''gradually hemming this in, but we have a long way to go.'' 
 In the meantime, Mr. Zoellick said, after ''a terrible phase where people were chased off their land'' over the last two years, ''that stage of the killing is complete.'' But Darfur, he added, ''is still a very dangerous place.'' 
 He was speaking to reporters on July 5, just before his third trip here. During a news conference here a few days later, he said ''people still face the dangers'' of the militias. 
 The United States maintains economic sanctions against Sudan and has not had an ambassador here since 1997. But by carrying out the north-south peace agreement on July 9, President Omar Hassan A. al-Bashier appeared to believe he had placated the United States. On July 13, he called on Washington to lift economic sanctions. 
 To that Ms. Rice, speaking to reporters on her plane, said, ''We still hold the Sudanese government accountable for what is going on in Darfur.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (86%); INTERVIEWS (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (74%); GENOCIDE (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) United States International Relations; Immigration and Refugees; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (56%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%) Joel Brinkley; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHAD (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



411 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: In Search of John Roberts

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Rosen. 
Jeffrey Rosen is a law professor at George Washington University and the legal affairs editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
HERE is what liberals and conservatives can agree on about John Roberts, President Bush's first Supreme Court nominee: He is perhaps the most impressive Supreme Court advocate of his generation, extremely intelligent, thoughtful and able -- a lawyer's lawyer. In a reasonable world, that should be enough to assure his confirmation with bipartisan enthusiasm. Unfortunately, Washington politics is anything but reasonable. 
 Judge Roberts takes pride in representing both sides of the political spectrum. He delighted environmental groups by convincing the Supreme Court that a freeze on development in an unspoiled part of Lake Tahoe didn't violate the private property rights of the affected landowners. He has argued for and against the constitutionality of affirmative action. For Mr. Roberts, the ability to ''argue a case round or argue it flat,'' as the lawyers say, is a point of pride.
As both an appellate lawyer and an appellate judge, he earned the reputation of a legal craftsman who didn't come to cases with preconceived grand theories, but took positions based on the arguments and legal materials in each case. 
 Judge Roberts is, by all accounts, a very nice man: funny, humble and decent. He treats judges and litigants with a Jimmy Stewart-like courtesy. He sends notes to associates whose children are sick. His winning personality has raised the hopes of conservatives who understand that the most influential justices are those who work well with their colleagues. 
 But here is where conservatives and liberals may part company about John Roberts: Conservatives hope he will be a William Brennan of the right, using his intelligence and charm on behalf of his deeply conservative views to move the court far to the right of where it was under the moderate influence of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor; liberals fear that conservatives are correct. 
 Liberals worry that a Justice Roberts might take a narrow view of Congress's power to regulate the economy that would impose severe limitations on the regulatory state. And they fear that he would vote to overturn Roe v. Wade, because in 1990, when he was a deputy solicitor general, he signed a brief in an abortion-financing case that included a footnote calling for Roe to be overturned. 
 How can the Senate cast light on the question of whether Judge Roberts is a conservative ideologue with an agenda to transform the law or a conservative incrementalist who may surprise liberals and conservatives alike with his independence? 
 To begin with, senators should forget about the government briefs Mr. Roberts signed about Roe v. Wade, school prayer and other hot button issues. It's clearly not fair to hold him accountable for defending the George H.W. Bush administration's official positions. After all, that was, at the time, his job.
 Instead, the Senate should explore Judge Roberts's judicial philosophy and temperament. He has been on the appellate court for only two years, however, so clues in his judicial record are necessarily sparse.
 But based on his record throughout his career, he does not appear to be a rigid Constitutional ''originalist'' in the tradition of Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas. These men believe that the Constitution should be strictly interpreted in light of its original understanding; they are willing (to different degrees) to overturn years of Supreme Court precedents in the name of constitutional fidelity. 
 Having spent decades arguing before courts rather than sitting on them, John Roberts has never embraced one grand legal theory to the exclusion of all others. On the contrary, he has been trained to cast a wide net in order to reach a convincing result. Inflexible originalism is a theory embraced by academics and crusaders, not practicing lawyers who must persuade judges of different stripes. 
 At the same time, Judge Roberts is not a former legislator -- as was Justice O'Connor -- and therefore he is not likely to be as willing to split every difference between liberals and conservatives. As an appellate lawyer forced to apply legal precedents, he was trained to believe that judges should provide clear answers to legal questions rather than keeping the country guessing. 
 So, are conservatives right to hope, and liberals right to fear, that as a justice, he would vote to overturn many of the 5-4 cases where Justice O'Connor sided with her more liberal colleagues? The best way for the senators to find an answer to this question is to explore Judge Roberts's view of precedents, which the lawyers call stare decisis, or ''let the decision stand.'' 
 In the confirmation hearings for his appellate judgeship, Mr. Roberts said he was bound to apply the Supreme Court's precedents. That was a good answer at the time, but it is no longer terribly relevant: as a Supreme Court justice, he would be free to overturn the court's earlier rulings. Would he read precedents broadly or narrowly? And under what circumstances might he vote to uphold precedents with which he disagrees? 
 The truth is that Judge Roberts probably doesn't have a well-thought-out theory of stare decisis. As an appellate lawyer and judge, he had no need or occasion to develop one. 
 IN fact, very few Supreme Court justices have developed a theory of stare decisis that is entirely satisfying. At one extreme there is Justice Thomas, who, according to his colleague Justice Scalia, is willing to overturn any precedent he thinks is inconsistent with the original understanding of the Constitution. At another extreme have been justices like John Marshall Harlan, who, in the name of judicial continuity, are very reluctant to overturn precedents, even those with which they disagree. 
 Perhaps one clue to Judge Roberts's leanings on the force of precedents can be found in the outlook of one of his judicial heroes, Henry Friendly, an appellate judge for whom he became a clerk in 1979. Friendly was famously cautious, a man devoted to incremental rather than radical legal change. It might be illuminating for the senators to ask Judge Roberts what he admired about Friendly, and why. 
 Another potentially fruitful line of questioning might center on Judge Roberts's views about the scope of Congress's power to regulate the environment and the economy. 
 As an appellate judge, his record on this crucial issue has been indistinct. In one case, he took an expansive view of Congress's power to condition the receipt of public funds on an agency's promise not to discriminate. In another, he took a much more restrictive view of Congress's power to regulate the environment. Some of his comments suggest that he thinks the court is correct to strike down federal laws on rare occasions, but that he may be unlikely to try to resurrect what some conservatives call ''the Constitution in exile,'' overturning decades of precedents and dismantling the regulatory state root and branch. 
 While it is appropriate for senators to ask Judge Roberts about specific cases, they might get him to reveal more of himself if they asked him about his vision of the role of the courts in democracy. When I interviewed him three years ago, I was impressed with his reverence for the law as something distinct from politics, his belief that courts should operate according to independent ideals of professionalism and neutrality, and, most of all, his apparent lack of anger, which sometimes mars the opinions of Justices Scalia and Thomas. 
 If his confirmation hearings confirm this impression, Judge Roberts may prove to be not only a great justice, but one whom principled liberals can embrace with gratitude and relief. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); JUDGES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); PROPERTY LAW (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LAKES (70%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (69%); CHURCH & STATE (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ABORTION (65%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); RELIGION (50%) Judges; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) ; Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (94%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jeffrey (Prof) Rosen; John G (Judge) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



412 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: China Revalues the Yuan

 BODY:
China's currency revaluation was not as big as the blame-Beijing-first crowd in Congress has been demanding. But it is the start of something big, and now it's up to Congress to show equal sense.
 For more than a decade, China has fixed the exchange rate of its currency, the yuan, to the dollar. That provided stability, helping China to weather the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 and supporting its subsequent economic growth. But in recent months, some members of Congress have threatened China with punitive tariffs, claiming that the practice of fixing the yuan to the dollar made Chinese products artificially cheap on global markets and hurt American exports. They overstated their case, but the political threat was clear. 
 To its credit, the administration has tried to restrain the Congressional neoprotectionists. That bought the Chinese some time, and yesterday, they acted. They loosely linked the yuan's value to a basket of currencies, pushing it up 2 percent against the dollar immediately and leaving open the possibility of a larger appreciation in the weeks and months ahead.
 The China bashers have been hoping for a revaluation of 10 percent or more, and we'll know better in the near future how far China is prepared to go. Right now, it is important to applaud China's willingness to act, and acknowledge the very substantial risks it is taking. The revaluation, for instance, is likely to attract currency speculators who will pour in the kind of money that feeds bubbles, which can burst with disastrous consequences.
 The anti-China crowd in Congress should also get serious about making a lasting dent in the budget deficit. Doing so would address global imbalances more effectively than a yuan revaluation because it would reduce the nation's need to borrow billions of dollars a day from abroad. In fact, the sooner Congress can see international imbalances as a problem largely of America's own making, the better.
 When China was rigidly fixing its exchange rate, it did so by buying vast amounts of United States Treasuries. Under its new flexible currency regime, the day may come when China will not need to buy as many Treasuries. But unless Washington curbs its deficits, the United States could still need China to buy its securities, and that situation could lead to sharply higher United States interest rates. 
 China needs a more flexible currency mainly to manage its own economy better. But the move should also be good for international trade relations if the United States can rise to the occasion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%) Editorials; Currency; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



413 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE INSURGENCY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Gunmen Abduct Algeria's Top Diplomat and a Colleague in Baghdad

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Ali Adeeb and Mofeed Agha contributed reporting from Baghdad for this article, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 21 

 BODY:
The top Algerian diplomat in Iraq and a fellow envoy were abducted in Baghdad on Thursday by gunmen in what appeared to be the latest strike in the insurgent campaign to drive Muslim diplomats from the country.
 The kidnapping of Ali Billaroussi, the top envoy, and Azzedine Belkadi took place in daylight hours in an upscale neighborhood and within sight of Iraqi guards at the Algerian and Omani Embassies, Interior Ministry and embassy officials said. No group took immediate responsibility for the kidnappings. 
 Earlier this month, the top Egyptian envoy in Iraq was kidnapped and is believed to have been killed, and two other Muslim diplomats were attacked. The violence could impair American efforts to persuade neighboring countries to upgrade diplomatic ties and send ambassadors here, moves considered critical to helping the new Iraqi government gain international legitimacy. 
 In political negotiations on Thursday, Sunni Arab leaders who had halted their participation in drafting a new constitution after two Sunni colleagues were assassinated on Tuesday issued tough new demands for resuming their involvement. The Sunnis had said they were withdrawing temporarily from the process, and their failure to return could jeopardize the government's drive for domestic political legitimacy.
 Kamal Hamdoun, who holds one of 17 seats allotted to the Sunni minority on the 71-member committee, called for an international investigation into the killings, contending that militias backed by the government may have been responsible. Since the spring, when the Shiite Arabs took power here after the January elections, Sunnis have been accusing Shiite militias and the uniformed Iraqi forces of quietly killing Sunni figures across the country. The government and the political parties in charge of the militias have denied the accusations.
 ''We blame the government because of the lack of security and the strong influence of armed militias in the country,'' Mr. Hamdoun said.
 The Sunnis also demanded that the rest of the constitutional committee stop working on the document, warning that any draft completed without Sunni input would be considered illegitimate. Sheik Humam Hamoudi, the leader of the committee, said on Wednesday that a draft would be presented to Parliament by Aug. 1.
 The major parties are still in conflict over issues like regional autonomy and administration of the oil city of Kirkuk, but they are also hoping to resolve those arguments quickly so Parliament can approve a draft by Aug. 15. Such deadlines, laid out in the interim constitution, have been broken before, but American officials are pushing hard for the Parliament to meet this one in order to show that the democratic enterprise is on track at a time when insurgent violence continues unabated and approval in the United States of President Bush's handling of Iraq is waning.
 If Sunni Arabs, many of whom boycotted the elections, do not take part in writing the constitution, that could deepen their alienation from Iraqi society and the new Iraqi government. Then the Sunnis, about one-fifth of the population, could vote against the constitution in a referendum scheduled for October, and boycott elections for a full-term government scheduled for December. The Bush administration views the Sunnis' inclusion in the political process as the decisive factor in blunting the Sunni-led insurgency and persuading the guerrillas to lay down their arms.
 There are signs that Sunni Arabs want to participate in politics, to regain some of the power they lost with the fall of Saddam Hussein. Last Friday, imams in Falluja, the former guerrilla stronghold 35 miles west of Baghdad, urged people to take part in the coming elections. There has been a resurgence of violence in Falluja, though.
 The initial 55-member constitutional committee had only two Sunni Arab members. Under pressure from the United States, the committee agreed, after tough negotiations, to give 15 additional seats and 10 consulting positions to the Sunnis. 
 Violence continued on Thursday, with a suicide car bomb exploding around noon near Iraqi soldiers in the insurgent stronghold of Mahmudiya, south of Baghdad, killing at least five soldiers and injuring at least 11 other people, including a girl, an Interior Ministry official said. In western Baghdad, three members of a reconstruction committee for Diwaniya Province were killed by gunman as they rode in a car. In the Yarmouk neighborhood, a grenade tossed at the headquarters of an Iraqi security company killed one guard and injured another.
 The American military said a sailor died on Thursday of wounds received in a July 15 bombing in Hit, 85 miles west of Baghdad along the restive Euphrates River corridor.
 In Washington, the Pentagon released a Congressionally mandated report on progress in Iraq in the economic, political and security arenas. The report, which will be updated every 90 days, painted a mixed picture of a nation struggling to meet its designated political timetable and stoke a foundering economy, all while battling a resilient insurgency with newly trained Iraqi military and police forces that still require much American support. 
 Democrats, in particular, criticized the report for failing to detail more precisely the combat readiness levels of Iraqi forces, a pivotal measurement for deciding when Iraqis will be able to replace American forces in security duty. The Pentagon provided those figures in a classified annex. But a declassified assessment suggested that only a small minority of the Iraqi security forces are capable of fighting the insurgency without American assistance. 
 The kidnapping of the Algerians unfolded near the popular Saah Restaurant in Mansour, a neighborhood where many diplomats and wealthy Arabs live. The men were driving away from the Algerian Embassy in a sport utility vehicle, apparently alone, when two sedans carrying gunmen intercepted them and forced them from their car, officials and witnesses said. The abduction took place on a 500-foot stretch of road between guard posts outside the Algerian and Omani Embassies.
 A resident of the neighborhood, Ahmed Abbas, said he believed that none of the Iraqi guards opened fire during the abduction. 
 At an afternoon news conference, Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari condemned the kidnapping. ''We'll ask our special forces to protect them from the hands of terrorists,'' he said, referring to foreign diplomats.
 In early July, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, led by the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, said in an Internet posting that it had carried out the kidnapping and killing of Ihab al-Sharif, the top Egyptian envoy. Although Al Qaeda declared him dead, officials in Egypt said they had yet to find or receive his body.
 Two days after Mr. Sharif's abduction, gunmen attacked cars carrying the Pakistani ambassador and the top Bahraini diplomat in separate incidents. Muhammad Yunis Khan, the Pakistani, escaped unscathed, while Hassan Malallah al-Ansari, the Bahraini, was struck in the right hand by a bullet. Mr. Zarqawi's group said in an Internet posting that it had tried to kidnap the men but had failed. Pakistan and Bahrain announced that they were temporarily withdrawing the two men from Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Azzedine Belkadi, left, and Ali Billaroussi, Algerian diplomats in Baghdad, were kidnapped in the Iraqi capital.
A security guard's daughter screamed after her father, Jalil Shaalan, was shot by gunmen outside a Baghdad school compound yesterday. (Photo by Hadi Mizban/Associated Press)Chart: ''Missions in Iraq''Countries and organizations with foreign missions in Iraq. The number of staff members in the missions is unknown. Those with predominantly Muslim populations are in bold.Algeria -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthAustraliaAustriaBahrain -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthBangladesh -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthBritainBulgariaChinaCzech RepublicDenmarkEgypt -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthEuropeanUnionFinlandFranceGermanyGreeceHungaryIndiaIran -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthItalyJapanJordan -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthLebanon -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthMorocco -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthNetherlandsNigeriaPakistan -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthPalestinian Authority -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthPhilippinesPolandPortugalRomaniaRussian FederationSerbia and MontenegroSlovakiaSpainSouth KoreaSudan -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthSwitzerlandSyria -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthTunisia -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthTurkey -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthUnited Arab Emirates -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this monthUnited StatesVaticanVietnamYemen -- Diplomats attacked, kidnapped or killed this month(Sources by Iraq Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 C.I.A. World Factbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BOYCOTTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (64%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (54%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Politics and Government; Foreign Service; Kidnapping; Constitutions

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Edward Wong; Azzedine Belkadi; Ali Billaroussi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (98%); ALGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); OMAN (93%) Iraq; Algeria; Oman; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



414 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Don't Get Fresh With Me!

BYLINE: By Julie Powell. 
Julie Powell is the author of the forthcoming ''Julie and Julia: 365 Days, 524 Recipes, 1 Tiny Apartment Kitchen.''

 BODY:
SOME are depressed by the sun deprivation of winter; my anxiety peaks instead at the height of summer. This isn't some sort of seasonal affective disorder-in-reverse. My worsening temper can be calibrated precisely not to the longer days but rather to another unrelenting symbol of the season: the blossoming farmers' market I walk through in Manhattan's Union Square. I confess that half an hour browsing in that utopia of produce -- or the new Whole Foods Market at the square's south end -- often leaves me longing for the antiseptic but nonjudgmental aisles of low-end supermarkets like Key Food or Western Beef. 
 Don't get me wrong: I love a big, ugly tomato as much as the next girl. I buy my fair share of pencil-thin asparagus and micro-greens, and I'm sure if ever I were to stand in an orchard and taste a peach picked during one of its two days of succulent perfection, I would find it one of life's greatest joys. Perhaps one day I will -- if I move to California, where life is apparently just one great organic cornucopia. But even in that exceedingly unlikely event, I'll remain a bit suspicious of this cult of garden-freshness. 
Through the work of passionate chefs and food advocates like Alice Waters, our anxieties about Frankenfood and rampant obesity have been transformed into a positive movement of pleasurable eating, based on a menu of local, organic foods and a strong support of sustainable agriculture. This style of cuisine, which first cropped up in California and has spread like kudzu across the nation, has caused the proliferation of ''seasonal menus'' in restaurants from Washington State to Palm Beach, Fla. 
 The key principle of the movement is to ''treat fine ingredients with respect.'' A worthy goal, surely, as is providing healthful food for children and resistance to genetic engineering, antibiotics and hormones. It seems churlish and wrong-headed to mock this dedication; it's like sneering at puppies or true love or democracy. And yet, as admirable as these efforts are, there remains buried in this philosophy two things that just get my hackles up.
 The first and most dangerous aspect is the temptation of economic elitism. Of course, food has always been about class. In his classic meditation ''The Physiology of Taste,'' first published in 1825, Jean-Anthelme Brillat-Savarin suggested a series of three ''gastronomical tests,'' menus designed to expose the culinary sensitivity -- or lack thereof -- of one's dining companions. These are organized according to economic status: you can expect your wealthy friends (''Presumed income: 30,000 francs and more'') to salivate at the sight of ''a seven-pound fowl, stuffed round as a ball with Perigord truffles''; while your stevedore buddies will be perfectly satisfied by good sauerkraut. 
 This sort of garden-variety condescension is eternal, and relatively harmless. What makes the snobbery of the organic movement more insidious is that it equates privilege not only with good taste, but also with good ethics. Eat wild Brazil nuts and save the rainforest. Buy more expensive organic fruit for your children and fight the national epidemic of childhood obesity. Support a local farmer and give economic power to responsible stewards of sustainable agriculture. There's nothing wrong with any of these choices, but they do require time and money. 
 When you wed money to decency, you come perilously close to equating penury with immorality. The milk at Whole Foods is hormone-free; the milk at Western Beef is presumably full of the stuff -- and substantially less expensive. The chicken at Whole Foods is organic and cage-free; the chicken at Western Beef is not. Is the woman who buys her children's food at the place where they take her food stamps therefore a bad mother? 
 ''That's not cooking, that's shopping.'' This epigram has been attributed to Julia Child and several other chefs of an older generation, in reference to the tenets of California Cuisine. It is sometimes used -- often pronounced in a snooty French accent or Childean warble -- by devotees of the organic movement (like Doug Hamilton, writer and director of the documentary ''Alice Waters and Her Delicious Revolution'') to mock these fusty old-school cooks. For the newer generation, a love for traditional fine cuisine is cast as fussy and snobbish, while spending lots of money is, curiously, considered egalitarian and wise. 
 I object to this equation. Shopping is the province of the privileged; fine cooking is not. Indeed, great cuisine arose from privation. The techniques of smoking, drying, salting and roasting were all developed to preserve foods past the ''perfect peach'' stage, past the day the vegetable was harvested or the animal butchered, to save for a time of less bounty. Preserved foodstuffs led directly the development of culinary traditions, as people who wanted nothing more than to feed themselves well and with pleasure taught themselves how best to combine ingredients artfully, to create something more than the sum of its parts. (Not to mention that salted fish and smoked meats made possible the ocean voyages that, for instance, introduced Europeans to California.) Classic French sauces were conceived to ennoble less-than-prime beef. A burrito is nothing more than a delicious disguise for inelegant leftovers. 
 Cooking is one of the few actions that verifiably separates us from other animals, and its universality brings us together. This is a sentiment that's been treasured since the dawn of cuisine by people who value the art of eating. And it's not only the ingredients -- be they delicate heirloom tomatoes or the stalwart hothouse kind -- that we share when we eat well together. There is also the love and creativity and work we combine them with -- those human qualities that transform food into cuisine, and eating into a pleasure. 
 WITH his gastronomic tests, Brillat-Savarin sought to find others like himself, of whatever economic status, who truly enjoyed food. It's easy to do the same today, but the method isn't to assume that everyone at Whole Foods is wise and everyone at the Western Beef benighted. 
 Instead, look in their carts. Some shop at Western Beef for nothing more than diet cola and frozen bagels; some at Whole Foods for premade sushi and overdesigned bottles of green tea. These people have much in common. So, too, do the professorial types poring over the sweet corn and dewy blueberries at the greenmarket and the Honduran family at the discount grocery, piling their cart high with rice and dried beans and canned tomatoes and all the other stuff you need to make something out of nothing much. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gregory Nemec)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); DEPRESSION (78%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); DOGS (71%); OBESITY (70%); NUTRITION (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); ANTIBIOTICS (61%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) Agriculture; Organic Food; Agriculture

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (57%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%)

PERSON: Julie Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



415 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2361 words

HEADLINE: Revisit to Old Hero Finds He's Still Lively

BYLINE: By JULIE SALAMON

 BODY:
When I was about to turn 12, my mother came across a set of familiar books in a sale bin at a secondhand bookstore in Cincinnati, about 60 miles from our home in rural Ohio. She remembered being mesmerized when she read them years before, and bought the entire set for me, for my birthday.
 The pages were yellowed, and the red cloth jackets were worn. But I knew the minute I began reading the Lanny Budd series that this was a significant gift, a sign that my mother considered me very grown-up. There were 11 volumes in all, covering the first half of the 20th century in 7,424 pages. The heft wasn't merely physical. These historical novels engulfed me in the thrilling and terrible imperatives of history that had deeply affected my parents directly but seemed far removed from my time and place, a placid corner of Appalachia.
I assumed that out in the big world, everyone must know about Lanny Budd. But later, after I left Ohio and lived in Boston and then Manhattan, I found that no one I met, whether part of the literati or not, had ever heard of the books. The name of their author, Upton Sinclair, always evoked the same response: ''Oh, yeah, I read 'The Jungle' in high school. '' 
 Why had the Lanny Budd books been forgotten in relatively short order? They were international best sellers when they were published by the Viking Press -- primarily in the 1940's, not the 19th century. ''Dragon's Teeth,'' third in the series, won the Pulitzer Prize in 1943. Their dust jackets carry blurbs to die for, from luminaries including H.G. Wells, Albert Einstein, Thomas Mann and George Bernard Shaw, whose quotation reads: ''When people ask me what has happened in my long lifetime, I do not refer them to the newspaper files and to the authorities, but to Upton Sinclair's novels.''
 But these novels, which had been published in 21 countries, quickly became obscure. My mother first read the series in the early 1950's, about the time it was completed. She found Lanny Budd by accident. She was a recent immigrant, and went to the library hoping to find another book by Sinclair Lewis, whose writing she had enjoyed in Hungarian translation back in Europe. Perhaps flummoxed by her accent, the librarian sent her home with ''Dragon's Teeth'' by Upton Sinclair. 
 That case of mistaken literary identity evolved into a literary infatuation. Sinclair's Lanny Budd -- worldly, dashing, but possessed of a social conscience -- meshed perfectly with my mother's own romantic, political and historic yearnings. She has always been a persistent optimist, despite her own grim World War II experiences as a European Jew and concentration-camp survivor. Lanny was a bon vivant who had the means to avoid engagement with the world's misery, but instead became a behind-the-scenes player, often at great risk but always escaping to face the next chapter's conundrum. 
 Along with the books, my mother transmitted her passion to me. I read all 3 million words before my 13th birthday. And then I never opened the novels again, though they've remained prominently displayed on my bookshelves. I could say my neglect came from having so much else to read. But I often revisit books I've loved. 
 No, I kept away from Lanny because I wanted to keep my fond memories intact. I'd become aware that Sinclair is not held in literary esteem, being remembered most for his socialist polemics, his failed attempt to become governor of California and his fascination with the paranormal. Would Lanny simply seem ridiculous to me now, like so many heartthrobs from my adolescence?

The World's His Stage
 So it was with trepidation that I returned to Lanny Budd last January. I'm not sure why I did. Perhaps I was inspired by the arrival of the 60th anniversary of World War II's end, or by observing my own teenage daughter's growing fascination with global history, sparked by a charismatic teacher. Whatever the reason, one cold and gloomy day I opened ''World's End,'' the first book in the series, published in 1940. An odyssey of several months began with these words:
 ''The American boy's name was Lanning Budd; people called him Lanny, an agreeable name, easy to say. He had been born in Switzerland, and spent most of his life on the French Riviera; he had never crossed the ocean, but considered himself an American because his mother and father were that. He had traveled a lot, and just now was in a little village in the suburbs of Dresden, his mother having left him while she went off on a yachting trip to the fiords of Norway. Lanny didn't mind, for he was used to being left in places, and knew how to get along with people from other parts of the world. He would eat their foods, pick up a smattering of their languages, and hear stories about strange ways of life.''
 Lanny was 13 in that introduction and impossibly glamorous. Born in 1900, he was the illegitimate child of an American arms merchant and his mistress, named Beauty, who raised their son on the Riviera while her ex-lover maintained a respectable life with a wife and children in Connecticut. In that childhood on the Cote d'Azure, Lanny mingled easily both with local peasants and wealthy dilettantes. Over the course of the series, Lanny became a participant in almost every moment significant to Western history in the first half of the 20th century. But unlike subsequent fictional witnesses to world events, he was neither a nebbishy chameleon like Woody Allen's Zelig, nor a noble Everyman like Forrest Gump. Things didn't happen to Lanny; he helped make them happen.
 Using his father's conservative credentials and his own facade as an international art dealer, Lanny became a confidant of Hitler and Goering. He operated as a secret agent for President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He charmed Einstein by playing excellent piano accompaniment to the scientist's violin and risked his own life to rescue a Jewish friend from concentration camp. He spoke many languages fluently, casually quoted from Goethe and Byron, dabbled in both physics and metaphysics, and was a socialist and feminist while always behaving like a Victorian gentleman.

A Man of Action
 When I completed the 10th volume last week, Lanny was 45, and World War II was over in Europe. (I still have one final volume to go, ''The Return of Lanny Budd,'' which takes place during the cold war.) I felt exhilarated and relieved to discover that I hadn't been a fool -- far from it -- for being mesmerized by the series. Yet I also understood why Lanny Budd had fallen out of fashion. 
 Sinclair, who had been a muckraking journalist, wrote the books with deadline urgency. And he was facing a deadline, a big one. World War II was well under way in Europe when he began. In a statement Sinclair prepared for the Literary Guild, which had made ''World's End'' one of its selections in 1940, he wrote: ''Fate has put you and me upon the earth in one of the critical periods of human history; a dangerous time, but exciting -- certainly there has never been a time when it has been possible for the ordinary person to know so much about what is going on.'' He then continued: ''I saw the rise of Mussolini, and of Hitler, and of Franco; the dreadful agony of Spain wrung my heart; then I saw Munich, and said to myself, 'This is the end; the end of our world.'''
 Even for a facile writer (he wrote more than 90 books in his 90 years, as well as numerous plays and articles), he was writing fast, producing the first 10 volumes in 9 years. So there is repetition; he often reminds the reader that Beauty, Lanny's mother, must diet to ward off ''embonpoint'' (French for plumpness). Character development is not of primary concern: Lanny is a man of action, not introspection. The insouciance with which he handles adversity, so admirable when I was a child, can now seem an annoying absence of psychological depth. But Sinclair's historical acumen and his calculations about powerful institutions -- government, press, corporations, oil cartels and lobbyists -- remain remarkably shrewd and often prescient. Surely there is enough there to compel at least some of the minions devoted to the History Channel.
 I wanted to talk to somebody about the books. My own family had patiently endured my tendency to evoke the series in conversations covering a wide variety of subjects, especially Iraq and Karl Rove. But when one of my children stopped me one day and said, ''Oh no, not Lanny Budd again!'' I decided I needed to find other devotees of the series.

'An Entrancing Protagonist'
 They do exist. On the Internet I found Andrew Simon, a retired engineering professor living in Florida who six years ago began a publishing company called Simon Publications (simonpublications.com), which specializes in books Mr. Simon considers long-lost classics, mainly history books. Four years ago, Mr. Simon republished the Lanny Budd series, which in his paperback version comes in 22 volumes because the print-on-demand technology he uses can't handle books longer than 750 pages.
 I spoke to him on the telephone and discovered we had other connections. Like my mother, he spoke Hungarian, and he had lived in Ohio for 30 years, teaching civil engineering at the University of Akron. He had read the Lanny Budd series in Hungary, in the late 1940's, but said he had to wait until immigrating to the United States to read the final volume because of its anti-Communist views.
 What drew him to the books? ''I felt they were very, very correct in a historical sense,'' he said. ''Though he was an American, he described Europe and European ways and thinking just as it was at the time.'' Sales have been so-so, he said, about 100 to 150 copies of the series every year.
 Lauren Coodley, a professor of history and psychology at Napa Valley College, edited an anthology of Upton Sinclair's writings, published last year, called ''The Land of Orange Groves and Jails: Upton Sinclair's California'' (Heyday). 
 She told me she had been trying to revive interest in Sinclair for a decade, since a friend handed her one of the Lanny Budd novels. ''He is such an entrancing protagonist,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''The American abroad, the educated American of conscience. He stands for the dilemma of Americans in the world, of deciding what's a good life, how much to enjoy yourself and how much good to do.'' 

Trying for Art
 Maybe Lanny Budd will rise again. He is the subject of a chapter in ''Upton Sinclair: Radical Innocent,'' a biography by Anthony Arthur scheduled for publication by Random House next year.
 Professor Arthur, a retired professor of literature at California State University in Northridge, told me he, too, had been wondering why the Lanny Budd books had more or less disappeared. ''He was always regarded as a kind of guilty pleasure,'' he said of Sinclair. ''There are writers today that have that reputation, like Tom Clancy or Robert Ludlum, but his style is infinitely superior to popular writers today who are praised for their adventure stories.''
 Then he asked, ''Did you notice how much untranslated German there is? Sinclair was condescended to by intellectuals who said he was writing for the middle class with a mild interest in ideas and negligible grasp of issues. If that's true, then the level then was a good deal higher than it is today.''
 For Professor Arthur, the Lanny Budd series marked a significant passage for Sinclair, who was in his 60's when he started writing the books. ''He'd been tagged all his life with being a propagandist,'' Professor Arthur said. ''This was his moment of decision to become the closest thing to a pure artist that he could.''
 I have returned my Lanny Budd books to their shelf. Maybe one day my children will feel the urge to have a look and keep our family's literary infatuation going for one more generation.

Lanny Budd and Inflation: 11 Volumes to 22

Upton Sinclair's 11-volume Lanny Budd series was originally published by the Viking Press in the 1940's, except for the final book, ''The Return of Lanny Budd'' (1953). Copies of the hardcover edition are out of print but can be found on the Internet for varying prices. In 2001 Simon Publications brought the books out again, with each novel divided into two volumes. The retail price for these paperbacks is $29.95 per volume. They are available through most bookstores and Internet distributors, or can be ordered directly from simonpublications.com. The company offers a 20 percent discount for a complete set of 22 volumes, charging $530. For more information, contact info@simonpublications.com or write to Simon Publications Inc., P.O. Box 91175, Phoenix, Ariz. 85066. Here is the Lanny Budd series in order of publication. Page numbers and dates refer to the original edition. The brief descriptions of the first 10 volumes were taken from the dust jacket of ''The Return of Lanny Budd.'' The books cost $4 each at the time.

Lanny Budd Series

'WORLD'S END,' 1940; 740 pages. World War I and immediately after.

'BETWEEN TWO WORLDS,' 1941; 859 pages. From the Treaty of Versailles (1919) to the crash of 1929.

'DRAGON'S TEETH,' 1942; 631 pages. (Pulitzer Prize winner); 1929 to 1934 -- the Nazis' rise to power.

'WIDE IS THE GATE,' 1943; 751 pages. 1934 to 1938 -- the Nazi blood purge and the Spanish Civil War.

'PRESIDENTIAL AGENT,' 1944; 655 pages. 1938 -- the appeasement period.

'DRAGON HARVEST,' 1945; 703 pages. From Munich to the German occupation of Paris.

'A WORLD TO WIN,' 1946; 627 pages. Vichy -- 1940 to 1942.

'PRESIDENTIAL MISSION,' 1947; 645 pages. 1942 to 1943 -- the African invasion and behind the scenes in wartime Germany.

'ONE CLEAR CALL,' 1948; 629 pages. 1943 and 1944 -- Sicily, Italy, France: D-Day to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's re-election.

'O SHEPHERD, SPEAK!,' 1949; 629 pages. 1944 to 1946 -- Battle of the Bulge, Yalta, Roosevelt's death, the first A-bomb, the Nuremberg Trials.

'THE RETURN OF LANNY BUDD,' 1953; 555 pages. The cold war.

Related Books

'THE LAND OF ORANGE GROVES AND JAILS: UPTON SINCLAIR'S CALIFORNIA,' edited by Lauren Coodley. Heyday Books; 215 pages; $18.95

'UPTON SINCLAIR: RADICAL INNOCENT,' by Anthony Arthur. To be published by Random House in 2006.


GRAPHIC: Photos: DEADLINE URGENCY -- Upton Sinclair, shown in 1933, wrote 11 Lanny Budd books, including a Pulitzer Prize winner. (Photo by Corbis/Bettmann)
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. E29)
 Upton Sinclair in 1942. (Photo by Bettmann Archive/Corbis)(pg. E35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); HISTORY (74%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (73%); WORLD WAR II (64%); IMMIGRATION (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Julie Salamon; Upton Sinclair

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (76%); HUNGARY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



416 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:

Attractions

Museums and Sites

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Oct. 30, ''New York Fast Forward: Buildings by Enrique Norten/TEN Arquitectos,'' an exhibition of drawings, photographs, renderings and models. Through Sept. 18, ''The Destruction of Lower Manhattan: Photographs by Danny Lyon.'' Through Oct. 2, ''Tolerance and Identity: Jews in Early New York, 1654-1825,'' featuring engravings, records, prayer books and other items. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $5; families, $15. Information: (212)534-1672.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Through Sunday, ''The Constitution,'' an exhibition from the society's archive that includes a draft of an essay by John Jay from the Federalist Papers, and notes by Rufus King on the 1787 Constitutional Convention. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $5; 12 and under, free. Information: (212)873-3400.

Gardens

QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday at 4 p.m., a performance of Dixieland jazz and popular songs by the Queens Festival Band. Free. Information: (718)886-3800.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Tomorrow and Sunday, a ''Wondrous Weeds Weekend.'' Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., till 9 p.m. on Wednesdays in July. Admission: $4; students and 65+, $2; under 6, free; Tuesdays, free admission all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon. Information: (718)549-3200.

Walking Tours

New York City

SPANISH HARLEM SALSA TOUR includes social clubs, botanicas and homes of famous salsa musicians. Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Thursdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m., sometimes including live performances. Fee: $25. Information: www.salsasight.com. Sponsored by the Lubano Corporation. Meeting place and reservations: (212)253-8702.

'LITERARY HARLEM,' ending at the Harlem Book Fair, tomorrow at 11 a.m. Sponsored by the Hamilton Heights West Harlem Community Preservation Organization. Fee: $15. Meeting place and reservations: (212)658-9160.

'CROSSING DELANCEY -- OLD MEETS NEW ON THE LOWER EAST SIDE' visits historic houses of worship as well as trendy shops and performance spaces, meeting today at 11 a.m. at Economy Candy, 108 Rivington Street. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Conservancy. Fee: $12; students, $10. Information: (212)374-4100.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Stanford White -- Splendor and Scandal,'' meeting at the Washington Square Arch at the southern end of Fifth Avenue. Fee, $10. Information: (212)969-8262.

HISTORIC (OLD) NEW YORK CITY WALKING TOUR, Lower Manhattan, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212)979-2388.

'LONG ISLAND CITY -- OLD AND NEW,' Queens, meeting tomorrow at 1 p.m. in front of the courthouse at Court Square and Jackson Avenue. Fee: $12; students, $10. Sponsored by Historic New York Tours. Information: (646)298-8669.

CENTRAL PARK, FIFTH AVENUE AND CENTRAL PARK WEST traces the Victorian history and architecture of the area, tomorrow at 2 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m. Fee: $13. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212)465-3331.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Tomorrow at 4 p.m., '''Idyllic Island'' tours Roosevelt Island, beginning with an aerial tram ride,meeting on the northwest corner of 59th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan. Fee: $5; $4 tram fare is additional. Information: (212)265-2663.

THE MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY OF NEW YORK Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Go, Go Gowanus,'' a tour of the Gowanus Canal area in Brooklyn, as well as the Carroll Gardens Historic District, meeting at the corner of Smith and President Streets. Fee, $15; members, $12. Information: (212)439-1049.

EIGHTH STREET AND ST. MARKS PLACE, A meeting tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and St. Marks Place, East Village. Free. Sponsored by the Village Alliance Business Improvement District. Information: (212) 777-2173.

UNIQUE HISTORIC ADVENTURES WITH DIANA STUART Sunday at noon, ''The Bowery,'' meeting at Cooper Union, southwest corner of Third Avenue and St. Marks Place, East Village. Sponsored by the Society for the Preservation of Manhole Covers in New York City. Fee: $20. Information: (212)685-6150.

HARLEM, YOUR WAY! TOURS Sunday at 10:15 a.m., ''Experience the Beauty of Harlem Gospel'' includes a visit to a local church, meeting at 129 West 130th Street. Fee: $25. Reservations required: (212)690-1687.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Tomorrow at 5 p.m., ''Green-Wood Cemetery at Twilight,'' meeting at the main gate of the cemetery, at 25th Street and Fifth Avenue, in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Fee, $15; 63+, $12; students, $10. Information: (212)439-1090.

'FIFTH AVENUE GOLD COAST,' with stops at several mansions, meeting tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Fee: $12. Information: (212)242-5762.

BROOKLYN CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Tomorrow at 3 p.m., a family hike in Inwood Hill Park in Upper Manhattan, meeting at the Indian Road/218th Street entrance to the park. Information: (718)788-8500, Ext. 208. Fee: $11; members, $9; students and 63+, $8. Information: (718)788-8500, Ext. 208.

METRO TOUR SERVICE offers a combined tour of Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, today through Sunday at 2 p.m., meeting in front of the Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, Downtown Brooklyn. Fee: $25. Information: (718)789-0430.

'SIDEWALK SURPRISES IN LINCOLN SQUARE' meets every Saturday at 11 a.m. through Nov. 12, at the Maine Monument at Merchant's Gate, across from the Columbus Circle Fountain, 59th Street and Central Park West. Free. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. Information: (212) 581-3774.

'EXTENDED YORKVILLE, THEN AND NOW,' a history tour on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, tomorrow and Sunday at 11:45 a.m. and 2:15 p.m. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Fee: $10. Meeting place and reservations: (212)629-1886.

NOSHWALKS Today at 10:30 a.m., a tour of Greenpoint, Brooklyn, , meeting at St. Anthony-St. Alphonsus Church, 863 Manhattan Avenue, at Milton Street. Fee: $20 (food not included). Reservations required: (212)222-2243.

NEW YORK LIKE A NATIVE Sunday at 1:30 p.m., ''Fort Greene & Clinton Hill'' a Brooklyn tour; fee, $15. Reservations and meeting place: (718)393-7537.

CENTURY WALKING TOURS Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Newspaper Row,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan. Fee: $15. Information: (917)607-9019.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park: Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Waterways and Vistas,'' a stroll from the Dairy to Belvedere Castle, meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Sunday at noon, ''Views From the Past,'' about the early days of this first landscaped urban park, meeting at the Dairy. Information: (212)360-2726.

Events

New York City

'SUMMER ON THE HUDSON,' Riverside Park South, Plaza in front of Pier 1, entrances at 68th or 72nd Street. Sunday night at 6, a free performance of folk, soul and rhythm and blues by Morley. Sponsored by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Information: 311.

MIDTOWN INTERNATIONAL THEATER FESTIVAL, through Aug. 7 at several locations, including the WorkShop Theater, 312 West 36th Street; Where Eagles Dare Theater, 347 West 36th Street; and Smash Studios, 307 West 36th Street. Admission to most shows: $15; students, $12. Reservations: (212)868-4444; schedule, www.midtownfestival.org.

EAST VILLAGE VISITING NEIGHBORS STREET FAIR, Fourth Avenue, between Astor Place and East Fifth Street. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

N.Y.C. UNFOLDS STREET FAIR, West Third Street, from Broadway to La Guardia Place, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the New York City Chapter of the Names Project.

EAST SIDE SUMMER FESTIVAL, Third Avenue, from 42nd to 57th Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the East Side Rezoning Alliance.

14TH STREET SUMMERFEST, West 14th Street, from Seventh to Eighth Avenues, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by St. Bernard's Church.

NEW YORK CITY MOVIE DAY FESTIVAL, Seventh Avenue, from 47th to 57th Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Motion Picture Club.

HARLEM BOOK FAIR, 135th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, and several indoor locations. With readings, music and discussions, including a conversation with Ishmael Reed and Amiri Baraka. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Information: (212)348-1681; www.qbr.com/hbf/main.html.

'EAT CENTRAL PARK HIKE,' a search for edible plants with Steve Brill, meeting Sunday at 11:30 a.m. at Makor, 35 West 67th Street, Manhattan. Fee: $25. Information: (212)601-1000.

BROADWAY/ASTORIA STREET FAIR, Broadway, from Crescent to 31st Street, Queens. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

2005 SORRENTO CHEESE SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Mulberry Street, between Canal and Broome Streets. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., operatic arias by Dominic Mantuano and Leonardo Gonzalez, tenors; and Cheryl Warfield, soprano. Sponsored by Sorrento Cheese and other businesses. Information: (212)302-0551.

ASIAN AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL continues through Thursday at two Manhattan locations: the Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, and the I.F.C. Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village. Screenings at the Asia Society begin tonight at 6:30 and tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.; at the I.F.C. Center, tonight at midnight. Tickets: individual screenings, $10 (members, $8); multiple-screening passes, $90. Information: (212)989-1422; www.asiancinevision.org.

'TIMES OF GREATNESS,' a mobile traveling exhibition on Negro Leagues baseball, with photographs, uniforms and other memorabilia, at Shea Stadium, near Gate A, 126th Street and Northern Boulevard, Flushing, Queens. Tomorrow, 1:45 to 3:30 p.m. Free.

Recreation

New York City

RUN FOR CENTRAL PARK. A four-mile run, beginning tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. on the 72nd Street Transverse; children's races, for ages 2 to 12, ranging from 25 yards to one-half mile, follow at 10 a.m. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fee: $20; club members, $14; 18 and younger and 62+, $10. Race day registration fee: $30; club members, $20; 18 and younger and 62+, $12. Children's races: $10 in advance; $12 on the day. Information: (212)860-4455.

BIKE THE BIG APPLE Tomorrow at 10 a.m., ''The Amazing Bronx Bicycle Sojourn,'' a 12-mile ride; fee, $59. Sunday at 6 p.m., ''Brooklyn Bridge and Skyline at Twilight Bike Tour''; fee, $49. All equipment provided. Reservations and meeting places: (877)865-0078; bikethebigapple.com.


GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- Ishmael Reed is to be at the Harlem Book Fair tomorrow. (Photo by Shizuo Kambayashi/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (69%); MUSIC (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



417 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall After Bombings Overshadow Other News 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slid yesterday as a second string of bomb attacks on London's transportation system overshadowed a drop in oil prices and a decision by China to revalue its currency. 
 The blasts are ''probably the reason the market netted down because the rest of the news has been pretty positive,'' said Lincoln Anderson, chief investment officer at LPL Financial Services in Boston.
Economic reports yesterday showed the index of leading economic indicators rose a greater-than-expected 0.9 percent for June, a sign that growth may be starting to accelerate. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 61.38 points, or 0.57 percent, to end at 10,627.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 8.16 points, or 0.66 percent, to finish at 1,227.04. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index slipped 9.97 points, or 0.46 percent, to close at 2,178.60.
 Shares of travel companies slid on the London news, with the American Stock Exchange index of airlines down 3.1 percent.
 Delta Air Lines reported a narrower loss for its second quarter compared with the period a year ago, but its shares fell 9.2 percent, or 36 cents, to $3.55 on the New York Stock Exchange amid renewed talk that it may file for bankruptcy protection.
 United States crude oil futures for September delivery settled at $57.13 a barrel, down 89 cents.
 ''We have seen at least a small break in oil prices,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That's been a positive, even if it shows up and knocks down stock prices because it takes down Exxon and components of the energy sector. But if it sticks, it should be positive for stocks over all.''
 Shares of Exxon Mobil fell 1.9 percent, or $1.11, to $57.89, while the stock of Chevron slid 1.1 percent, or 63 cents, to $56.97. 
 Trading was heavy on the New York Stock Exchange, with about 1.67 billion shares changing hands, above last year's daily average of 1.46 billion; on the Nasdaq, about 2.09 billion shares traded, higher than last year's average of 1.81 billion.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since April, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); INTEREST RATES (59%); EXECUTIVES (56%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (66%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (66%); DAL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



418 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Labor Force Dropouts

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''The Dropout Puzzle'' (column, July 18), Paul Krugman attributes the drop in the unemployment rate to an overall decline in labor force participation. He's right.
 One thing to consider is the large number of formerly incarcerated individuals whose experience with the labor market may skew the numbers. 
 Every year, more than 600,000 people are released from prisons in the United States. After coming home, they often experience rampant job discrimination and lawful exclusions from many categories of employment because of their criminal convictions.
 These job seekers may be compelled to take jobs off the books that are not reflected in unemployment indicators. Many will be exploited by unscrupulous employers or resume criminal activity in order to survive. 
 Imagine what effect this trend will have on the health of our economy over time.

Ann Cammett
Newark, July 19, 2005

The writer is a prisoner re-entry policy fellow at the New Jersey Institute for Social Justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR FORCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); WRITERS (88%); PRISONS (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (68%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Ann Cammett; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



419 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 68 words

HEADLINE: Labor Force Dropouts

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman states that despite a low unemployment rate of 5 percent, people don't assess current economic conditions favorably. I think that this has more to do with the enormous amount of debt some people have, and not necessarily the job market.
Debt is like fat: easy to accumulate, but very difficult to work off. 
 America needs to go on a diet.

Steven Jezyk
Livingston, N.J., July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Steven Jezyk; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



420 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LEGAL BEAT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Taking the Express Lane to Diversity

BYLINE: By Jonathan D. Glater

 BODY:
LARGE law firms are generally not diverse places. Even though law schools for years have produced graduates of increasingly varied backgrounds, these young lawyers seem not to stay long enough to rise through the ranks of senior associates and eventually become partners. 
 Partners at large firms loudly lament the situation and point out the one or two African-American partners they have, or the few Asian-Americans, or maybe even a few Hispanic-Americans. But the numbers tell the story: According to the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, for example, which released results of a voluntary survey of diversity at 82 New York-area law offices earlier this year, 4.7 percent of partners are members of minority groups, even though 21.1 percent of associates are. 
All of this makes one Boston-based firm's aggressive move to build an employment law practice in Washington by hiring for mostly senior positions about a dozen lawyers -- nine of them African-American and one Hispanic -- that much more striking.
 Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky & Popeo has hired Edmund D. Cooke Jr., a former staff counsel for the United States House of Representatives and a former appellate advocate for the National Labor Relations Board; Gilbert F. Casellas, former chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Singleton B. McAllister, former general counsel of the United States Agency for International Development; and nine others, so far, to join the firm's 52-lawyer Washington office. Mr. Cooke and Ms. McAllister are black and Mr. Casellas is Hispanic.
 The road to the hirings, which raised the number of minority partners in the firm to 13 from 6, started late this winter with a persistent headhunter's calls to Mr. Cooke, one of the lawyers who will head the group at Mintz Levin. At the time, Mr. Cooke said, he was quite comfortable as a partner at another Washington law firm, Venable. Nonetheless, he met with the head of Mintz Levin's Washington office, Cherie R. Kiser. Mr. Cooke, interviewed in Mintz Levin's Midtown offices earlier this month, recalled that Ms. Kiser asked him an unusually open-ended question: ''What would it take to get you to move?''
 As it happened, Mr. Cooke had already come up with an answer to that question and had shopped his idea to Washington-area law firms in 2002 and 2003. None of them bit. The idea was to get a single firm to invest in hiring a group of diverse lawyers at once, to build a practice area and make money, of course, but also to achieve overnight what Mr. Cooke called a critical mass of lawyers who could be mentors for junior lawyers and move more of them into the partnership.
 ''There's a measure of risk for any firm in doing that,'' Mr. Cooke said, explaining why he had not been particularly hopeful that any firm would take on the challenge.
 But within a week of the conversation with Ms. Kiser, he received a call from Steven P. Rosenthal, co-managing partner at Mintz Levin. The two men met for dinner at McCormick & Schmick's, a seafood restaurant in Washington. From there, talks advanced quickly.
 For Mintz Levin, which has about 450 lawyers in offices in seven cities, hiring so many people at once is a multimillion-dollar investment, Mr. Rosenthal said. ''In addition to hiring these individuals, we are also making a significant commitment to their practice,'' providing them with marketing and other support, he said. ''It's not simply, here's a desk, here's a computer, here's a telephone, go forth and produce business.''
 It was important that Mintz Levin agree to hire a group of lawyers together, said Ms. McAllister, who left the Washington office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal to come to the firm. Indeed, lawyers in the group moving to Mintz Levin said they called each other to make sure that all were on board; many were leaving lucrative jobs.
 There is a business case to be made for hiring more lawyers of diverse backgrounds. More corporate clients these days demand that their legal matters be handled by diverse teams at firms -- and threaten to fire firms that cannot meet the requirement. Big clients like Wal-Mart have recently announced that they will review their outside law firms to ensure that their legal teams are diverse.
 Nonetheless, most law firms have not taken large or very public steps to increase their diversity, said Thomas S. Clay, managing director of Altman Weil, a consulting firm that advises law firms.
 ''It's very unusual,'' Mr. Clay said of the Mintz Levin move. He added that he thought the approach might work, but said he was not sure if the move would benefit lawyers outside the Washington office. ''I have to wonder what that would mean to the corporate diverse lawyer in Chicago or wherever.''
 Keeping smart, young, minority lawyers with many competing options at one law firm may be difficult. But the lawyers moving to Mintz Levin said the challenge was an important reason they were willing to move. They said they wanted to leave a legacy that would benefit younger lawyers.
 ''You want to be part of something bigger,'' Mr. Casellas said. ''I said to Ed,'' he added, referring to Mr. Cooke, ''that I would join him at Mintz Levin because I thought we could make history -- and make money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: New at Mintz Levin: Seated, Gilbert F. Casellas
 and, from left, O'Kelly E. McWilliams III, Singleton B. McAllister and Edmund D. Cooke Jr. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (91%); LAWYERS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Legal Profession; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Appointments and Executive Changes; Minorities (US); Hiring and Promotion; Labor; Discrimination

COMPANY: MINTZ LEVIN COHN FERRIS GLOVSKY & POPEO PC (94%); VENABLE LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (55%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (54%) Mintz Levin Cohen Ferris Glovsky Y Popeo

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



421 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Georgian Admits Tossing Grenade Near Bush, but Provides No Motive

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 21 

 BODY:
The man arrested Wednesday night in Georgia after a shootout with the police admitted on Thursday to throwing a hand grenade near a stage where President Bush was addressing a huge public rally in May, two senior Georgian officials said. 
 The grenade did not explode, but sullied a presidential visit to Georgia, a small post-Soviet nation on the Black Sea, during which Mr. Bush embraced the country's tilt toward the West and gave a speech about the advance of freedom and democracy. 
 The suspect, Vladimir Arutyunian, 27, told doctors who are treating him for gunshot wounds that he had hurled the grenade, Interior Minister Vano Merabishvili and Gela Bezhuashvili, the chairman of Georgia's National Security Council, both said in telephone interviews. 
 Mr. Arutyunian's motive was not immediately clear, but the initial impression of investigators was that he bore some unspecified animus toward the United States and that he had acted alone, Mr. Merabishvili said. 
 The two officials said they expected the investigation to gain more clarity once officers were able to interview the suspect. Mr. Arutyunian was under guard on Thursday in a hospital in Tbilisi. His injuries were not regarded as life-threatening.
 A search of his apartment had turned up more grenades, Russian military manuals and, according to Guram Donadze, the Interior Ministry spokesman, a Russian-language copy of ''The Day of the Jackal,'' a novel about a plot to assassinate Charles de Gaulle.
 Mr. Arutyunian, an unemployed Georgian citizen of Armenian descent, was arrested at the apartment he shared with his mother on the outskirts of Tbilisi on Wednesday night after a shootout in which he was injured and one Georgian officer was killed. 
 Mr. Merabishvili said Mr. Arutyunian was a member of a separatist party that supported the deposed leadership of Ajaria, a region formerly out of Georgia's federal control that rejoined the nation last year under pressure from President Mikheil Saakashvili. 
 But he said it was not clear what influence, if any, separatist politics may have had in the incident. It was also not immediately clear where the suspect obtained the grenades and the assault rifle he fired at the police. 
 The arrest capped an intense week for Georgian security officials, who released photographs of the suspect on Monday and offered a reward of more than $80,000 for information on his whereabouts. The photographs showed a clean-shaven young man in a black jacket and dark glasses. 
 Mr. Bezhuashvili said the photos had been discovered after a joint investigation by the Georgian authorities and the United States, in which officers reviewed every obtainable photograph or video taken in the crowd, as well as satellite imagery. 
 Once the pictures were released, Mr. Bezhuashvili said, the tips leading to Mr. Arutyunian began pouring in, and he was promptly arrested. He had recently grown a beard.
 The American Embassy in Tbilisi released a statement calling the joint effort ''a model for international law enforcement cooperation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir Arutyunian, 27, in a Tbilisi hospital where he is recovering from gunshot wounds, had more grenades at his home, officials said. (Photo by Georgian Interior Ministry, via European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Grenades; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%) C J Chivers; Vladimir Arutyunian; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) GEORGIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (79%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); Tbilisi (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



422 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CHINA'S CURRENCY SHIFT: THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Falls Against Asian Currencies After China Says It Will End Link

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar dropped sharply yesterday against the Japanese yen and other Asian currencies and Treasury yields shot higher after China announced that it was revaluing its currency and ending its direct tie to the dollar.
 But the dollar was off much less against the euro, and the stock market, while down for the day, did not slump significantly even after China's announcement and the bombings in London. Shares of Wal-Mart, which buys billions of dollars of goods from China, fell 1.2 percent.
But the market might have been ripe for a fall anyway; both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index reached four-year highs on Wednesday. 
 Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at Johnson Illington Advisors, said the overall reaction in both the stock and bond markets was ''subdued,'' which he took as a positive sign.
 It is too early to know the China move's long-term impact on the dollar and the Treasury market, analysts said. Handicapping was hampered by the fact that the Chinese disclosed few details of how its new foreign exchange operations would work.
 All that was said was that the Chinese currency, the yuan, which was pegged to the value of the dollar, would now be a managed currency whose value would be set in relation to a basket of currencies. The currencies were not identified, and it is not clear yet how much higher the Chinese will allow the yuan to move against the dollar.
 ''One thing I would emphasize is how little we know,'' said Steven Englander, chief foreign exchange strategist for the Americas at Barclay's Capital.
 Mr. Englander said that if China continued the revaluation of its currency at a modest pace -- say 4 percentage points more over the next 12 months -- it should have minimal effect on the dollar's value against the euro. As for the yen, the impact should be larger, but he argued that there were still more important factors influencing the dollar against the yen, including the Japanese economy. 
 Lewis Alexander, chief economist at Citigroup, said the firm's forecast for a decline in the dollar was based partly ''on our assumption that China would do something like this.'' But Mr. Alexander also said a weakening of the dollar would require a slowdown of growth in the United States and a pickup abroad. 
 The drop in the dollar yesterday reflects the view that the currencies of Japan and other Asian countries will rise if the Chinese continue to revalue their currency higher. 
 In addition, Japan is likely to be a little less resistant to a rise of the yen against the dollar because the revaluation of the Chinese yuan, if it continues, would make a yen increase against the dollar less damaging to Japan's competitive standing compared with China.
 The dollar dropped 2.6 percent against the yen, to 110.08 yen, but just 0.7 percent against the euro, which was valued at $1.2189. 
 The Treasury market sold off because investors believe that the currency shift by China will mean the government will hold fewer dollars in their reserves and thus will buy fewer Treasury securities in the future.
 China had to sell yuan and buy dollars to keep the yuan pegged to the value of the dollar. With the reinvestment of these dollars, China has become the second-largest holder of Treasury securities after Japan, with $243.5 billion, and also a big buyer of securities from government-sponsored agencies like Fannie Mae.
 The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 4.27 percent, from 4.16 percent on Wednesday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 29/32, to 9826/32.
 Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, said the yuan revaluation ''is more likely to be bad for Treasuries than good.'' But he said it was unclear what the ultimate effect would be.
 Mr. Alexander of Citigroup argued that the Chinese could actually have to buy more dollars in the future to keep the yuan from rising in value further or faster than they want.
 This would happen, he said, if the new Chinese currency regime actually encourages more investment from abroad. And this could happen if investors decide they want to invest in China before the price of the yuan rises further, making it more expensive. 
 As for whether the currency move will help reduce the United States trade deficit with China and its record deficit with the world, analysts said the revaluation would not accomplish that result on its own. The need to reduce these deficits has been one reason the Bush administration had been pressing China to decouple the yuan from the dollar. 
 But Mr. Alexander said the move was ''significant in that it is the beginning of a process that will help to close global imbalances over the long run.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Currency Reverberations''China's revaluation of the yuan weakened the dollar, which had been rallying, and accelerated a recent rise in interest rates in the Treasury market.Graph shows the THE DOLLAR'S CHANGE AGAINST FOREIGN CURRENCIES vs. the EURO, CHINESE YUAN, JAPANESE YEN, and KOREAN WON... and the 10-YEAR TREASURY YIELD (CHANGE IN U.S. TREASURIES)(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (92%); CURRENCIES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EURO (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BOMBINGS (56%) Currency; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (68%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) JAPAN (96%); CHINA (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) China; Japan; Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



423 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Era Taught People To Gamble

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE Alan Greenspan era, which is drawing to an end, deserves to be remembered as the era in which many millions of Americans were forced to become gamblers. That it was also an era when many of those gambles paid off should not obscure the fundamental change.
 When Mr. Greenspan took over the Federal Reserve from Paul A. Volcker in the summer of 1987, the stock market was hot and there were warnings of a price collapse. The crash arrived, but what seems remarkable now is just how unimportant that was. No recession followed. 
One reason for the mild economic impact was that the world of 1987 was still largely one in which people who played the stock market wanted to play the stock market. Those who did not could lock in perfectly reasonable returns without taking much risk, for example by investing in Treasury bills. As Mr. Greenspan took office, banks were advertising one-year certificates of deposit at more than 8 percent, more than double the annual inflation rate.
 But the most important fact for average Americans was that they were likely to have defined-benefit pension plans from their employers. In such pensions, the company put money into stocks and bonds to pay for benefits, and it took the risk that the investments would not work out.
 All that has changed, as was demonstrated this week by Hewlett-Packard. It plans to cut 14,500 jobs and will no longer contribute to defined-benefit pension plans for those who are left. 
 The pension plans that remain tend to be, as Bradley D. Belt, the executive director of the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, told Congress last month, ''in our oldest, most mature industries.'' The agency now assumes that most of the workers covered by its insurance are no longer working for the companies where they earned pensions, having retired or taken jobs elsewhere.
 Within the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, three-quarters of the companies still have defined-benefit plans, but more and more of them are legacy plans, closed to new employees and no longer accumulating benefits for workers who are in the plans. S.&P. reports that only 191 companies in its index had pension plans with assets of $1 billion or more at the end of last year. The majority of the nearly $1.3 trillion in assets in S.&P. 500 pension funds are in just 22 companies. 
 MOST private-sector workers now have defined-contribution plans. Such plans can work out well, but there are no guarantees. Workers may or may not make wise (or lucky) investment decisions. They may choose to cut back on contributions when times are tight, making an adequate retirement income even less likely. 
 In his testimony this week, Mr. Greenspan warned that while Social Security traditionally provided workers with around 40 percent of their preretirement income, that was unlikely to continue, leaving them even more dependent on savings and pensions. President Bush thinks putting some Social Security money into private accounts would benefit the workers, but if it does, it would be because the gamble on stocks worked out, something it might not do.
 What all this has meant is that workers whose parents viewed the stock market as something for rich people to play now find themselves forced to take part in it.
 Is it good for them? One answer comes from investor attitudes toward companies that have pension plans. Over all, plans in S.&P. 500 companies ended last year with assets worth $164 billion less than their liabilities, and that scares investors, who tend to applaud companies that do what Hewlett-Packard is doing -- shifting the risk to the workers.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows the difference between six-month Treasury Bill rate and annual inflation rate. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BONDS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INFLATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); LAYOFFS (71%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (66%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



424 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: U.S. in Wary Diplomacy With Besieged Philippine Leader

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER and CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA, July 21 

 BODY:
President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo has been beleaguered by charges of election fraud and corruption, and faces demands for her ouster, and now the American Embassy has been drawn into the fray.
 The embassy, fearing a coup or martial law or chaos, has issued a series of public statements and warnings, including an interview by the acting ambassador on a popular television show. Many Filipinos on both sides of the feud appear to have welcomed what in the past they would have condemned as American interference.
 Already Mrs. Arroyo has been forced to send her husband, Jose Miguel Arroyo, who is accused of taking bribes from gambling syndicates, into exile. But the political crisis continues. 
 This week opposition legislators began drafting articles of impeachment. She has lost the support of many church and business leaders and civic groups, and a number of members of her cabinet have resigned, saying she has lost her credibility to govern. 
 Mrs. Arroyo made a surprise appearance at the embassy's Fourth of July celebration, the first she has attended in four years as president. 
 ''She wanted to send a signal,'' Rigoberto Tiglao, a senior adviser to Mrs. Arroyo, said this week. The opposition was spreading rumors that the Bush administration had withdrawn its support for her, and by attending she was seeking to rebut that notion, he said. ''If Americans decide to drop support of the Philippine president, it crumbles.'' 
 Corazon Soliman, who was director of the Department of Social Welfare and Development and is one of the officials who resigned, said, ''What everyone is trying to do is get the American approval.''
 What is on many people's minds here is 1986, when the Reagan administration sent a message to the dictator Ferdinand Marcos that it was ''time to cut, and cut cleanly.'' That came after weeks of street demonstrations that gave rise to the term ''people power'' and was considered the final blow to Marcos. 
 Without a resolution of the political battles, the nation faces stagnation, diplomats and neutral Philippine analysts said this week. What the nation needs, they say, is decisive leadership to address the economic and social problems in a country long ruled by an elite that has grown ever more wealthy, while the huge numbers of poor grow ever more poor, and the middle class flees to jobs in America, Australia, and Canada.
 While not seeking to play down the seriousness of the political crisis, one Western diplomat described it as ''the elites squabbling among themselves,'' with little impact on the daily life of most of the 84 million Filipinos, who have grown accustomed to politicians' slinging mud, using their office for personal gain, and not delivering programs that help them.
 Mrs. Arroyo came to power in 2001 after another round of political turmoil in which President Joseph Estrada was forced out of office by allegations that he had received payoffs from gambling lords. Mrs. Arroyo, who was vice president, succeeded him, and generated great hope with her promises to clean up the political system, reduce the power and privileges of the elite, collect taxes and help the poor. 
 It was an ambitious agenda, but she made some progress.
 ''My four years and seven months had really shown me the good side of government and the possibility of reform,'' said Ms. Soliman, a community organizer who was active in the popular demonstrations that toppled both Mr. Marcos and Mr. Estrada.
 Mrs. Arroyo appears to have gone off the good government tracks during last year's presidential election, when her main challenger was a high-school dropout and actor, Fernando Poe Jr.
 She won by a million votes, but the political storm, already seeded by allegations that her husband and one of her sons, Juan Miguel, were taking bribes from illegal gambling operators, gathered force as rumors intensified that she had been taped talking to election officials, telling them to pad her victory margin. (Her husband and son, now in San Francisco, have denied the allegations.)
 After repeated denials of the accusations, Mrs. Arroyo went on television, admitted that she had spoken to election officials and apologized for a ''lapse in judgment.'' She insisted that she was only trying to protect her legitimate vote. 
 Then a few days later, the Supreme Court blocked her administration from increasing a value-added tax that Mrs. Arroyo had worked to pass, and several cabinet members became convinced that she had intervened with the court, two former members said, fearing that the a tax increase at this time would strengthen the street demonstrations. 
 Mr. Tiglao, the adviser to Mrs. Arroyo, denied that she had done anything improper to influence the court. But a week after the decision, 10 senior cabinet members resigned, and more have resigned since. 
 The day of the resignations, the acting American ambassador, Joseph Mussomeli, gave an interview to Dateline Philippines, a television news show that has a broad audience for its anchor, Ricky Carandang.
 The interview was a delicate balancing act by Mr. Mussomeli, a career diplomat. He praised the cabinet members who had resigned ''as very decent people'' and ''patriots.'' When Mr. Carandang asked if Mr. Mussomeli could ''categorically'' state that the United States supported Mrs. Arroyo, he replied, ''I could categorically tell you that we support the rule of law.'' 
 He said the United States did not want to see martial law or a military coup but was equally opposed to ''people power in the streets,'' a clear message to the opposition.
 Few here -- other than the die-hard opposition -- say Mrs. Arroyo is likely to step down anytime soon. But it is hard to find anyone, including her own advisers, who is confident she will remain in office until her term ends in 2010.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Filipinos opposed to President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo staged a noisy demonstration yesterday in Bacolod City, on Negros Island. Accusations of corruption surround Mrs. Arroyo, and legislators are starting to write articles of impeachment. The American position remains ambiguous. (Photo by Erik de Castro/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); COUPS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); IMPEACHMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); RIOTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) United States International Relations; United States Foreign Service; Demonstrations and Riots; Politics and Government; Martial Law; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Impeachment

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (94%) Raymond Bonner; Carlos H Conde; Gloria Macapagal (Pres) Arroyo; George W (Pres) Bush; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan; Ferdinand E (1917-89) Marcos

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) PHILIPPINES (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%) Philippines; Philippines

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



425 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; CHINA'S CURRENCY SHIFT: IN WASHINGTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: China Floats Free From the Dollar

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
The Bush administration welcomed China's move toward a more flexible currency on Thursday, but the cautious shift may not be enough to cool the anti-China sentiments boiling up in Congress.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow called it ''the start of an awfully important process'' that might resolve one of the biggest economic disputes between the United States and China.
 ''It is very positive,'' Mr. Snow told reporters on Thursday morning. ''I am particularly struck by the commitment of the Chinese government to get their currency into alignment with market forces.'' 
 But the ambiguity of the Chinese announcement, in which it said it would uncouple the value of the yuan and the dollar, made it impossible for administration officials to say whether it amounted to a real change or a token gesture.
 One senior administration official noted that Chinese leaders continued to describe their currency policy as ''managed.''
 China's currency policy is merely one element of a much broader anxiety. With the United States building up a trade deficit with China that could exceed $180 billion this year, anti-China sentiment in both parties is so high that even ardent free-trade advocates are prepared to vote for new restrictions.
 Indeed, lawmakers in both parties warned on Thursday that China could inflame resentments if its first initial step -- a 2.1 percent upward revaluation of the yuan -- did not lead to much broader revaluation. Critics have charged for years that China was giving itself an unfair trading advantage by keeping its currency at an artificially low value against the dollar, which made its exports to the United States cheaper than they would otherwise be.
 ''It is a good first step, albeit a baby step,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and co-sponsor of a bill that would threaten China with steep tariffs on its exports if it did not significantly change its currency policy. ''If there are not larger steps in the future, we will not have accomplished much.''
 House Republican leaders, meanwhile, were still hoping to pass a bill as early as next week that would make it easier for the United States to retaliate against Chinese exports that are subsidized by the government.
 Many economists estimate that the yuan is at least 15 percent undervalued.
 But analysts also agree that China would still have extraordinary cost advantages even if the yuan were allowed to float freely.
 As a result, the political tensions are likely to remain high as American officials grapple with complaints about piracy of American technology and entertainment, restrictions on American investment and a host of other issues. 
 ''The overwhelming sentiment of the nation, which is reflected in Congress, is that we should be taking a more aggressive stance and holding China accountable to world trading standards,'' said Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland and a leading point man for House Democrats on trade issues.
 Mr. Cardin dismissed China's announcement on Thursday as ''inadequate'' and predicted that it would have little impact on political sentiment in Congress.
 For the last two years, Mr. Snow has been trying to persuade China through polite diplomacy that a more flexible currency would be in its own interest.
 But while Chinese leaders professed their agreement in principle, they had balked at any actual change. Mr. Snow stepped up his rhetoric in April, saying that China was ready and should move ''now.''
 The real progress came only after the Senate in early April came close to passing the bill sponsored by Mr. Schumer and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
 In June, the Bush administration warned that China's currency policies were tantamount to currency manipulation and implied that it would take action if China failed to do anything by October.
 C. Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Economics, a policy research organization in Washington, said Chinese leaders were hoping their hesitant first step on currency policy would defuse both political pressure and financial pressure.
 ''My guess is they are trying to see the minimum they can get away with,'' Mr. Bergsten said. ''My own sense, based on historical experience, is that this won't do anything to reduce either kind of pressure, and, in fact, it might increase both kinds of pressure.''
 Representative Phil English, a Pennsylvania Republican and sponsor of a bill that would retaliate against government-subsidized exports from China, was skeptical as well.
 ''If this is a last best offer,'' Mr. English said Thursday, ''it is unacceptable.''
 Administration officials cautioned on Thursday that China's change on currency policy was unlikely to have a big or quick impact on the economy or on the United States' trade deficit.
 The immediate change is by all accounts inconsequential: an upward revaluation of the yuan by 2.1 percent being minuscule compared with China's inherent cost advantages.
 But China's central bank also outlined a process by which it might allow a looser currency policy. In its statement, the People's Bank of China said the yuan would be allowed to fluctuate as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar each day. 
 Taken literally, that could mean the dollar could be in for a long slow decline in value against the yuan, which would make Chinese products more expensive and American exports cheaper.
 But it remains unclear if the central bank will allow that to happen, and Bush administration officials admitted on Thursday that they did not know.
 Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said the Chinese move amounted to a cautious step toward a more market-based economy.
 "I think they've been cautious, and I think admirably so, but I look at it as a first step in a number of further adjustments as they invariably increase their participation in the world trading market,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow called the move ''very positive.'' (Photo by Yuri Gripas/Associated Press)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW ISSUES (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); POLITICS (60%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations

COMPANY: NEW YORK & CO INC (64%)

TICKER: NWY (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (64%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (77%) George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



426 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CHINA'S CURRENCY SHIFT: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: CHINESE TO STOP TYING CURRENCY ONLY TO DOLLAR

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZAand JOSEPH KAHN; David Barboza reported from Shanghai for this article, and Joseph Kahn from Beijing. Chris Buckley in Beijing and David Lague in Hong Kong contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 21 

 BODY:
After at least two years of resisting intense political and diplomatic pressure from its biggest trading partners, China said on Thursday that it would no longer peg its currency strictly to the dollar, a step that could allow it to rise gradually in value over time.
 The Chinese government said that the immediate appreciation of the yuan, its currency, would be modest, only about 2 percent of its value against the dollar, but that it would permit the yuan to fluctuate within a narrow, gradually shifting band against a group of foreign currencies.
 While far less of a change than Western officials had been seeking, the move broke a decade-old policy of linking China's currency system directly with the United States, an approach that had provided Chinese exporters with an advantage over their competitors elsewhere in Asia and had contributed to heightened political and trade conflicts between China and much of the rest of the world.
 In Washington, the Bush administration immediately hailed the decision but said that it planned to monitor carefully how Beijing carries out its new policy.
 ''I welcome China's announcement today that it is adopting a more flexible exchange rate regime,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said in a statement. ''As we have said, reform of China's currency regime is important for China and the international financial system.'' 
 The move is not expected to have any near-term effect on the huge American trade deficit with China or affect consumers. It is unlikely to divert the vast flow of dollars returning from China to financial markets in the United States, a movement that has helped keep American interest rates relatively low. 
 But over time, analysts said, China's decision to revalue the yuan and introduce a more flexible currency system should help defuse some of the tensions built up in the global economy and make it somewhat easier to manage relations with China as it emerges as a major economic, political and military power on the world stage. 
 Several foreign policy experts and analysts in China said the revaluation of the yuan, also known as the renminbi, reflected China's determination to stabilize its dealings with the United States despite hawkish calls from camps in both countries for a more combative stance.
 The political atmosphere has become even more highly charged lately over a bid by Cnooc, one of China's top oil and natural gas companies, to challenge Chevron's attempt to buy another American oil company, Unocal; and by a recent warning by a general in the People's Liberation Army that China might use nuclear weapons against the United States in the event of a conflict with Taiwan.
 The decision also comes just two months ahead of President Hu Jintao's planned visit to the United States to meet with President Bush, where they are expected to discuss not only economic and trade affairs, but such critical issues as the threat of nuclear weapons in North Korea and the status of Taiwan.
 ''My feeling is that the leadership would really like to take the politics out of the relations and return to a more pragmatic atmosphere,'' said Jia Qingguo, a Peking University scholar whose specialty is the United States. ''I don't expect that this one step will resolve the tension completely. But I think once the first step is taken, it will be easier to make currency adjustments later on. I think the key point is that China is willing to be flexible.''
 After the announcement, the dollar dropped sharply against the Japanese yen and other Asian currencies. Interest rates rose in the Treasury market. The dollar was off much less against the euro and the overall reaction in financial markets to China's decision was relatively subdued.
 The revaluation also touched off similar moves in other parts of Asia late Thursday. Malaysia said it would no longer tie its currency, the ringgit, to the American dollar. Singapore also said that it would move to a more flexible exchange rate.
 Economists called China's announcement an important first step in the country's move toward a flexible exchange system. But they said the initial 2 percent change, shifting its currency's value to 8.11 yuan to the dollar from the previously fixed rate of 8.28 yuan, will not have a meaningful effect on trade or the Chinese economy.
 ''Today's change is so minor that it will have no impact on the U.S. trade deficit, and also won't result in significantly higher prices at Wal-Mart,'' said Andrew Rothman, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Shanghai. 
 The small appreciation in the yuan would tend to make Chinese exports slightly more expensive and imports slightly less expensive, but it is not clear whether companies doing business in China will pass on the exchange rate changes to consumers or absorb them in their profit margins. 
 One risk of trying to manage a gradual rise in the value of the yuan is that it might encourage speculative money to flow into China on the hopes of profiting from a steady appreciation of the yuan. For several years, China has tried to tame huge flows of so-called hot money, but if those large capital inflows gain more momentum, they could increase the risks of inflation and asset bubbles in China, economists said.
 ''It's a risky move,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''It creates the expectation of more moves so there could be even more speculative inflows.''
 The Chinese government said in its announcement today that it planned to manage the yuan against a basket of foreign currencies that it did not disclose, keeping the value within a very narrow daily trading range of 0.3 percent. But because the trading rate will be allowed to shift gradually over time the yuan is expected to appreciate further.
 ''We are looking at 7 percent appreciation by the end of the year, and 10 percent within 12 months,'' said Frank Gong, chief economist in China for J.P. Morgan Chase. 
 While the timing was a carefully guarded secret, China's revaluation did not come as a surprise. Since 2003, the United States -- later joined by Europe -- has been stepping up the pressure on Beijing to increase the value of its currency, largely because China has been racking up ever-growing trade surpluses with the United States and, more recently, many other countries.
 The rise of China and its export-driven economy, experts say, has been powered, at least in part, by the artificially low value of the Chinese currency against the dollar. The dollar has depreciated against other currencies in recent years, making Chinese goods cheap not only in the United States but in Europe and other parts of the world as well.
 The demands for change have intensified this year as a sudden flood of Chinese-made apparel released by the elimination of global textile quotas touched off a wave of protectionist sentiment in the West.
 Earlier this year, some members of the Senate threatened to force a vote on legislation to impose a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese imports if China did not revalue its currency before the end of the year. They pulled back from that threat recently after the Bush administration and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, assured them that such a bill would be more likely to cause Beijing to delay adjusting its currency. 
 While concerns remain that the currency shift could produce some unanticipated adverse consequences, most economists argue that by allowing its exchange rate to be more flexible China could help itself by cooling off its sizzling-hot export-driven economy.
 For months, Chinese officials sent mixed signals about their willingness to make such a move. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, for example, declared recently that he considered the value of the currency to be a matter of China's sovereignty. The statement was widely taken to mean that Beijing would not cave in to international pressure. Other officials declared repeatedly that foreign interference would only delay a revaluation.
 Such statements fueled a nationalist backlash within China against adjusting the currency, with state media and prominent economists openly expressing opposition to any change. Several critics argued that Chinese exports, currently the driving force in economic growth, would suffer if the yuan appreciated, affecting job growth at a time when social unrest has already reached record levels across the country.
 The government this week denied that such a currency move was imminent. But at about 7 p.m. Thursday Beijing time, the nation's central bank disclosed the new policy.
 In the end, outside pressure may have proved decisive, said Fred Hu, a managing director of Goldman Sachs Asia, who has advocated a revaluation for several years.
 ''I think the tendency was to move slowly and delay the decision,'' he said. ''But China is acutely sensitive to U.S. concerns and is eager to placate Washington. On the margins, American pressure made the difference.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinese currency being counted at a branch of the China Construction Bank in Haian. (Photo by China Newsphoto/Reuters)(pg. C6)
 (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HU JINTAO (58%) David Barboza; Joseph Kahn; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



427 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; CHINA'S CURRENCY SHIFT: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Saying Goodbye to Mr. Greenspan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
An old Chinese saying holds that the longest journey begins with the first step, but in the case of China's currency policy shift yesterday, the destination of the journey has been left completely unclear and the chosen route has many risks.
 China has abandoned one of the world's clearest currency policies, a tightly managed peg of the yuan to the dollar that had endured since 1997. China has chosen instead to adopt one of the world's most opaque currency policies, with a secret mechanism to reset the yuan's value each night.
 For nearly eight years, Beijing's leaders trusted in Alan Greenspan, assuming that where the dollar went, China could safely follow. Now China's rulers are putting their trust in a much less well-known central banker: Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, who must manage the more discretionary policy put in place yesterday. Starting with the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and continuing through the rapid economic expansion since then, China has allowed the yuan to vary less than one-hundredth of a percent from its peg of 8.277 to the dollar. That impressive stability helped prompt business executives and entrepreneurs from around the world to invest $60 billion a year in new factories and other operations in China. These investors were confident that they knew what those businesses and their exports would be worth in dollars. 
 The People's Bank of China raised the value of the yuan by 2 percent on yesterday, to 8.11 to the dollar. But more important, the bank said that each evening, it would set a new trading range for the yuan to move within on the next trading day. To add to the uncertainty, each day's new range may not necessarily be expressed in terms of dollars, the bank warned. It did not provide examples, but the euro would be the most likely alternative.
 To determine the new peg, the central bank will look at how a basket of foreign currencies moved the day before. But the central bank did not reveal which currencies it will track or their relative weightings within the basket. This policy gives enormous discretion to China's leaders to push the yuan up or down as they choose.
 The only limit that the central bank put on its moves was a promise yesterday that the center of each day's trading range would not move more than 0.3 percent in either direction from the center of the previous day's range. But with 20 or so trading days in a month, that means China could in theory push its currency up by 6 percent a month -- or push it down by the same amount.
 Senior officials in China said in interviews last month that they were seriously considering the adoption of a so-called secret basket of currencies, an approach already followed by Singapore in setting the value of the Singapore dollar. But the officials also acknowledged that the secrecy of this approach carried a serious risk: it leaves China vulnerable to accusations from the United States and other countries that it is manipulating its currency so as to gain an advantage in trade.
 The United States Treasury came close in May to labeling China as a currency manipulator and demanded that China allow its currency to appreciate before the next official review in October; countries categorized as manipulators can be subject to trade sanctions. 
 Economists disagreed yesterday about how much change China would allow over the next few months in the value of its currency. Nicholas R. Lardy, a China expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, said that Chinese central bankers had had the legal discretion for years to let the yuan move in a wider range against the dollar, and had chosen not to exercise it.
 But Liang Hong, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Goldman Sachs, predicted that China would allow the yuan to rise gradually against the dollar. She compared the new policy to China's currency policy in late 1994, when Beijing first pegged the yuan to the dollar and then allowed it to crawl upward by a small fraction of 1 percent each trading day. This resulted in a total increase of 3 percent in 1994 and smaller increases thereafter. 
 For American consumers, China's new policy is unlikely to have much effect unless it is followed by much bigger currency moves in the months to come. Chinese exporters making everything from clothing to computers incur much of their costs in dollars, importing essentials like fuel, factory machinery and computer chips. 
 This will mean that the overall costs of good manufactured by Chinese producers will rise by considerably less than 2 percent, limiting their need to raise prices to American retailers. Moreover, China is strongest in the production of cheap goods like toys and T-shirts for which the wholesale price paid to the factory in China may be only a quarter of the price charged by a store in the United States. The stores charge much higher prices because they pay rents and wages at American levels.
 ''Prices in our stores are not changing any time soon,'' Amy Wyatt, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said.
 Rival exporters in Asia, mostly countries with low-wage work forces like China's, are expecting the yuan's rise to bring them little relief from the relentless expansion of Chinese companies in world markets. ''They will not increase their prices unless it really shoots up farther,'' said Annisul Huq, a textile magnate in Bangladesh.
 Executives from more than a dozen Chinese companies said in interviews over the last four months that they expected very little impact on their exports if the yuan rose less than 5 percent, and only a modest effect if it rose by 5 to 10 percent.
 A big question mark hanging over China's currency policy shift is not commercial but financial, economists said. If investors decide that China's secret currency policy will result in a stronger yuan, then they are likely to pour even more money into China -- a step that could feed inflation in China and make many Chinese long for the days when China still paid more heed to Mr. Greenspan than Mr. Zhou.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''What the Dollar and the Yuan Mean to Each Other''If the Chinese government continues to revalue the yuan as it did yesterday, there may be far-reaching effects on the United States and Chinese economies. Instead of the yuan being pegged to a fixed-value in dollars, it will fluctuate in relation to a basket of foreign currencies.1. CHINA'S CURRENCYChina pegged the value of the yuan to the dollar in 1994 and has kept it at 8.28 to the dollar since 1997. This peg helped Chinese exports because without it China's rising economic strength would have made the yuan more valuable, which would have made Chinese goods more costly in foreign markets. America has been the biggest buyer of inexpensive Chinese exports.2. CHINA'S INVESTMENT IN U.S. BONDSDollars have flowed into China for investments and to buy goods. To keep the yuan from rising against the dollar, the Chinese government has had to buy dollars, many of which have been invested in U.S. Treasuries.3. U.S. MORTGAGE RATESThe billions China has invested in Treasury securities and bonds from government agencies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have helped hold down interest rates for mortgages and have fed the housing boom.4. U.S. INFLATIONA flood of cheap goods from China has helped hold down inflation in the United States partly by making it harder for rival American producers and manufacturers in other countries to raise prices.5. THE OUTCOME FOR CHINAChina's economy has been at risk of overheating as investments and exports have soared.Graph shows CHINA'S GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT since 2000.Low costs in China, partly from the cheap yuan, have made the country an attractive place to invest.Graph shows FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT IN CHINAAs China has grown, it has driven up commodities prices around the world. A stronger yuan will make commodities cheaper for Chinese manufacturers.CHINA'S SHARE OF GLOBAL CONSUMPTION IN 2004Cement: 47%Cotton: 35Steel: 27Aluminum: 21Lead: 20Copper: 20Soybeans: 17Wheat: 17Oil: 12**2003WHAT $69 BILLION BUYSCumulative U.S. Imports through April '05Other: 5.2%Fabricated, manufactured metals: 6.0%Furniture: 6.0%Minerals, plastics, chemicals: 7.0%Leather, leather products: 7.7%Toys, misc. products: 10.6%Textiles, clothing: 10.8%Machinery, transportation equipment, appliances: 15.9%Computers, electronic products: 30.9%(Sources by Census Bureau
CEIC
Treasury Dept.
Bankrate.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Bloomberg News
Economy.com
Agriculture Dept.
Int'l Copper Study Group
Int'l Iron and Steel Institute
The Mining, Minerals and Sustainable Development Project
J.P. Morgan Chase
 Energy Information Administration)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNATIONAL COPPER STUDY GROUP (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) People's Bank of China; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Zhou Xiaochuan; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



428 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CHINA'S CURRENCY SHIFT: THE TRADE SURPLUS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Impact on Chinese Companies: For Most, Not Much

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY; David Lague of The International Herald Tribune contributed reporting from Hong Kong for this article.

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 21 

 BODY:
China's revaluation of its currency by 2 percent against the United States dollar, announced here Thursday night, represents a sliver of the sharp rise that politicians in Washington demanded to stanch China's ballooning trade surplus. 
 But even this slight adjustment may slow Chinese exports and damp the country's economic growth, China's central bank suggested in one of many opinions Thursday on the effect of the stronger yuan.
''In the short term, reform of the exchange rate mechanism will have some impact on economic growth and employment,'' a spokesman for the People's Bank of China told the official Xinhua News Agency.
 China's longstanding exchange rate of 8.27 yuan to the dollar contributed to China's growing trade surplus, but also worsened trade frictions, he said. ''Moving forward with reform of the renminbi exchange rate mechanism will ease external trade imbalances,'' the spokesman said; the currency is also known as the renminbi. 
 China's trade surplus reached $40 billion in the first six months of the year as exports grew 33 percent over the period last year, according to Chinese customs data.
 Across a range of industries, the assessments of how the slightly looser exchange rate would affect business ranged from nonchalant to dire. In general, larger businesses with strong capital bases are expected to cope easily with the change; manufacturers squeezed by intense competition and low profits may feel its impact, economists and investors said.
 ''It won't have a big effect, because 2 percent is a very limited rise,'' said Zhang Shuguang, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing who has studied the possible impact of revaluation. ''There will be some impact, but it will be on those labor-intensive processing businesses with low profit margins, not the whole sector.''
 Steel has been among China's fastest-growing exports, soaring 208 percent in the first five months of this year compared with the period last year. But the currency move will have little impact on those exports, said Xu Zhongbo, the chief executive of Beijing Metal Consulting, which advises some of China's major steel makers. 
 ''I think a change of only 2 percent will make no real difference to the steel industry,'' he said. ''The government is only showing to the outside world that China can be flexible.''
 But Ruan Xiaoming, who makes sewing machines in eastern China and whose Gemsy Holding Group has been held up by the government as a model small exporter, bemoaned the revaluation as a blow to his business.
 ''This is going to hurt us badly; the losses will be big,'' he said. ''It's simple: our profits will go down 2 percent, and that's a big fall for a business like ours.'' 
 But executives in other export industries that have been threatened by quotas and antidumping tariffs by the United States and Europe saw little lasting pain in the revaluation.
 ''It won't affect us much,'' said Liu Peisheng, the deputy manager of Nanheng Furniture Production, an exporter in Lecong, in far southern China. ''The whole industry here will be affected the same way as us, and Chinese goods will still be cheaper than other places.'' 
 He said that the revaluation was unlikely to induce customers to move orders to other countries. ''China's price advantage is too large to them for that to happen,'' he said. 
 Textile and garment manufacturers also said that the revaluation might hurt exporters, especially smaller ones, but larger, more established exporters would be able to absorb lost earnings. 
 The Fountain Set Group, a fabric maker that has headquarters in Hong Kong and is China's second-biggest textile exporter, was named in a study by Morgan Stanley as one of the China-based companies most vulnerable to revaluation. The study suggested that Fountain Set would lose 4 percent of profit for every rise of 1 percent in the yuan exchange rate against the dollar.
 But Gordon Yen, Fountain Set's executive director, said the company would lose little in long-term competitiveness from revaluation, because its chief competitors would be similarly affected.
 ''It will affect costs in dollar terms,'' he said in remarks made before the revaluation, ''but the important thing is that these changes apply to everyone producing in China.''
 Sue Kearney, who analyzes the textile and garment sector for the business consultant A.T. Kearney in Chicago, estimated that the yuan would have to rise 18 percent against the dollar -- a jump far higher than China has ever hinted at contemplating -- to erase China's current competitive advantage over rival exporters in making blue jeans. 
 Yu Jie, an economic commentator and manager at China Guangsha, a private real estate and investment conglomerate, said, ''Some businesses may die, but not the larger ones. This is just a small, exploratory step that most businesses can cope with.'' If China's exporters were badly hurt by the revaluation, the government might step in with tax rebates and other measures to restore profits and competitiveness, he added. 
 ''The government will also use this as a pawn in trade talks with the U.S. and Europe to gain trade concessions for China,'' he said, ''so there may be some other gains from it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about the revaluation of China's currency and its effect on the country's trade surplus with the United States misstated the surname of an analyst at the consulting firm A.T. Kearney, who commented on the change. She is Sue Field, not Kearney.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese workers at the Jiulong factory in Wenzhou produce shoes for the export market, and most of the output goes to Europe. (Photo by Richard Krause/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); MISC INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Foreign Labor; Currency

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%)

PERSON: Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



429 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: China Unpegs Itself

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Thursday's statement from the People's Bank of China, announcing that the yuan is no longer pegged to the dollar, was terse and uninformative -- you might say inscrutable. There's a good chance that this is simply a piece of theater designed to buy a few months' respite from protectionist pressures in the U.S. Congress.
 Nonetheless, it could be the start of a process that will turn the world economy upside down -- or, more accurately, right side up. That is, the free ride China has been giving America, in which the world's richest economy has been getting cheap loans from a country that is dynamic but still quite poor, may be coming to an end. 
It's all about which way the capital is flowing.
 Capital usually flows from mature, developed economies to less-developed economies on their way up. For example, a lot of America's growth in the 19th century was financed by investors from Britain, which was already industrialized. 
 A decade ago, before the world financial crisis of 1997-1998, capital movements seemed to fit the historic pattern, as funds flowed from Japan and Western nations to ''emerging markets'' in Asia and Latin America. But these days things are running in reverse: capital is flowing out of emerging markets, especially China, and into the United States.
 This uphill flow isn't the result of private-sector decisions; it's the result of official policy. To keep China's currency from rising, the Chinese government has been buying up huge quantities of dollars and investing the proceeds in U.S. bonds. 
 One way to grasp how weird this policy is would be to think about what a comparable policy would look like in the United States, scaled up to match the size of our economy. It's as if last year the U.S. government invested $1 trillion of taxpayers' money in low-interest Japanese bonds, and this year looks set to invest an additional $1.5 trillion the same way. 
 Some economists think there is a deep rationale for this seemingly perverse policy. I think it's something the Chinese government stumbled into as it tried to protect itself from the 1997-1998 crisis, and it is reluctant to change because the Chinese economy has been doing well. That is, China's leaders don't want to mess with success.
 But pressures against China's dollar purchases are building. By keeping the yuan down, China is feeding a trade surplus that is creating a growing political backlash in America and Europe. And China, which is still a poor country, is devoting a lot of resources to the accumulation of a basically useless pile of dollars instead of to higher living standards.
 The question is what happens to us if the Chinese finally decide to stop acting so strangely.
 An end to China's dollar-buying spree would lead to a sharp rise in the value of the yuan. It would probably also lead to a sharp fall in the value of the dollar relative to other major currencies, like the yen and the euro, which the Chinese haven't been buying on the same scale. This would help U.S. manufacturers by raising their competitors' costs.
 But if the Chinese stopped buying all those U.S. bonds, interest rates would rise. This would be bad news for housing -- maybe very bad news, if the interest rate rise burst the bubble.
 In the long run, the economic effects of an end to China's dollar buying would even out. America would have more industrial workers and fewer real estate agents, more jobs in Michigan and fewer in Florida, leaving the overall level of employment pretty much unaffected. But as John Maynard Keynes pointed out, in the long run we are all dead. 
 In the short run, some people would win, but others would lose. And I suspect that the losers would greatly outnumber the winners.
 And what about the strategic effects? Right now America is a superpower living on credit -- something I don't think has happened since Philip II ruled Spain. What will happen to our stature if and when China takes away our credit card?
 This story is still in its early days. On the first day of the new policy, the yuan rose only 2 percent, not enough to make any noticeable difference. But one of these days Chinese dollar purchases will trail off, and we'll find ourselves living in interesting times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) United States International Relations; United States Economy; Currency

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



430 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Sudanese Guards Rough Up U.S. Aides and Reporter as Rice Visits

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: ABU SHOUK, Sudan, July 21 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's official visit with President Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir of Sudan on Thursday turned ugly after Sudanese security officers manhandled members of her delegation and the news media, blocking their way to the meeting in the presidential palace.
 Ms. Rice said she was ''outraged'' and demanded an official apology, which the Sudanese foreign minister delivered by phone a little more than an hour later. But it was clear the incident left her angry and worsened an already difficult relationship. 
 ''They had no right to manhandle my staff,'' she said afterward, adding, the Sudanese ''still have a long way to go.'' 
 As James Wilkinson, her communications director, tried to join the meeting, security officers shoved him against a wall. ''Diplomacy 101 says you don't rough up your guests,'' Mr. Wilkinson said afterward.
 After Ms. Rice entered the meeting with Mr. Bashir, they sat in awkward silence for almost 10 minutes because Mr. Bashir speaks only Arabic and his security guards refused to admit Ms. Rice's interpreter. 
 Ms. Rice's deputy, Robert B. Zoellick, has visited Sudan three times in three months, pressing its leaders to end the violence in Darfur that has taken 200,000 lives in the last two years. The United States characterizes the deaths as genocide. 
 Andrew S. Natsios, director of the United States Agency for International Development, said government troops and government-backed militias have destroyed or heavily damaged 2,000 villages in the last two years. As a result, almost half of Darfur's five and a half million residents have been killed or fled to refugee camps.
 When Ms. Rice, in her meeting with Mr. Bashir, asked him once again to disarm the government-backed militias responsible for most of the violence, he replied, ''If you disarm only one side in this conflict, the result is going to be genocide,'' said an aide to Ms. Rice who was at the meeting. Another aide said Mr. Bashir's voice had no hint of irony. The other side, as Mr. Bashir sees it, is the rebels who began the Darfur conflict two years ago. 
 After the meeting, American and Sudanese reporters and photographers were allowed to enter the room to take pictures and observe. Mr. Bashir was telling Ms. Rice about the historical significance of his ancestral home when Andrea Mitchell of NBC News shouted a question to him: ''Why should Americans believe your promises'' regarding Darfur, when ''your government is still supporting the militias?''
 Two Sudanese security officers grabbed her from behind and dragged her from the room. Mr. Bashir did not respond to the question or otherwise comment. Ms. Rice boarded her plane a short time later for the 90-minute flight here, the site of the second largest refugee camp in Darfur. Her face grim, she said: ''I am about the only person they did not rough up. I expect an apology before we land.'' 
 Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail called just before she landed to apologize for ''the mistreatment of our delegation,'' an aide to Ms. Rice said. But when Ms. Rice stepped off the plane in El Fashir a few minutes later she was still not smiling.
 Relations between the United States and Sudan have been strained for more than a decade. In 1997 the United States withdrew its ambassador, accusing Sudan of sponsoring terrorists, including Osama bin Laden, who lived here for part of the 1990's. Last year, however, the United States helped broker a peace agreement in a 20-year civil war between the central government and rebels in the south. But Darfur has overshadowed that accomplishment.
 Under the north-south agreement, John Garang, the rebel leader, joined the new government two weeks ago as first vice president. Ms. Rice visited him on Thursday morning in his big new office, complete with crystal chandeliers and overstuffed chairs.
 In Darfur, Ms. Rice greeted several hundred Rwandan peacekeeping troops who were standing in formation in the sun. Two United States Air Force C-130 transport planes attached to NATO that had brought them here from Rwanda this morning were directly behind, their engines running. As Ms. Rice and her entourage approached, several of the soldiers look puzzled.
 The African Union has promised to increase its peacekeeping presence in Darfur to more than 7,000 from 2,700 by September. Because none of the African nations offering the troops have the capacity to airlift the soldiers here, though, Ms. Rice and her aides arranged this first airlift through NATO, timed to coincide with her arrival. More airlifts are planned, but it is unclear when. 
 In the Abu Shouk refugee camp, home to 71,000 to 100,000 people, depending on whose estimate is used, 200 children greeted Ms. Rice. They sang in Arabic, ''Welcome, welcome, oh Condoleezza'' over and over again. 
 She met with private aid groups and then with women who had been raped or otherwise abused by militia members, rebels or government troops. Violence against women has become a volatile issue between Sudan and the United States, and Ms. Rice said the Sudanese gave her a ''white paper'' explaining how they would deal with it. But she said she was skeptical about their promises. Looking at children in the camp, she said, ''We want these children not to grow up in a nursery of a refugee camp.'' But neither she nor anyone else here offered much optimism that security would improve so that refugees could go home. 
 Neils Scott, director of the Darfur office for the United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said ''there's still lawlessness out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrea Mitchell, right, of NBC News, with an unidentified State Department official yesterday after Sudanese guards dragged her from a room where Condoleezza Rice had met with the president of Sudan. (Pool Video by The Associated Press)Map of Sudan highlighting Abu Shouk: Ms. Rice visited a camp of up to 100,000 refugees at Abu Shouk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); GENOCIDE (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); WAR CRIMES (70%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (70%); REFUGEES (70%); HISTORY (65%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) United States International Relations; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; News and News Media 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); OMAR AL-BASHIR (88%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (59%) Joel Brinkley; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Omar Hassan Al- (Pres) Bashir; Andrea Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



431 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show Accord On Inflation and Rate Rises

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve agreed in June that they had to be especially vigilant for signs of rising inflation and that they needed to keep raising interest rates.
 ''The members concurred that, at this stage in the expansion, with margins of slack resources narrowing and inflation somewhat higher, the committee needed to be particularly alert to signs of a further increase in inflation,'' according to minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on June 29 and June 30, which were made public on Thursday.
 The policy makers were upbeat about economic prospects but clearly determined to pinch off any possibility of a succession of price increases gaining a foothold. 
 ''Such an increase could be particularly problematic because it might impart upward momentum to inflation expectations that would be costly to reverse,'' the minutes said.
 The minutes said the committee members agreed that ''additional tightening would probably be necessary'' but had a range of views on how many more rate increases would be required.
 The members said that ''measured'' rate increases seemed appropriate for now -- wording that meant policy makers favored smaller quarter-percentage-point increases rather than larger ones.
 At the end of the June meeting, the committee announced a ninth consecutive increase of a quarter of a percentage point, to 3.25 percent, in the federal funds rate charged on overnight loans between banks -- its main tool for setting the nation's monetary policy.
 Analysts expect the rate to keep rising to around 4 percent by the end of the year with the economy in a continuing expansion. 
 At the June meeting, the policy makers discussed high housing prices and noted that long-term interest rates had declined despite substantial increases in short-term rates over the last year.
 While they noted some shift toward ''potentially riskier types of mortgages'' by homebuyers, there were no signs that lenders were experiencing greater problems having the loans repaid.
 But it was clear the Fed was watching the housing market.
 Testifying before Congressional committees on Wednesday and Thursday, the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, noted that there was ''froth'' in some regional housing markets and that home prices might level off or decline in some of them. But he said the impact on the broader economy would probably be small.
 On Thursday, Mr. Greenspan also took fresh aim at the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, telling Congress that legislation to rein them in must go further than lawmakers now propose.
 The Fed chief said it would be better to have no legislation at all than to push forward with a bill that has already passed a House of Representatives committee. Specifically, Congress must force Fannie and Freddie to cut their big investment portfolios, Mr. Greenspan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005



432 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: It's How You Do the Math, Analysts Say of Bond Issue

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 22 

 BODY:
Behind the increasingly personal fight between Gov. George E. Pataki and State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi over a proposal to refinance $2.9 billion worth of transportation bonds is a question of math, although perhaps not a simple one.
 It boils down to whether the refinancing would cost taxpayers an extra $460 million, as the comptroller says, or save them $30 million, as the governor says.
The comptroller, a Democrat, has called the plan proposed by the Republican governor a ''fiscal gimmick.'' He said that the refinancing would mean $1.3 billion in upfront savings, which is earmarked to help build and improve bridges, roads, rail service, ports and related facilities, but that huge payments would come due in the future that would add up to a $460 million hit to taxpayers. So on Thursday the comptroller moved to block the deal, and no progress was reported on resolving the dispute on Friday. 
 The Pataki administration countered that Mr. Hevesi was ''playing politics on this issue'' in retribution for the governor's veto of a bill that would have given Mr. Hevesi more flexibility in investing state pension funds, which the comptroller denies. The administration said the comptroller's decision led it to stop awarding new transportation projects, but maintained that rather than costing extra money, the refinancing plan would save $30 million over the life of the loan.
 So who is right? It depends on how you count. 
 On Friday, the comptroller's office stood behind its math and said the refinancing plan would save $1.312 billion in the first five years, mainly by deferring payments of principal for five years. But then, like a balloon, it would increase debt service costs by $1.772 billion from 2011 to 2025, the remaining 15 years. The burden to future taxpayers would be an additional $460 million in debt service. The office also said the average life of the bonds was being increased.
 Aides to the governor disputed that analysis. They said that because inflation shrinks the value of today's dollars over time, the larger payments in the future would be worth less than the upfront savings, resulting in the $30 million in savings.
 Citing the ''time value of money,'' the governor's budget director, John F. Cape, said that any other way to do the calculations amounts to ''simplistic math.'' He added, ''You cannot just make up your own rules about how to measure it.'' The comptroller acknowledged that under the governor's theory, the $30 million figure could be correct, but he cautioned, ''This savings could easily evaporate based on assumptions used and market conditions.''
 The fight cast doubt on a part of a multibillion-dollar plan for transportation projects across the state. Mr. Hevesi said the anticipated upfront savings of $1.3 billion could be made up easily over five years, taking money from what he said was an anticipated surplus of $600 million this year. 
 But Michael Marr, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget, said the surplus estimated by the comptroller ''is just plain wrong.'' He added, ''It's shocking that he wants to raid the state's fiscal reserves to fund the fiscal hole that he himself has now created.''
 Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for Mr. Hevesi, said the $600 million figure came from the governor. ''We don't make up numbers,'' he said. ''It's his number.''
 Unions are intently watching the battle. Denis M. Hughes, the president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said he hoped cooler heads would prevail. Francis X. McArdle, the managing director of the General Contractors Association of New York, said, ''On the merits, the comptroller is right,'' since the refinancing plan would mean ''less money for real work'' in the future.
 As lawmakers, their staffs and independent budget analysts surveyed the fallout and made calculations, several officials said it matters not so much who is right, but how the fight can be resolved so that construction on the transportation projects can begin. 
 ''You can spin it any way you want,'' said a legislative official who insisted on anonymity for fear of scuttling the negotiations to solve the dispute. ''They could both be right or they could both be wrong, but the thing is it is irrelevant at this point. What is real is that there is six billion dollars in projects that are in jeopardy if this does not go through.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); VETO (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (52%) Transportation; Finances; Government Bonds

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



433 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: China and the U.S. Embark on a Perilous Trip

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The dollar may be on a healthier course for now, but that does not silence the prophets of doom who fear a collapse of the currency or some other economic crisis as Americans continue to buy far more abroad than they sell.
 The question is, Are those who see catastrophe ahead Cassandras accurately foretelling the future or Chicken Littles, wrong yet again about the dangers of a falling dollar?
The announcement from China on Thursday that it would, at long last, raise the value of the yuan against the dollar and continue to do so gradually quiets the alarmists for the moment. Thanks to the revaluation, no one can claim that the sky is falling -- at least this weekend. ''The Chicken Littles are really wrong,'' said James Glassman, chief domestic economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. 
 But such criticism hasn't stopped the Cassandras from pressing their case.
 Even gradually reducing the value of the dollar by an amount large enough -- say 30 percent to 40 percent -- so that Americans are finally discouraged from buying increasingly expensive Asian goods, may have unpleasant consequences. Among other dangers there is the risk that China will cut back on its purchases of American government securities, contributing to a sharp rise in long-term interest rates. 
 The Cassandras who hold this view are a distinct minority, like their original in ancient Greece. Still, the most prominent, like Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve Board chairman, are hard to ignore. 
 ''The circumstances seem to be as dangerous and intractable as any I can remember,'' Mr. Volcker said Thursday, repeating an earlier warning in a February speech. ''If people lose confidence in the dollar as a store of value, or lose confidence in the political strength of the United States relative to other countries, there is going to be trouble. I'm not saying a crisis is inevitable or that an orderly adjustment is impossible, but at some point big adjustments will have to be made.'' 
 The problem stems from America's persistent buying of much more from other countries, particularly China and Japan, than those countries purchase from the United States. The payment for the imports is in dollars, and because the foreigners do not use all of the dollars to make offsetting purchases here, they lend the excess back to Americans, who then use the loans to purchase more from abroad.
 That satisfies this country's desire to consume and Asia's desire to step up production and employment for its vast population. But America's indebtedness to the rest of the world is rising at an annual rate approaching $700 billion. Everyone agrees that this indebtedness cannot continue to go up indefinitely. But while the pessimists see a sharp painful correction in the not-so-distant future, the optimists, a camp that includes the Bush administration and much of Wall Street, argue that the present arrangement is quite sustainable. 
 ''The Asians have no choice but to hold onto our dollars,'' Mr. Glassman said. ''If they dumped them, they would be jeopardizing their own development.''
 To which Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley -- whom many on Wall Street view as too pessimistic -- replies: ''Because nothing bad has happened yet, there is a growing conviction that nothing bad will happen.''
 The revaluation that the Chinese initiated Thursday, even if it is the first step in what turns out to be an orderly devaluation of the dollar against the yuan and other Asian currencies, is not by itself enough to resolve the imbalance in America's international accounts. 
 The challenge will come once the price of imports begins to rise. At that point, Americans will have to produce for themselves much more of what they consume -- or pay a lot more for the privilege of importing. Ideally, the process would involve America's becoming a much bigger producing nation, even stepping up its exports to Asia, while Asia -- and especially China -- takes on more of the role of consumer.
 That is essentially the view of the Bush administration as outlined by Ben S. Bernanke, the newly appointed chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. ''We probably have little choice except to be patient as we work to create'' the necessary conditions for a reversal of roles, he said in a recent speech.
 That is not an easy transformation. Americans now produce only about 75 percent of the merchandise they purchase, importing the rest. That is down from 90 percent or so a decade ago, according to various studies. The percentage was even higher in the late 1980's, the last time the dollar went through a long, similarly managed decline -- in those pre-euro days -- against the German, French and Japanese currencies.
 As the dollar fell, manufacturing did revive in the United States. Exports jumped and the trade deficit shrank, but the interest rate manipulation involved in managing the currency helped to produce the stock market crash in October 1987, or so some economists argue. 
 This time the housing bubble could burst if the flow of dollars lent from Asia were to slow too abruptly. The result would be a shortage of money to lend and a rise in mortgage interest rates, which are tied to the yields on the Treasuries that the Japanese and Chinese often buy in the lending process. 
 That would not be a happy ending, but Henry Kaufman, the economist and money manager -- reflecting the optimism on Wall Street that revaluation and gradual adjustment will work -- argues that China and Japan benefit in other lucrative ways from lending to the United States.
 For the Chinese, acquiring Treasuries strengthens the capital base of their shaky banking system. 
 The Japanese government, for its part, turns a profit. ''It has a budget deficit of, say, $300 billion, which it funds by borrowing from the Japanese people at 1 percent,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''That money is reinvested in Treasuries at 3 percent or so, giving the Japanese two percentage points' profit. If the dollar were to weaken they would lose money. Why would they want to lose money?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, warns of problems if people lose confidence in the dollar. ''The circumstances seem to be as dangerous and as intractable as any I can remember,'' he said this week. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. C13)
 (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BONDS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: Paul A Volcker; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



434 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Simmer as Demand Outstrips Electricity Supply

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: ERBIL, Iraq 

 BODY:
As the relentless summer heat in Iraq soars toward its August peak, electricity demand is roughly 25 percent higher than it was one year ago, while the supply to the nation's power grid is only slightly changed despite a $6 billion American program to rebuild the electrical infrastructure.
 Those numbers, which come from the Iraqi Electricity Ministry, the American Embassy and the Pentagon, are being interpreted in widely varying ways by Iraqi and Western officials and the Iraqi citizens who rely on the electricity to run their refrigerators and air-conditioners.
 The new electricity minister, Muhsin Shlash, believes that the losing battle with summer is an inevitable outcome of mistakes the Americans made early in the occupation, principally the decision to build numerous small generating stations instead of a few major plants. 
 Some American officials are acknowledging for the first time that their approach may have been flawed but put much of the blame on the decrepit state of the grid and a lack of help by the Iraqi government. Iraqi citizens appear to have slipped into a state of simmering resignation. 
 ''We haven't seen any change in electricity supplies and we have programmed our lives to this situation,'' said Haydar al-Ameen, 35, an engineer whose office is in the Karada district of Baghdad. Power failures are constant, forcing residents to pay for power from jury-rigged neighborhood generators, Mr. Ameen said.
 In this northern city, Ibrahim Muhammad, who runs a tiny take-out sandwich shop, said that the power was sometimes off during his entire prime sales time, from early morning to 11 a.m.
 ''It's not good,'' Mr. Muhammad said. ''It's not comfortable for people coming here -- hot!''
 The constant power failures lead to a wide spectrum of other problems: patients who die in emergency rooms when equipment stops running, office elevators that are all but useless, and what amounts to a national epidemic of insomnia in sweltering Iraqi homes.
 The rapid increase in demand is attributed to runaway sales of air-conditioners, refrigerators and other appliances after the fall of Saddam Hussein, who strictly regulated such sales, as well as some stirrings of economic growth.
 As demand continues to rise, Iraqis remember promises by L. Paul Bremer, the top American administrator in the country until sovereignty passed to an Iraqi government in June 2004, that the power grid would be producing 6,000 megawatts of electricity a day by July of the same year. The grid is now producing around 5,000 megawatts, although it has been creeping up in recent weeks -- a marginal increase that the Americans say is proof that their approach is paying off. 
 Current demand is running at about 8,200 megawatts, according to the American Embassy; before the invasion in 2003, the demand was more than 30 percent lower, the embassy said. Dr. Shlash, an electrical engineer who is receiving praise for some of his early moves even from the people he is criticizing, knows what he is up against in his new job.
 ''I always say I like a challenge,'' he said in an interview, ''but up to a point.''
 A former electricity expert in Iraq who spent two decades in exile in Canada, Dr. Shlash was recruited for his job by Hussein al-Shahristani, the deputy speaker of the Iraqi National Assembly, who happens to be a nuclear physicist.
 Dr. Shlash's earlier career at the Iraqi Electricity Ministry had thrived, Dr. Shahristani said, until the Baathists came to power and cleared the ministry of qualified engineers who would not join the party.
 ''As a result, he was not promoted within the ministry and he left Iraq after a while,'' Dr. Shahristani said.
 A senior official at the American Embassy in Baghdad said of Dr. Shlash, ''He goes back to a time when if you did your work and were technically competent, you moved up the next level.'' The official added, ''He doesn't have any of the concerns about political parties or people's religious backgrounds.''
 Despite that praise from the Americans, Dr. Shlash is uncompromising in assessing the job he faces. Among his biggest challenges, he said, were problems created by mistakes he believed the Americans had made in their $6 billion electricity program.
 He said that large amounts of the money, over half of which has been spent, had been scattered among countless small generators that often must be fueled with tanker trucks -- a difficult task on the dangerous roads of Iraq -- and on fixing outdated units instead of building new power plants that could have made a difference in the long run.
 The Americans also made a crucial mistake, Dr. Shlash said, when they ignored Iraq's network of natural gas pipelines, which might have been used to fuel major power stations with a commodity that is plentiful in Iraq.
 ''In the end, these billions of taxpayer money,'' Dr. Shlash said of the enormous American effort, ''you end up with a small percentage.''
 When told of Dr. Shlash's comments, a senior embassy official said ''he's partially correct,'' but added that the United States had been under pressure since 2003 to show quick results on the grid, and so had not been able to build large power stations ''that would have taken three or four years.''
 A background sheet distributed by the embassy acknowledges that questions have arisen over the expenditure of so much American money on the Iraqi grid. After describing that spending, the document asks, ''So why is the Iraqi government still struggling to provide electricity for the Iraqi population?''
 The explanation of ''this paradox,'' the document says, lies in numerous factors, but two were called crucial: ''The original planning had underestimated the decrepit state of Iraq's infrastructure, and it overestimated the management capabilities of the Iraqi Ministry of Electricity.''
 That shot across the Electricity Ministry's bow refers to earlier administrations, including the one led by Aiham Alsammarae, the previous minister. He returned from Chicago to work in the government of the former prime minister, Ayad Allawi, but Mr. Alsammarae's reign sank beneath accusations of corruption and incompetence. Still, the American criticism is likely to sting, and Dr. Shlash makes it clear that he intends to do business differently from his predecessors. Working with the Ministries of Oil and Water Resources, Dr. Shlash has already turned away from the strategy of relying solely on the Americans, negotiating agreements with Turkey and Syria to increase the amounts of electricity they send to Iraq. He hopes to work out similar agreements with Iran and Kuwait.
 During the same negotiations, he and his colleagues also obtained an agreement to increase, although modestly, the amount of water flowing down the Euphrates River from Turkey and Syria into Iraq. The water will be used to push up the electricity generated by Iraq's hydroelectric dams, among other things.
 Whether those measures can help Iraq's grid catch up with the surging demand for electricity is unclear. The latest figures from the embassy show demand reaching higher levels than at any time since the 2003 invasion, although ministry estimates do not show quite as steep an increase.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ibrahim Muhammad says the power sometimes is off during the entire prime sales time at his sandwich shop, from early morning until 11 a.m. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (62%) Electric Light and Power

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) James Glanz; Muhsin Shlash

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



435 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: China's Shot Heard Around the World 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
RARELY has so little meant so much to so many. China's decision to give its currency a little more wiggle room overshadowed meaty news about some major American corporations struggling to right themselves after years at sea. This in addition to developments in another tussle involving China. It was nearly enough to make a Supreme Court nomination an afterthought.

CHINA BLINKS -- Having resisted its trading partners' pleas, imprecations and threats for years, China casually called a news conference to announce that it would loosen the knot tying its currency, the yuan, to the dollar. Markets quaked and pundits expounded, but there soon emerged a consensus that the move was neither wholly unexpected nor immediately important.
Over time, however, the decision to give up a firm peg to the dollar may have significant consequences indeed. While the yuan initially rose a modest 2 percent against the dollar (China says it has tied its currency's value to those of several other countries, which it didn't identify), the fact that the government allowed it to happen suggests it may permit more movement later.
 A more valuable yuan would make Chinese goods more expensive in the United States and American products cheaper in China; that should narrow the yawning trade gap between the countries. A smaller trade gap would leave China with fewer dollars to invest in United States Treasury bonds; that could depress bond prices and raise American interest rates.
 Some economists have said they expect China to let the yuan rise 7 to 10 percent against the dollar by the end of the year. A few have suggested China will let the currency ''float'' entirely -- that is, let currency markets set the yuan's value based on how well China's economy is performing relative to others.

CHINA PAUSES -- Not everything went China's way. Its biggest appliance maker, Haier, withdrew its $1.28 billion offer for Maytag after Whirlpool raised the prospect of a bidding war by saying it might pay as much as $1.36 billion. Maytag, though, rebuffed Whirlpool and continued to support a $1.13 billion bid from Ripplewood Holdings, a private equity firm. People close to Haier added that a look at Maytag's confidential records convinced the company that a battle was not warranted.
 A few days later, China suffered another blow when Chevron raised its offer for Unocal, and Unocal's board quickly accepted the sweetened bid even though it was still not as much as what the Chinese National Offshore Oil Company said it would pay. 
 The Chinese oil company, known by its acronym, Cnooc, is still in the race for Unocal, but American officials have criticized its bid on national security grounds while Chevron has hammered on its contention that Washington is more likely to approve its cash-and-stock offer than Cnooc's higher all-cash bid.
 Cnooc must find a way to re-energize its bid, perhaps by raising it, before Aug. 10, when Unocal's shareholders will be asked to approve or reject Chevron's offer.

H.-P. HEAVE HO -- First Carly. Now 14,500 others.
 When Hewlett-Packard fired its chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, a few months ago, it was assumed that her successor would have to let many more people to reverse the company's struggling fortunes. Mark V. Hurd took over as chief executive in April, and he did indeed say that his turnaround plan would begin with the layoffs of almost 10 percent of Hewlett's 151,000 employees.
 The cuts will be spread around the world -- about 60 percent of the company's workers live outside the United States -- and will take place over 15 months. But they will still be painful because Mr. Hurd said most of the job losses will be ''involuntary.'' Rather than rely on voluntary buyouts or retirements, the company will dismiss thousands.
 Shedding so many workers, along with terminating its pension plan for Americans, will cost $1.1 billion, the company said, but would eventually save $1.9 billion a year.
 Hewlett's decision to prune its work force came within days of job cuts at Kodak (10,000 positions) and Kimberly-Clark (6,000). Job cuts this month are on a pace to exceed the 110,996 lost in June, the highest in 17 months, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the global outplacement firm.

SELL MORE, MAKE LESS -- Offering everyone the deep discounts once reserved for employees certainly helped American car companies clear inventory off their lots. General Motors and Ford said sales soared in June, but both also posted big losses on making cars.
 G.M.'s North American automotive operations lost $1.2 billion in the quarter that ended in June; after figuring in an $816 million profit from its financial services unit, the company said its overall loss was only $286 million.
 Ford, meanwhile, reported a $907 million pretax loss in its North American automotive operations. Over all, it made $946 million in the quarter, helped by a $1.3 billion pretax profit from its financing unit and tax refunds that added $550 million to its bottom line.
 G.M. is likely to keep the pressure on competitors by extending its sales promotions through the summer, analysts said, while it also pushes its labor unions to agree to shoulder more of the company's health care costs.

A SUPREME ALLY -- When President Bush put forth John G. Roberts of the Federal Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for an opening on the Supreme Court, it was the nominee's experience at the bar, not behind the bench, that impressed business leaders. Before being named to the appeals court two years ago, Judge Roberts had been a lawyer at Hogan & Hartson for a decade, representing blue-chip clients like Chrysler.
 Business leaders for years have complained that Supreme Court justices lack real-world experience on some of the business issues they decide.
 Judge Roberts may yet face a prolonged confirmation process. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip and a member of the Judiciary Committee, suggested as much when he called Judge Roberts a ''controversial nominee'' whose nomination ''guaranteed a more controversial confirmation process.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The yuan initially rose 2 percent against the dollar, but some economists say China will let it rise 7 to 10 percent over time. (Photo by Greg Baker/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); LAYOFFS (64%); DIVESTITURES (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); APPROVALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Home Appliances; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Automobiles ; Sales

COMPANY: RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (52%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Haier Group; Maytag Corp; Whirlpool Corp; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



436 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: With Deal Ratified, N.H.L. Becomes A Changed League

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
With the National Hockey League shut down for the 2004-5 season because of a labor lockout, its dedicated followers pined for the game with the anguish of spurned lovers.
 Mainstream sports fans, however, seemed to pay only curious notice to its absence. The general public simply shrugged about the loss of a business that had grown stagnant in personality and entertainment value while constantly complaining about its monetary woes.
When the league officially reopened yesterday in Manhattan, with the ratification by team owners of a six-year collective bargaining agreement with the N.H.L. Players' Association, the league's commissioner, Gary Bettman, promised a new era of labor harmony and exciting play. 
 That new era will feature a potential new superstar, Sidney Crosby, who is almost certain to be chosen first in next Saturday's draft by the Pittsburgh Penguins. They won a lottery among the 30 teams yesterday.
 ''This era in history, today in particular, will be viewed as a pivotal point in time,'' Bettman said. ''This will probably be a seminal moment.''
 Referring to the bitter battle between owners and athletes over money, Bettman said, ''This was a terrible time for everyone associated with the game,'' but that the lockout was necessary to reduce inflationary pressure.
 ''Well, folks, it's over,'' he said. ''Let's drop the puck on a fresh start. It's time our fans have some fun again. We're going to make it up to you. Please come back.''
 Crosby, a 17-year-old center from Nova Scotia, has been compared to Wayne Gretzky, who elevated the N.H.L.'s profile in the 1980's and 90's; he remains, six years after retiring, hockey's most transcendent personality.
 Crosby will play alongside Mario Lemieux, who is a player for and a part-owner of the Penguins and who, next to Gretzky, was the premier player of his era.
 Crosby said, in English and French, that he was eager to enter a league that would radically change its style from defense to offense to showcase players like him.
 ''It looks really interesting,'' Crosby said in a telephone conference call with reporters gathered in Manhattan for the N.H.L. Board of Governors meeting. ''I'm someone who likes to play an offensive game. It's going to open it up a lot and it should make it a little more entertaining.''
 Craig Patrick, the general manager of the Penguins, said he was not expecting to have the first pick, even though the Penguins, who have had little success in recent seasons, had a better chance than most franchises in the weighted lottery.
 Crosby will be 18 when the season begins, and Lemieux will be 40. They worked out together last summer. The Penguins are trying to build a new arena and the franchise is for sale. ''He's a fantastic fit,'' Patrick said of Crosby. ''My mind just goes round and round and round with the possibilities.''
 The Anaheim Mighty Ducks were second in the draft lottery, and the Carolina Hurricanes third. The Rangers will have the 16th pick next Saturday in Ottawa; the Islanders will pick 15th and the Devils 23rd. 
 According to the new agreement, N.H.L. players will participate in the Winter Olympics in February in Turin, Italy, and in 2010 in Vancouver. During those seasons, the N.H.L. will not hold an All-Star Game.
 Although N.H.L. players participated in the Olympics of 1998 and 2002, Bettman often said in recent months that it would be difficult to send them next time because the league schedule would take priority after such a long absence.
 Players argued in favor of Olympics for reasons of patriotism and exposure for the sport, which has only a minimal television contract in the United States with NBC Universal Sports. Bettman said a new cable deal was a possibility and a priority.
 The owners voted unanimously yesterday to approve the collective bargaining agreement, which will limit salaries to a fluctuating range based on revenue. In the first season, the top team payrolls are tentatively set at $39 million; the minimum will be $21.5 million.
 Although Bettman and others referred to the new agreement as an unprecedented partnership with the players, there was no representation yesterday from the union. Bill Daly, the executive vice president who was promoted to deputy commissioner yesterday, said the union was invited to appear but declined because its leadership was in Toronto to meet with player agents to inform them of details of the new agreement.
 Few players are under contract and many more will have old contracts bought out in the final weeks before training camp. As a result, the agents received a crash course in the dynamics of the deal, which will limit a team's highest-paid player to 20 percent of its payroll's upper limit.
 The only player to appear at the meeting was Brendan Shanahan of the Detroit Red Wings, a member of the new competition committee. He helped explain the rules changes, as did Colin Campbell, the N.H.L.'s director of hockey operations.
 The rules could create a game with a drastically different feel. One of the biggest changes is the elimination of tie games. A regular-season game that is still tied after five minutes of overtime will be decided in a shootout competition involving three players from each team. Another significant change is the elimination of the two-line pass, a wrinkle that will allow longer passes on the attack. 
 One potentially drastic change increases the size of the offensive zones: the distance from the blue lines to the goal line will expand to 64 feet, from 60.
 That, and moving each goal back two feet, will shrink the neutral zone to 50 feet, from 54. Icing rules remain the same, despite debate about the risk of injury to players racing to touch a puck at the far end of the ice.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sidney Crosby is expected to be the top selection in the N.H.L. entry draft next Saturday. Pittsburgh has the No. 1 pick. (Photo by David Duprey/Associated Press)
Labor harmony and exciting play were the themes for, from left, Brendan Shanahan of the Red Wings
Colin Campbell, director of operations for the N.H.L.
and Commissioner Gary Bettman. The league's logo had a new look, too. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 Sidney Crosby, 17, now has an N.H.L. draft to look forward to. (Photo by Paul Darrow/Reuters)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); LOCKOUTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (55%) Hockey, Ice; Lockouts; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DETROIT RED WINGS (59%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (56%)

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



437 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Gets Endorsements From Harlem and Brooklyn Pastors

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer, a Democratic candidate for mayor, received endorsements yesterday from two ministers of largely black congregations, a sign that his campaign was recovering from his controversial remarks that the police shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, was not a crime.
 The ministers, the Rev. Adolph Roberts Jr., of Mount Calvary Baptist Church in Harlem and the Rev. Gary V. Simpson, of Concord Baptist Church in Brooklyn, said yesterday that they were supporting Mr. Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, because of his focus on civic and community issues like education and creating economic opportunities for the disadvantaged. 
''Whether our members have been serving the elderly, reaching out to the less fortunate or encouraging better financial education as a part of community growth, Freddy Ferrer has fought alongside us,'' said Mr. Simpson, whose congregation numbers almost 4,000, he added.
 Later, Mr. Ferrer, speaking to reporters after receiving the endorsements, took a dig at one of his Democratic rivals, Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker.
 Asked if he could have put more money into the budget to cover raises for police officers if he were speaker, Mr. Ferrer answered that he would never have been speaker because he would never have run for the office. Asked why not, he replied, ''Because I want to be mayor.'' Thus far, no sitting leader of the modern City Council has won the mayoralty.
 Mr. Miller's campaign spokesman, Reggie Johnson, shot back, ''Sadly, instead of standing with Gifford over the past four years as he has fought on behalf of civil employees, Mr. Ferrer has chosen the easier path of the misguided election-year attack.''
 For his part, Mr. Miller reserved his attention for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, saying that although the new random bag searches on the subway were necessary to protect against terror attacks, they were insufficient.
 ''The bottom line,'' he said in a statement released by his campaign, ''is this is a reactive measure and should not be confused with a proactive, comprehensive approach to protecting straphangers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gifford Miller, left, greeted Fernando Ferrer earlier this month when they took part with other Democratic candidates in a mayoral forum. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); BUDGETS (75%); MISCONDUCT (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%) Blacks; Endorsements; Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Election Issues 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Fernando Ferrer; Gifford (Council Speaker) Miller; Diane Cardwell; Adolph Jr (Rev) Roberts; Gary V (Rev) Simpson; Amadou (1975-99) Diallo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



438 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; SECURITY IN NEW YORK: STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: What's in a Bag Check? Deterrence, and Comfort

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER; Kareem Fahim contributed reporting for this article

 BODY:
While the random checks of subway riders' bags might never actually turn up a terrorist's bomb, they are intended as a deterrent to potential bombers. What might be even more important, though, according to security experts and police officials, is their usefulness in reassuring a nervous public.
 ''There are three reasons for doing this,'' said Mark Juergensmeyer, a security expert at the University of California, Santa Barbara. ''First, that you actually hope to discover a bomb. Second, to give the impression to a bomber that it will be difficult to succeed. And third, to give the appearance or illusion of security to make the public happy.'' 
''Probably the third is the most important,'' added Professor Juergensmeyer, the director of the university's global and international studies program. ''Don't discount the importance of that.''
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly acknowledged as much in an interview yesterday, saying deterrence was not the only intention of the program.
 ''I see it also as giving some comfort to the riding public,'' he said. ''We actually had people who came over and volunteered to have their bags checked -- kind of supporting the process.''
 Because spreading fear is a principal goal of terrorists, it is vital to show the public that something is being done, experts said.
 ''Security serves many purposes,'' said Brian M. Jenkins, a terrorism expert at the RAND Corporation. ''Reassuring the public is a legitimate objective. You might say, dismissively, it's just to make people feel better. But we shouldn't dismiss it. It is an important component.'' 
 To that extent, he said, the search effort is useful, even though the probability it will ever catch a terrorist is low.
 Vincent Cannistraro, the former head of counterterrorism for the Central Intelligence Agency, said it was important to ''keep the confidence in the system'' in a densely populated city heavily dependent on mass transit.
 ''If you scare the public,'' he said, ''it can be quite disastrous in a huge urban environment. Anything that's done that has a reassuring side is to the good.''
 But the visible deployment of uniformed police officers at subway stops could also scare off potential terrorists, the experts said, if the searches were conducted in a truly random and unpredictable way that could throw off carefully planned operations.
 ''Anything we can do to introduce uncertainty will make it harder for the adversary to figure it out,'' Mr. Jenkins said.
 Mr. Juergensmeyer recalled a case in Pakistan where a group had planned to bomb the American Embassy but decided it was too well guarded and attacked a bank instead. 
 But Mr. Cannistraro said the officers had to be visible to be effective.
 ''I think random checks are probably useful in this kind of environment,'' he said. ''As a practical deterrent, it will be a help. New York has depended heavily on undercover police in the subways. It would be a better deterrent if they had uniforms -- it's a visible symbol of deterrence.''
 But not everyone was convinced. 
 ''This stupid random check,'' said Harvey W. Kushner, a security expert at Long Island University. ''This is just more cosmetics to make the people feel better, that they're protected.''
 He contended the plan was crippled by ''political correctness'' in not focusing on potential categories of likely terrorists and compared it to parking an empty police car day after day along a highway median to deter speeders.
 ''This is going to throw a monkey wrench into a terrorist's plans?'' he asked sarcastically. ''If a guy has 15 pounds of high explosives in a backpack and he is turned away at the subway, he's just going to go across the street to a CVS and blow himself up.''
 Indeed, experts conceded, there is no way to guarantee protection for the city's sprawling subway system.
 ''It would be impossible to secure a mass transit system,'' said Weldon Kennedy, who was in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's case in the Oklahoma City bombing. Citing the expense, complications and delays that would result, he said, ''It would basically shut it down.''
 Mr. Cannistraro, the former C.I.A. official, agreed.
 ''There aren't a lot of quick fixes,'' he said. ''Look, there is no guarantee. There is no hundred percent security screen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); POPULATION DENSITY (67%); CITIES (61%) Terrorism; Search and Seizure; Bombs and Explosives; Public Opinion; Security and Warning Systems

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: John Kifner

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



439 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: China Braces for Speculation in the Yuan

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and KEITH BRADSHER; David Barboza reported from Shanghai for this article and Keith Bradsher from Washington.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 22 

 BODY:
A day after China moved to revalue its currency, the country is bracing to see whether the shift will set off a huge influx of speculative capital.
 The move Thursday by the central bank to revalue the yuan, and drop its peg to the dollar, was praised by economists here as an important step for China as it moves toward a more market-oriented economy.
But these same experts say China now faces a difficult balancing act as it tries to control the amount of speculative capital, or ''hot money,'' that flows in and out of the country. One measure of the giant inflows is the nation's foreign exchange reserves, which now total more than $711 billion, second only to Japan. 
 By raising the value of the yuan by just 2 percent, with the tantalizing possibility of further increases to follow, China may have made even more attractive what is already one of the world's most popular places to invest. 
 The Chinese economy has boomed in the last few years with money pouring in at a pace of nearly $20 billion a month, and the delicate task for Beijing officials now lies in making sure that this incoming tide neither increases nor decreases in large amounts.
 ''This is the most important thing for China right now,'' said Andy Xie, an economist at Morgan Stanley. ''China has to be really careful not to encourage hot money to come in and not to push it out.''
 Tens of billions of dollars worth of speculative money is already flooding into China. If that torrent expands significantly, it could feed inflation in an already feverish economy. But if China acts too decisively to choke off inflows, useful investments could also be derailed and growth could suffer.
 The currency move was seen by analysts largely as an effort by China to appease its biggest trading partners, many of whom had complained for two years that a weak currency gave China an unfair advantage in global commerce. 
 But with just a 2 percent increase in the value of the yuan against the dollar, some analysts said China was signaling that a larger yuan appreciation was in store and thereby inadvertently encouraging speculators to rush into the country.
 While the Bush administration welcomed this first step toward currency reform, the huge speculative capital inflows that are now being forecast here could ignite inflationary pressure and further complicate the Chinese government's effort to manage the world's fastest-growing major economy, which expanded by a stronger-than-expected 9.5 percent in the second quarter of this year.
 ''As long as China's economy continues to grow, there will inevitably be hot money betting on the value of the currency increasing,'' Zhang Yuncheng, a researcher at the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations, said.
 Some economists say the risks of speculative capital flooding into the country and overheating the economy are overstated, that the speculative inflows have begun to slow, and that the government has found new ways to prevent money from entering the country.
 In the last few months, China adopted measures to assert greater control over inflows. Economists now say those were clearly an attempt to prepare for Thursday's shift in currency policy. One of the most important controls has been to limit further the ability of banks to borrow money overseas, bring it home and convert it into yuan to issue loans in China.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange has also stepped up monitoring of foreign investments in China. Its officials are checking that investors actually build factories and other government-approved operations, instead of using money brought into the country to acquire property, invest in the stock market or simply sit in bank accounts awaiting a currency move, experts say.
 There are many ways to evade the capital controls. The simplest is to sneak large sums of cash across the border; to make it harder to change dollars into yuan, clerks at Chinese hotels now demand to see a passport and insist that guests fill out a form when converting currency.
 A more complicated approach is for a company to ship goods to its overseas subsidiary and overbill the subsidiary. Part of the subsidiary's payment is used to pay for the actual goods and the rest is invested, often in real estate.
 ''There are leakages,'' said Frank Gong, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. ''Each year about $50 billion to $60 billion in hot money comes in. But that only accounts for 8 percent of fixed-asset investments. That's a small portion. So the impact on the economy will be small.''
 But other economists say the Chinese government statistics suggest that over the last few years there have been huge inflows of capital that cannot be accounted for in the normal foreign exchange channels. 
 ''There was a massive increase in what they call errors and omissions,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, referring to national statistics on capital flows. ''This was huge last year, about $20 billion. Historically, that number has been negative. It's been money flowing out.''
 After three years of capital flight, $7.8 billion flowed into China during 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2003. Then in 2004, that figure jumped to $27 billion. Now economists are warning that huge flows of money into the country could create inflationary pressure.
 Thus far, however, inflation in China has been under control.
 ''When you have $1 trillion in trade transactions, it's very hard to control that money,'' Mr. Lardy said. ''They've dodged the bullet so far on inflation. But if they have more inflows it may be difficult to keep this up.'' 
 Some of the inflows -- more than $300 billion, by some projections -- have come from overseas during the last few years and piled up here in China on the expectation that a significant currency revaluation would bring easy profits when converted back into dollars. 
 Many investors and speculators had been betting on a 10 percent to 20 percent appreciation in the yuan this year. 
 Now, some economists say the authorities might let the yuan appreciate further so that within 12 months, the currency could be worth as much as 10 percent more than it was at the start of 2005. A recent World Bank study projected that the yuan would be valued around 5.8 to the dollar by 2010, and 2.8 to the dollar by 2020.
 Mr. Xie at Morgan Stanley says that if too much of that money comes at once, China's economy will roar. But if the speculators sense that the currency will not further appreciate, a huge amount of capital could flee the country and deflate asset prices, creating a situation similar to the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
 ''It's really a fine balance China has to pull off,'' he said. ''This is what this game is about for China -- stability.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: David Barboza; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (58%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



440 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Lock And Load

BYLINE: By SARAH VOWELL. 
Maureen Dowd is on book leave.; Sarah Vowell, a contributor to public radio's ''This American Life,'' is the author, most recently, of ''Assassination Vacation.''; E-mail: vowell@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I have a name for it: 1775 disease. The United States of America wasn't born of the pretty words from Jefferson's pen in the declaration signed on July 4, 1776. It was born of anonymous gunfire at Lexington on April 19, 1775. And ever since, we have carried our violent nativity within us like a virus, a virus that lies dormant from time to time only to break out again and again. 
 We celebrate the Minutemen of 1775. And I'm not saying we shouldn't. I do love a good ''Listen, my children, and you shall hear'' legend. In fact, my mushy nationalistic heart skipped a beat when an old Minuteman statue, caked in alien goop, made a cameo in Steven Spielberg's ''War of the Worlds.'' 
 All I'm saying is that there is an inherent pitfall in revering the volunteer militiamen of Lexington and Concord, our beloved raggedy, gun-toting amateurs who defied the powers-that-were. As when today's raggedy, gun-toting amateurs defy the powers-that-be in their honor and someone gets hurt. Timothy McVeigh, for example. Ten years ago, he bombed the federal building in Oklahoma City -- on April 19. 
 And now -- someone alert the C.D.C. -- 1775 disease is breaking out in at least 18 states, thanks to the Minuteman Project. What started back in April as a nutty experiment involving armed citizen volunteers patrolling the Arizona-Mexico border to thwart illegal immigration is spreading to non-border states as well. This week Tennessee got its own Minutemen. 
 No serious person thinks random guys with guns stalking Niagara Falls or the Rio Grande are going to make the country safer. On the contrary, in addition to all of our other national security worries, Americans now have to fret for the safety of these clowns, who have been condemned by President Bush as ''vigilantes.'' Because, odds are, the only people they'll end up shooting will be one another. 
 And I say that not only as a namby-pamby liberal writing for the most uppity newspaper in the world, but also as the daughter of a gunsmith, a man who was so persnickety about the very real danger of firearms' tendency to just go off that he practically made my sister and me don hunter orange just to play with squirt guns. 
 It's worth remembering that no one knows who fired that ''shot heard round the world'' at Lexington. What probably happened was that one man got nervous and accidentally pulled the trigger on his musket. (Longfellow meant to put that at the end of ''Paul Revere's Ride,'' but he couldn't find a decent rhyme for ''uh-oh.'')
 The wonderful spirit of the old Minutemen -- their amateurish gumption, their do-it-yourself defiance -- can occasionally be ominous when inspiring latter-day gunmen, but glorious with regard to art. The police have way too many half-cocked rule-breakers to deal with; pop music, though, can never have enough. 
 ''We Jam Econo,'' Tim Irwin's lovable documentary about the lovable 80's punk band called the Minutemen is making the rounds of film festivals and revival houses this summer. It's nice to revisit the hullabaloo of their songs. And watching the bassist, Mike Watt, driving his van around his California hometown, San Pedro, and pointing at Minutemen landmarks is like listening to a fascinating Concord park ranger lead a tour across North Bridge. ''We were minute men,'' Watt says. That's my-NOOT men -- a little homemade band, not the slick Redcoats of arena rock. 
 Watt and the guitarist, D.Boon, are two men Sam Adams could have had a beer with. Their idealism, their humor and decency, is spellbinding. Their friend Nels Cline points out that Boon used so much treble in his guitar as ''a political decision'' -- to distinguish his sound from Watt's bass, like two ''sovereign states.'' Egalitarian timbre! 
 Then there's the story of their album ''Double Nickels on the Dime,'' a jab at Sammy Hagar's ''I Can't Drive 55.'' Watt recalls, ''We said, 'Well, we'll drive 55 and be crazy with the music instead of crazy with the cars.'''
 The best part of the film, and the most heartbreaking, is when Watt walks around the park where he met Boon, a childhood friend who died in a car accident in 1985. ''I was quite smitten with him,'' Watt remembers. ''He was playing army and he fell out of a tree on me.''
 As he stares at the very tree, it occurs to me that playing army when you're 13 is fine. Grown men playing army on the Mexican border? No, thanks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); IMMIGRATION (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); REFUGEES (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); SMALL ARMS MFG (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Volunteers; Illegal Aliens; Vigilantes

ORGANIZATION: Minuteman Project

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Sarah Vowell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%) Arizona; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



441 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Millennium Project

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Tone Deaf on Africa,'' by William Easterly (Op-Ed, July 3):
 The United Nations Millennium Project recently presented feasible and specific steps for reaching the Millennium Development Goals for poverty reduction by 2015.
 Foremost among these is the need for the poorest countries, and the poorest communities in those countries, to be empowered to craft and carry out their own local, specific and monitored strategies for achieving the goals. 
 This is quite the opposite from Mr. Easterly's depiction of New York-based ''big plans'' unconnected to Africans who would benefit. 
 Moreover, the Millennium Project has identified the feasibility of known, ground-level approaches to addressing practical problems like low food production, lack of access to water and lack of education. 
 Mr. Easterly calls for piecemeal solutions, which are already the norm. Yet if poor countries were supported to make practical investments at a proper scale and in an integrated manner, we could see enormous and rapid benefits.

John W. McArthur
Manager, United Nations
Millennium Project
New York, July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: John W Mcarthur; William Easterly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



442 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Federal Loan Board Approves Plan for 2 Airlines to Merge 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
The proposed merger between US Airways and America West Airlines yesterday won the support of the federal loan board that granted the companies more than $1 billion in aid after the September 2001 attacks.
 The approval by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board was a significant milestone on the path to completing the merger. The board endorsed the deal yesterday on a unanimous vote, after the airlines reached agreement with the board on revised terms of their guaranteed loans.
America West and US Airways announced plans in the spring for a merger that would create the nation's fifth-largest carrier in terms of passenger revenues, combining US Airways' operations east of the Mississippi and America West's routes west of the Mississippi. The deal, which includes $535 million in outside investments, was to be completed when US Airways emerges from bankruptcy, which it plans to do this fall. 
 The two would operate under the US Airways name, but the airline would be based at America West's headquarters in Phoenix and be led by W. Douglas Parker, America West's chief executive.
 Yesterday, Mr. Parker said the two carriers were ''grateful'' for the board's approval. The action ''brings us one step closer to building a stable future for our airlines,'' Mr. Parker said in the statement.
 US Airways' chief executive, Bruce R. Lakefield, added that the agreement would ''preserve jobs while protecting the federal government's interests.'' Mr. Lakefield is set to become vice chairman of the new airline after the merger.
 The deal has already been approved by the Justice Department, which said it did not violate antitrust laws. The Justice Department had rejected a bid by US Airways to merge with United Airlines in 2001 because it felt such a deal would be anticompetitive. Consent had been expected from the loan board, which was created after the terrorist attacks in Washington and New York to oversee $10 billion in guaranteed loans authorized by Congress. 
 The board includes representatives from the Federal Reserve, Transportation Department and the Treasury Department.
 The board's executive director, Mark R. Dayton, said the board thought the airlines would be stronger together than on their own. ''You look at the outcome that will generate the highest chance of repayment, and this clearly is it,'' Mr. Dayton said in an interview yesterday.
 The revised agreement calls for the airlines to repay their loans in full, with a slightly higher interest rate for US Airways' $708 million balance than when its loan guarantees were originally approved in 2003.
 The board, which is getting an 11.2 percent stake in the new carrier, gave the airlines until 2010 to pay off the balance owed by US Airways, while the $300 million balance owed by America West is due in 2008. 
 The board has displayed leniency to both airlines since granting their applications for loan guarantees. It renegotiated terms of its 2002 award to America West, originally $380 million, receiving warrants on stock in the company that now could become valuable if the merger is successful.
 US Airways, which technically defaulted on its original $900 million loan package when it sought bankruptcy protection last year, its second bankruptcy in two years, was allowed by the board to operate on cash it pledged as collateral to secure its loans.
 Once the airlines merge, the cash collateral will also be used to secure the America West portion of the loan guarantees, which had been unsecured.
 Other airlines, namely Frontier and Aloha, have repaid their loan balances in full, and the board, in theory, could have required US Airways to do so upon emerging from bankruptcy. 
 Mr. Dayton said, however, that ''you're not going to have a situation where they come out of bankruptcy and get thrown back in because they bear such onerous terms that the airline can't meet them.''
 Assuming the merger is successful, yesterday's vote is likely to be the last major action taken by the loan board, which is best known for its 2004 rejection of loan guarantees for United Airlines. 
 United hoped to use the loans to pave its way out of bankruptcy protection, under which it has operated since 2002. But the board rejected the application on a 3-to-0 vote, saying it thought that United could find financing elsewhere.
 The vote was also the last for Edward M. Gramlich, a Federal Reserve governor who has led the board since its creation. Mr. Gramlich steps down from the Fed and from the board next month. His replacement has not been announced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); MERGERS (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); DIVESTITURES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (96%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (84%) US Airways; America West Airlines; Air Transportation Stabilization Board

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (92%) W Douglas Parker; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



443 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Approves Bill To Upgrade Student Loans

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22 

 BODY:
The House education committee approved changes in the Higher Education Act on Friday that Republicans said would reduce the cost of loans, making it easier for low-income students to attend college, but that Democrats said fell far short of what students needed to meet rising college costs. 
 The House Committee on Education and the Workforce passed the bill on a party-line vote, with 27 Republicans in favor and 20 Democrats against, sending it to the floor, where a vote is not expected before September. The Senate plans to introduce a similar bill in the fall. The legislation would reauthorize the Higher Education Act, which governs federal student aid and other programs. 
 ''We're providing meaningful reforms that will expand college access, prioritize the needs of students and protect American taxpayers,'' said Representative John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the panel, which worked more than two years on the measure.
 Education Secretary Margaret Spellings echoed Mr. Boehner, saying: ''If approved by the full House, the law would make it easier for students to attend college, families to afford college and teachers to pay back college loans. By meeting deficit reduction targets, it also keeps the president's promise to spend the taxpayer's money wisely.'' 
 But Representative George Miller of California, the committee's ranking Democrat, attacked the outcome. He said Republicans passed a bill that was intended to wring $12 billion in savings to help lower the deficit. ''Everything else the bill did,'' he said, ''is tinkering around the edges.''
 The savings for the government would come from students having to pay higher interest rates to consolidate loans as well from the closing of a loophole that lets some lenders earn a government-guaranteed interest rate of 9.5 percent on certain student loans.
 Under the plan, students consolidating several loans into one can choose between a fixed rate or a variable rate. Consolidation is a popular option for students wanting to lock in a low interest rate. But under the bill, students would have to pay more for a fixed rate, which Democrats said would cost students thousands of dollars in extra interest.
 Republicans also rejected an effort by Democrats to lower the maximum interest rate to 6.8 percent, keeping it at 8.25 percent, a level that benefits lending institutions.
 Also under the bill, the ceiling on the amount of money a student could borrow, which is now set at $2,625 for their first year and $3,500 for the second, would be raised to $3,500 the first year and $4,500 the second. It would keep the current level, $5,500, for each of two subsequent years.
 Loan origination fees, which can now be as high as 4 percent, would be reduced to 3 percent next year and phased down to 1 percent by 2010.
 Pell grants, which now reach an annual maximum of $4,050, would increase by $50 a year. A new proposal would make Pell grants available to students who attend classes at night, on weekends or during the summer; the grants are now restricted to students attending fall or spring semesters. The grants would also be made available for the first time to students at two-year colleges. 
 Democrats said that much more money could have been made available to students. For example, a proposal they made to raise Pell grants by $100 a year was defeated.
 Democrats also cited rejection of a bipartisan proposal by Mr. Miller and Representative Thomas E. Petri, Republican of Wisconsin, that encouraged students to take out loans directly from the government rather than from banks, shifting the savings into more money for Pell grants.
 Democrats said that would have generated billions of dollars in savings through lower interest rates, but Republicans said hidden costs might have eaten up the savings.
 The bill also included several initiatives to provide incentives for teachers of math, science and special education in low-income school districts. A current program forgives such teachers up to $5,000 of their student loans; the new bill increases that amount to $17,500.
 The bill also encourages graduate students to pursue teaching careers in those same subjects by offering them fellowships. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2005; July 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Saturday about the House education committee's approval of changes in the Higher Education Act referred incorrectly to a proposal to expand eligibility for federal Pell grants. Students at both two-year and four-year colleges would be allowed to get grants for year-round education, not just for fall and spring semesters, as is the current practice. This would not be the first time grants were available to students at two-year colleges; they have been eligible for more than 30 years. 1/3 1/3 
An article last Saturday about the House education committee's approval of changes in the Higher Education Act referred incorrectly to a proposal to expand eligibility for federal Pell grants. Students at both two-year and four-year colleges would be allowed to get grants for year-round education, not just for fall and spring semesters, as is the current practice. This would not be the first time grants were available to students at two-year colleges; they have been eligible for more than 30 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); APPROVALS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Student Loans; Tuition

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (73%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (58%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%) Michael Janofsky

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



444 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Blasts at Resort in Egypt Kill at Least 49 People
At least 49 people were killed in a series of powerful explosions in the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheik, according to Egyptian state television and wire service reports. More than 200 people were wounded in the blasts which, were apparantly caused by car bombs. A1

Man Shot and Killed in Subway
Under a shoot-to-kill order after terrorist attacks that have traumatized Britain, plainclothes police officers fatally shot a suspect on a subway train as horrified passengers looked on. The police shot the man five times at point-blank range, witnesses said. A1

Constitutional Hurdles Remain
A senior Western diplomat in Baghdad said that, with only about three weeks left before the deadline for the draft of a new constitution, some of the most contentious issues still remain to be resolved. A5

The Pentagon announced that Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, who has been in charge of training Iraqi security forces, has completed his tour of duty and will be replaced by Maj. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who was also nominated for promotion to lieutenant general. A5

U.N. Criticizes Zimbabwe
The United Nations condemned the destruction of urban slums and shantytowns in Zimbabwe by the government of President Robert G. Mugabe as a ''disastrous venture.'' A5

Hunt for a Philippine Terrorist
American and Philippine military forces have launched an operation to capture the leader of Abu Sayyaf, a small terrorist group that has kidnapped scores of people and beheaded several, United States and Philippine military officials said. A4

Rice Visits Israel and Beirut
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and then traveled to Beirut for an unannounced meeting with the leaders of Lebanon. A3

NATIONAL A8-11, 14

An Unrelenting Heat WaveTakes a Toll on the West
A relentless and lethal blanket of heat has settled on much of the Western United States, forcing the cancellation of dozens of airline flights, threatening power outages, stoking wildfires and leaving 20 dead in Phoenix alone in the last week. A1

Setback for Stem Cell Bill
A measure to expand federal financing for human embryonic stem cell research, passed by the House and once considered a shoo-in for adoption by the Senate, is tangled up in a procedural dispute that will probably delay a vote until fall, its chief Republican backer said. A8

Democrats' Strategy on Court
As the Supreme Court nominee John G. Roberts courted senators, Democrats began laying the groundwork to challenge him in his confirmation hearings, in part by seeking to shift the focus away from volatile issues like abortion to the broader subjects of personal privacy and government power. A9

Prison Abuse Photos Held
Lawyers for the Defense Department are refusing to cooperate with a federal judge's order to release secret photographs and videotapes related to the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal. A11

Bush Pleads for Security Plan
With his Social Security legislation stymied in Congress, President Bush had a rally in Atlanta to advance what he called his ''senior security package.'' A14

EDUCATION

Paying for Higher Education
The House education committee approved changes in the Higher Education Act that Republicans said would reduce the cost of loans, making it easier for low-income students to attend college. A8

Religion Journal A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Transit System Searches Expanded in New York
Reacting to the recent London transit bombings, New York and New Jersey transit authorities have begun enacting new security measures, including widespread searches of bags and packages in New York City subways, the two AirTrain lines at Kennedy and Newark Liberty International Airports, and on the PATH commuter railroad. A1

Conviction to be Overturned
In a dramatic turnaround that is almost certain to free a Bronx man who has been in prison for more than 13 years, the Manhattan District Attorney's office announced that it was asking a judge to throw out the man's conviction for the murder of a bouncer outside the Palladium nightclub in 1990. B1

Rival Bids in Brooklyn
A rival bidder to Bruce Ratner, the developer, has made a $150 million cash offer for development rights at the Atlantic railyard in downtown Brooklyn, where he proposes to build a $3.5 billion tower complex that includes a basketball arena. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

New Era for N.H.L.
After losing the entire 2004-05 season because of a labor lockout, the National Hockey League officially re-opened with the ratification by team owners of a new six-year collective bargaining agreement with the N.H.L. Players Association. D1

ARTS B7-19

OBITUARIES B20

Blue Barron
One of the last surviving leaders of the sweet bands that rivaled the popularity of the hot bands of the swing era, he was 91. B20

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Sony and New York May Settle
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, is close to a settlement with Sony BMG Music Entertainment to resolve accusations that it used improper tactics to influence radio programmers to play its songs, people involved in the discussions said. C1

Hewlett Chief Begins Shifts
Mark V. Hurd, Hewlett's new chief executive, announced his first moves this week, including laying off nearly 10 percent of the company's employees, but some on Wall Street believe more drastic measures are needed. C1

China, U.S. and the Dollar
The dollar may be on a healthier course for now, but that does not silence the prophets of doom who fear a collapse of the currency or some other economic crisis as Americans continue to buy far more abroad than they sell. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Houses divided on warming; midsummer Mideast madness; scary runways, scary skies; getting early later.

Columns: Sarah Vowell, John Tierney.

Bridge B18
Crossword B18
TV Listings B19
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); RESORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); JUDGES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); AIRLINES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (65%); POWER FAILURES (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); ABORTION (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); JOHN ROBERTS (53%); DAVID PETRAEUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) RED SEA (92%); WEST USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) EGYPT (95%); PHILIPPINES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); LEBANON (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



445 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: What We Saw in London

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Hadley and Frances Fragos Townsend. 
Stephen J. Hadley is the national security adviser. Frances Fragos Townsend is the homeland security adviser.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE British people suffered another attack this week, one that fortunately caused far less damage than the horrible events of July 7. But as they did earlier this month, the people of London responded bravely. Their courage over these harrowing few weeks reminds us that those who love freedom have prevailed against such evil before and can do so again. 
 The London attacks vividly demonstrated the challenge we face. As President Bush has said: ''The terrorists need to be right only once. Free nations need to be right 100 percent of the time.'' We need all citizens, everyone who loves freedom, to join in the fight. And in this fight, the people the terrorists most want to dominate -- the people of Islam -- will be our most important allies. 
Muslims are the prize the terrorists hope to claim. They are also the victims of the terrorists, for suicide attacks have likely killed and wounded more Muslims than people of any other faith. It is their religion that the terrorists invoke to justify these evil acts, and so Muslims themselves are in the best position to expose the terrorists' lies. They are increasingly doing exactly that, as the 500 Muslim leaders who signed a declaration condemning the July 7 bombings bravely showed. 
 The London attacks served to underscore the reality that we face an enemy determined to destroy our way of life and substitute for it a fanatical vision of dictatorial and theocratic rule. At its root, the struggle is an ideological contest, a war of ideas that engages all of us, public servant and private citizen, regardless of nationality. 
 We have waged such wars before, and we know how to win them. Of course, every ideological war is different, and each presents new challenges. Yet our efforts since the attacks of 9/11 have been guided by three important lessons learned when free peoples twice defeated totalitarianism in the last century. 
 First and most important, we must have a clear understanding of the ideology espoused by the enemy. The terrorists we face today aim to remake the Middle East in their own grim image -- one that, as President Bush has said, ''hates freedom, rejects tolerance and despises all dissent.'' 
 This vision is eerily reminiscent of earlier totalitarian systems, where a radical few subjugated the helpless many. Then as now, terror is the principal tool of the totalitarian. Today's terrorists seek through barbaric violence to topple governments, export terrorism and force free nations to stand down. The terrorists believe democracies are weak, and that those who champion freedom will retreat in the face of relentless attacks -- that people, in Osama bin Laden's words, ''will like the strong horse.'' 
 History has taught us that the best antidote to totalitarianism is forceful resolve coupled with actions that advance human freedom. Our logic is straightforward. Terrorists exploit conditions of despair and feelings of resentment where freedom is denied. When we support the vision and reality of a freer and hopeful future, we undercut the ideological underpinning for the terrorists and embolden those opposed to their grim vision. 
 This constructive vision was on display in Scotland at the Group of 8 summit meeting when the terrorists struck London for the first time. The leaders at that meeting hammered out plans to reverse generations of lost opportunities in Africa by marrying aid to reform. The leaders discussed multilateral efforts to provide greater assistance to the brave people of the new Iraq. They reviewed steps to help establish a future democratic Palestinian state living in peace with Israel. By contrast, the terrorists offered only death and destruction.
 The second important lesson flows directly from the first. An ideological contest can be a long and difficult one. Even bankrupt ideas have attracted followers for a time. And in making our case, we must overcome America's mixed record on supporting freedom in the Middle East. For too long we accepted a false bargain that promised stability if we looked the other way when democracy was denied. 
 But we can take heart for the long run because we know that we, and not the terrorists, are on the right side of history: people everywhere prefer freedom to slavery and will embrace it whenever they can, because freedom is the wish of every human being. 
 The third lesson is that the struggle against terrorism requires force of arms, but will not be won through force of arms alone. The victory in World War II was not complete until the Marshall Plan secured Germany's democratic political future. In the fight against Communism, our armed forces deterred the enemy. But it was the superior appeal of human freedom -- not bombs and bullets -- that ultimately led to democracy's triumph. After all, the cold war's most powerful voices proved to be those who lived under the Communist system and could expose its lies.
 In a similar way, military action is only one piece of the war on terrorism. The terrorist hard-core is beyond appeal and must be hunted, captured or killed. The sanctuary that terrorists rely on to turn resentment into a weapon -- the sanctuary provided by sympathetic governments willing to look the other way when terrorist training camps are set up within their borders -- can be denied through military action.
 AT the same time, however, we must bring all of the tools of statecraft, economic influence and private enterprise to bear in this war. Freedom-loving people around the world must reach out through every means -- communications, trade, education -- to support the courageous Muslims who are speaking the truth about their proud religion and history, and seizing it back from those who would hijack it for evil ends.
 For several years now, it's been clear that two opposing ideas, one of hope and one of despair, are competing for the world's embrace. Those who believe in the worth of every human life know how to judge between the two. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%) Terrorism; Transit Systems; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%) Stephen J Hadley; Frances Fragos Townsend

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Great Britain; London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



446 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS, WEEKLY CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Markets Absorb Shocks and Close Higher for a 4th Week

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER; Louise Story contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It was a week full of earnings reports -- some good, some bad -- more terrorism; testimony from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve; and the announcement that China was revaluing its currency.
 Shorter-term interest rates moved higher after Mr. Greenspan made clear that the Fed would keep raising its benchmark interest rate, and short- and long-term rates moved higher after the Chinese announcement.
But the stock market managed to absorb all the news without any damage, with the three main market gauges up for the fourth consecutive week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index both reached four-year highs, and the S.&P. 500 has risen four consecutives weeks for the first time since September. 
 The bond market and the dollar bounced back some yesterday, erasing some of the losses incurred after the Chinese announcement. And in a small surprise, the Chinese yuan, which was revalued up 2.05 percent Thursday, actually fell slightly in trading yesterday, its first day under the new system. 
 ''It was a good week because we were reminded of some of the big risks the market faces,'' said Hugh A. Johnson Jr., chief investment officer at Johnson Illington Advisors, but stocks did not buckle. ''That tells me there is some underlying bullishness.'' 
 But Laszlo Birinyi Jr., president of Birinyi Associates in Westport, Conn., said it had been difficult lately to figure out what was moving the stock market from day to day because investors keep changing their focus.
 ''The market has a lot of different issues,'' Mr. Birinyi said, ''and it never seems to be clear on a day-to-day basis which issue is dominant.''
 ''One day oil will go up a dollar and everyone will be concerned,'' he said, ''and the next day a company comes out with earnings and oil goes up another dollar and everybody focuses in on the significant company. The market isn't sure which donkey to pin the tail on.''
 On the day, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 6.64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,233.68 and was up 0.5 percent for the week. The Nasdaq index rose 1.14 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,179.74 and was up 1.1 percent for the week. EBay, Amgen and Broadcom were among the best performers in the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq for the week.
 The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 23.41 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,651.18 and inched up 0.1 percent for the week, led by Home Depot, Honeywell International, Alcoa and Caterpillar.
 After energy, the best-performing stocks were in the industrial, materials and consumer discretionary sectors, a sign that there is growing confidence among investors that the economy is on sure footing.
 In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped yesterday to 4.22 percent, from 4.27 percent Thursday, while the price rose 14/32, to 99 8/32. For the week, the yield on the 10-year note was up from 4.16 percent from last Friday.
 Almost 150 companies in the S.&P. 500 reported earnings this week, and another 167 are scheduled to report next week. Over all, the results from the 202 companies that have reported so far are positive, said John Butters, a research analyst at Thomson Financial.
 Earnings growth for the second quarter, compared with the same quarter a year ago, is now expected to be 9.4 percent, based on the actual results reported so far and the forecasts for the remaining companies in the S.&P. 500.
 In addition, Mr. Butters said that 72 percent of the companies that had reported had beaten expectations, which is well above the historic average. But he said that the amount of the outperformance -- 3.3 percent above expectations on average -- is lower than the average for the last two years. 
 The rebounds in the currency markets on Friday seemed to indicate that the sell-off in some Asian currencies was overdone after the Chinese announced that they were revaluing their currency and decoupling it from the dollar. Traders said the selling of the dollar against the yen and other Asian currencies on Thursday was in anticipation of these currencies strengthening along with the yuan.
 After falling 2.6 percent against the yen on Thursday, the dollar rose 1 percent yesterday. And after a 0.7 percent slip against the euro, the dollar also climbed 1 percent Friday. For the week, the dollar ended down 0.2 percent against the euro and 0.9 percent against the yen.
 The Chinese yuan slipped only slightly yesterday, falling from 8.11 to the dollar to 8.1111. Lewis S. Alexander, the chief economist at Citigroup, said he was not worried that the first daily move under the new foreign exchange regime was a tiny depreciation of the yuan.
 ''I don't put a lot of emphasis on the fact that it went the wrong way,'' he said, adding that what counts is that the yuan appreciates further over time. ''If we get three months down the road and we have moved less than 3 percent, that will be more telling.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Market Rises, but Not All Boats''Returns for the week ended yesterday for the sectors of the S. & P. 500-stock index.ENERGY: +3.81%MATERIALS +3.24CONSUMER DISCRETIONARY +1.34INDUSTRIALS +1.24INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY -0.10HEALTH CARE -0.17UTILITIES -0.28CONSUMER STAPLES -0.29FINANCIALS -0.65TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES -1.36S. & P. 500 INDEX +0.47(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (51%); BROADCOM CORP (51%); ALCOA INC (50%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (51%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (51%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%); HON (NYSE) (50%); HON (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



447 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Donaldson: The Exit Interview

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
I came with a mission,'' William H. Donaldson said the other day, reflecting on his tenure as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In retrospect, that was the big surprise. Mr. Donaldson, who stepped down late last month after two and a half tumultuous years, was never supposed to be a man with a plan. 
 Let's rewind. It's December 2002, and Mr. Donaldson has just been named to the post. The stock market has been reeling since March 2000, when the Internet bubble burst. Enron, WorldCom, Tyco: the list of companies embroiled in major scandals is large and getting larger. Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, has exposed the way Wall Street analysts promoted lousy companies to win investment banking business -- and he's several months away from bringing the mutual fund timing scandal to light.
 Mr. Donaldson's predecessor, Harvey L. Pitt, who came to the office promising a ''kinder, gentler'' agency, has managed to make matters oh-so-much worse with his lethal combination of arrogance and ineptitude. The country's faith in the integrity of the markets -- and of the S.E.C. itself -- is shaken. 
 ''It seemed to me a period not dissimilar to 1929,'' Mr. Donaldson said. ''Except that back then, relatively few people were investors. By the time I became S.E.C. chairman, over half the population was in the market one way or the other.'' And really, all the Bush administration wanted him to do -- this 71-year-old pillar of the Wall Street establishment, who, among other things, had spent five years not rocking the boat in the 1990's as the head of the New York Stock Exchange -- was calm everybody down, rebuild morale at the S.E.C. and restore some measure of confidence in both the markets and in the companies whose stocks and bonds we all buy and sell. 
 ''I remember saying that he was going to be a consensus builder, because that's what he'd been for most of his career,'' said James D. Cox, a professor of securities and corporate law at Duke University. ''I didn't think there would be much controversy on his watch. Boy, did I miss the mark on that prediction.'' 
 As it turns out, Mr. Donaldson did help restore faith in the markets. He did so in part by making peace with, and working alongside, Mr. Spitzer. He helped get Sarbanes-Oxley, the corporate reform act, up and running. He expanded the agency's enforcement staff, and backed its efforts to become genuinely tough with companies that had violated the rules; the commission imposed a staggering $5.3 billion in fines on his watch. ''He revived an institution that had been failing to address its mandate,'' Mr. Spitzer said.
 BUT as Mr. Donaldson, now 74, returns to private life, his efforts to do what President Bush -- and all of us -- needed him to do seem like so much ancient history. It's his other ideas, the ones no one knew he had, that people are talking about. About four months into his watch, he proposed a rule that would force largely unregulated hedge funds to register with the S.E.C. for the first time. (The new rule will take effect early next year.) He was behind a new national market system that will cause the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq to operate under the same set of rules (though, alas, it still gives advantages to the outmoded floor brokers and specialists at the stock exchange). 
 His S.E.C. proposed a plan that would have allowed shareholders to nominate corporate directors on their own, without management's involvement. (It died because the commissioners disagreed on how, or whether, to carry out the idea.) And he pushed through a regulation stipulating that every mutual fund board have directors who are independent of the management company that operates the fund, including an independent board chairman. Until now, mutual fund boards have largely consisted of executives of the fund's management company.
 As it became clear that Mr. Donaldson had a far more activist bent than anyone suspected, he became the subject of increasingly strident criticism. The hedge fund industry complained that registration was the first step toward out-and-out regulation, which, in turn, would stifle a vibrant and growing sector of Wall Street. The chairman of Fidelity Investments, Edward C. Johnson III, was a vociferous critic of the mutual fund rule -- lobbying fiercely against it, and even writing an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal that was both pointed and personal. The Chamber of Commerce went so far as to sue the commission over the mutual fund rule, which Mr. Donaldson pushed through at a contentious S.E.C. meeting last month.
 The partisanship that has affected the rest of Washington seeped into the commission. Mr. Donaldson was viewed by many conservatives as a turncoat because he voted so often with the two Democratic commissioners -- and against the two Republicans. He was labeled ''an overzealous regulator,'' and a high-handed chairman who didn't consult with his colleagues. The Republican commissioners began writing biting dissents to commission rulings. 
 Mr. Donaldson sighed when I asked him about the criticism. ''I was surprised at the extent of the doctrinaire thinking that was so rigid it couldn't accept the obvious conclusion that in a number of important areas we needed at least some mild regulation,'' he said. And for all the talk about his being a lover of regulation, that is how he saw himself: a mild regulator who was trying to make sure the playing field was level for the small investor. ''In other countries,'' he said, ''the disparity of treatment between institutional investors and individuals is gross. Here, we have institutions and individuals trading side by side, and the individual doesn't get trampled. I don't see how you do that without some regulation.''
 Indeed, his ideas for how to improve the system stemmed precisely from his lifetime of experience on Wall Street, running an investment firm. (He was a co-founder of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.) He knew exactly the places in the system where individual investors were getting short-shrift. Which is to say, he knew where the bodies were buried.
 Mutual funds -- to focus on the example that has generated the most recent heat -- were one such place. The argument put forth by Mr. Johnson and others in the fund industry is that fund management executives are the ones in the best position to serve the interests of a fund's shareholders. In his op-ed article, Mr. Johnson proudly wrote of his dual role as a fund company executive and an investor in Fidelity's mutual funds. Appointing a board chairman unconnected to the management company -- ''requiring that every ship have two captains,'' as Mr. Johnson wrote --would create far more problems than it would solve.
 When you listen to Mr. Donaldson, though, you realize what hogwash this argument is. In his view, mutual funds were being run more for the benefit of the fund's management company than for the fund's investors. ''Somewhere along the line,'' he said, ''the name of the game became gathering a lot of assets. If it can bring in a lot of assets, a fund company can make money no matter how the funds themselves perform for investors.'' 
 To Mr. Donaldson, the conflict of interest in having fund management executives oversee the funds themselves is glaring. ''The company executives have a fiduciary responsibility to their shareholders that is quite different from the responsibility the fund itself has to perform for its investors. When the board decides to raise fees, it may be acting in the best interest of the management company's shareholders, but it's not necessarily acting in the best interest of the fund's investors.''
 Surely, the fund timing scandal is proof that Mr. Donaldson is right. Fund company executives succumbed to the temptation to allow select insiders to late-trade their funds because it generated revenue for the company -- even though it hurt the fund's investors. Indeed, one could make an argument that if, say, Fidelity Magellan had an independent chairman, the directors might well be less tolerant of Magellan's pathetic performance the last five years, when it has significantly underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500. And they might not care so much that the fund's $50 billion-plus in assets generates tens of millions of dollars annually for Mr. Johnson's company. If anything, the new S.E.C. rule seems a pretty small step toward fixing what ails the fund industry.
 I can't say I agree with everything Mr. Donaldson did. But in the end, he did a lot of good, and we should acknowledge that fact before he fades too far into the sunset.
 Take a bow, Mr. Donaldson. You deserve it.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Arthur Mount)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BONDS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (54%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) William H Donaldson; Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005



448 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Write All About It (At Your Own Risk)

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

 BODY:

Q. You've embraced the daily catharsis of blogging, but given the recent spate of blog-sparked workplace controversies, you're worried that posts about work may jeopardize your job. How can you pontificate about your career in a manner that doesn't end with an unemployment check?

A. The safest way to approach blogging about work may be not to do it at all, said Nancy Flynn, executive director of the ePolicy Institute, a training and consulting firm in Columbus, Ohio.
 ''Blogging is such a subjective form of expression,'' Ms. Flynn said. ''What you think is a silly little comment could get broadcast into cyberspace, hurt the wrong person's feelings and put you at risk of reprimand or something worse.''

Q. What types of work-related posts should you avoid?

A. Nobody likes to be criticized in public, especially corporations that rely on customer support. Ms. Flynn said that bloggers should steer clear of attacks, both implicit and direct, on their employers, as well as personal diatribes about co-workers.
 Corporate confidentiality policies may also prohibit employees from blogging about news announcements or topics like products under development or marketing strategies. Ms. Flynn added that to avoid accusations of insider trading, bloggers from public companies should also refrain from posting anything the Securities and Exchange Commission could equate with forward-looking financial statements.

Q. What about seemingly harmless musings?

A. Posts about everyday issues like cubicle cohabitation or communal office refrigerators should not cause much trouble. Sometimes, however, it does not matter what you write -- the mere act of opening up could cost you a job.
 In January, Mark Jen started a programming job at Google -- which, by the way, provides services through its Blogger.com Web site that enable anyone to produce a blog. Mr. Jen, 22, used a personal blog to chronicle his first week for family and friends. He wrote about the company cafeteria, employee orientation and after-hours get-togethers. When his supervisors learned of the posts, he said, they asked him to remove posts that made them uncomfortable. He said he complied but was fired two days later. A Google spokeswoman declined to comment on his situation, but confirmed that he was no longer employed there.
 ''I didn't intend to cause trouble,'' said Mr. Jen, who now works at Plaxo, a software company in Mountain View, Calif. ''But because I was more transparent to the outsider than any of my co-workers, I stuck out like a sore thumb and the company didn't like it.'' Although many Google employees have blogs, most are anonymous, he said. 

Q. What about blogging anonymously?

A. If your employer can prove that you wrote critical posts, it may be able to dismiss you.
 Heather Armstrong, a graphic designer who created the blog Dooce.com, learned this the hard way. In February 2002, while employed at a private software company in Los Angeles, Ms. Armstrong complained colorfully about everything from her boss to obnoxious co-workers. Though she never revealed the name of her employer, a reader figured out where she worked and sent an e-mail message about Ms. Armstrong's rants to company executives. Ms. Armstrong, who now lives in Salt Lake City, was fired immediately.
 ''I thought that since my blog was my personal Web space, I could say whatever I wanted,'' she said recently.

Q. Are there any advantages to writing about work on your personal blog?

A. From a psychological perspective, blogging about professional life can be a constructive way to vent after a frustrating work experience, said Alexander C. Halavais, professor of communication at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
 And Mike Masnick, chief executive of Techdirt, a technology and business news blog based in Belmont, Calif., said employees whose blogs defend their employers against criticism could help counter negative news media attention. ''Individual blog entries about a company can humanize it, instead of making it seem like a monolithic organization,'' he said. He added that positive posts could be a recruitment tool for a company's human resources department.

Q. What if you don't use your blog to discuss work?

A. Keeping work issues off your personal blog does not mean that your employer won't hold the blog against you. ''It doesn't matter if you blog about skydiving or pornography,'' said Daniel M. Klein, a partner at the Atlanta law firm Buckley & Klein. ''If your employer feels the blog makes you a poor representative of their corporate values, the executives have the freedom to disassociate themselves from you.''
 Laws prevent employers from acting against employees on the basis of race, ethnicity, sex, age, religion or disability -- and, in some places, sexual orientation. Many workers have few other protections, employment lawyers said. 

Q. How can you find out your company's stance on blogging?

A. A joint study released in May by the ePolicy Institute and the American Management Association in New York indicated that 25 percent of 526 organizations surveyed had policies on blogging, and Ms. Flynn of the institute said that number had since increased. If you're not sure whether your employer has a policy, it may be prudent to ask first and blog later.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (66%); INSIDER TRADING (65%) Labor; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%) OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



449 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: July 24, 2005; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1315 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	3	ELEVEN ON TOP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) As she tries to leave the world of bounty hunting for good, Stephanie Plum comes to realize a lunatic is stalking her.		 	 	 	 2	2	4	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	 3	4	121	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 4	3	2	MIRACLE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $20.) When a terrible storm hits Northern California, the lives of three people are changed forever.		 	 	 	 5	5	14	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk who is just months away from taking his final vows.		 	 	 	 6		1	ALWAYS TIME TO DIE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Morrow, $24.95.) Political intrigue engulfs a genealogist after she is hired to research the history of a powerful New Mexican family.		 	 	 	 7	7	10	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, investigates a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	 	 8	6	13	TRUE BELIEVER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) A hip young New Yorker finds love with a beautiful librarian who lives in North Carolina.		 	 	 	 9	8	5	A LONG WAY DOWN, by Nick Hornby. (Riverhead, $24.95.) On New Year's Eve, four would-be suicides gather on a London rooftop.		 	 	 	 10		1	ADORED, by Tilly Bagshawe. (Warner, $23.95.) A gorgeous young woman sets out to follow in her grandfather's footsteps and become a Hollywood superstar.		 	 	 	 11	9	2	CROSS BONES, by Kathy Reichs. (Scribner, $25.95.) The murder of an Orthodox Jewish man in Montreal leads the forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan to Israel, where she encounters a biblical mystery.		 	 	 	 12	10	2	FIRE SALE, by Sara Paretsky. (Putnam, $25.95.) After a manufacturing plant explodes on the South Side of Chicago, the private eye V. I. Warshawski confronts the family that owns the By-Smart discount store chain.		 	 	 	 13		93	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died trying to rescue a girl finds that all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 14	14	4	DANCE OF DEATH, by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. (Warner, $25.95.) An F.B.I. agent contends with a murdering madman -- his own brother. 		 	 	 	 15	13	2	THE TRAVELER, by John Twelve Hawks. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A band of warriors known as the Harlequins seeks to protect good prophets from evil mercenaries.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	7	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	 2	2	13	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	 3	3	14	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	 4		1	THE SECRET MAN, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) The longtime reporter and editor for The Washington Post tells the story of Deep Throat and Watergate; with an afterword by Carl Bernstein.		 	 	 	 5	7	2	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	 6		1	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	 7	5	26	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 8	4	3	THE TRUTH ABOUT HILLARY, by Edward Klein. (Sentinel, $24.95.) An unflattering portrait of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.		 	 	 	 9	6	17	ON BULL/ / / /, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	 10	10	3	LANCE ARMSTRONG'S WAR, by Daniel Coyle. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) How the great cyclist won his sixth Tour de France in 2004. 		 	 	 	 11	9	41	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	 12		1	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of the addiction memoir ''A Million Little Pieces'' remembers a helpful mobster friend.		 	 	 	 13	8	2	*SILENT WITNESS, by Mark Fuhrman. (Morrow, $25.95.) The former detective with the Los Angeles Police Department looks at the Terri Schiavo case.		 	 	 	 14	14	26	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	 	 15	13	15	THREE NIGHTS IN AUGUST, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A three-game series in 2003 between the Cubs and the Cardinals, as seen through the eyes of Tony La Russa, the St. Louis manager.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended July 9, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

BLIND SPOT: The Secret History of American Counterterrorism, by Timothy Naftali. (Basic Books, $26.) An argument that terrorism has often threatened us but seldom been dealt with.

DEATH AND THE SUN: A Matador's Season in the Heart of Spain, by Edward Lewine. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) The state of the bullfighting art and a profile of the current Ordonez clan chief.

AMERICAN GOTHIC: A Life of America's Most Famous Painting, by Steven Biel. (Norton, $21.95.) The making of a national icon.

A STRANGE DEATH, by Hillel Halkin. (PublicAffairs, $26.) An Israeli writer's meditation on a Jewish spy ring that worked for Britain in Ottoman Palestine, with reverberations even now.

GARBAGE LAND: On the Secret Trail of Trash, by Elizabeth Royte. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Weird stuff that happens to what we discard.

UNTIL I FIND YOU, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Jack Burns, the fortunate hero of Irving's novel, seems to be sexually molested by girls from the age of 5, but it does him no harm.

LAST CALL FOR BLACKFORD OAKES, by William F. Buckley Jr. (Harcourt, $25.) After a decade of absence, Buckley's superspy hero arrives in Moscow to annoy Kim Philby deeply.

ENVY, by Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $24.95.) A psychoanalyst is unhappy but distant until Greek-tragedy things start happening in this novel by an ace student of sexual violation.

THE ICARUS GIRL, by Helen Oyeyemi. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) A nightmarish first novel whose 8-year-old protagonist is haunted by a malevolent spook.

FAITH AT WAR: A Journey on the Frontlines of Islam, From Baghdad to Timbuktu, by Yaroslav Trofimov. (Holt, $26.) A guide to the Islamic universe by a Wall Street Journal correspondent who has not found a lot to cheer us up with.

THE UNITED STATES OF WAL-MART, by John Dicker. (Jeremy P. Tarcher/Penguin, paper, $12.95.) An amusing, intuitive analysis of the history and lore of the biggest dealer in everything.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOMEN (89%); HISTORY (77%); GENEALOGY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FORENSICS (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); DEATHS (70%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (70%); CELEBRITIES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); RETAILERS (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (76%); JAMES PATTERSON (51%); MITCH ALBOM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW MEXICO, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



450 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Prostitution Puts U.S. and Brazil at Odds on AIDS Policy

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, July 23 

 BODY:
In their baseball caps and T-shirts adorned with a rose in the shape of a heart, they are a familiar and welcome presence in the red-light district on the outskirts of downtown here. For years now, they have been distributing condoms to the prostitutes who work the streets, part of the Brazilian government's larger effort to hold AIDS in check.
 Until recently, the condom campaign of the group called Fio da Alma had been partly financed through the United States Agency for International Development. But no longer: rather than comply with an American demand that all foreign recipients of AIDS assistance must explicitly condemn prostitution, Brazil has decided to forgo up to $40 million in American support.
 ''Our feeling was that the manner in which the Usaid funds were consigned would bring harm to our program from the point of view of its scientific credibility, its ethical values and its social commitment,'' Pedro Chequer, director of the Brazilian government's AIDS program, said in an interview in Brasilia. ''We must remain faithful to the established principles of the scientific method and not allow theological beliefs and dogma to interfere.'' 
 Experts here and abroad say the disagreement over how to deal with prostitution is symptomatic of a larger conflict between Brazil and the United States over AIDS policy. Brazil, which spends more than $400 million annually on what is regarded as the most successful AIDS program in the developing world, is taking a pragmatic approach in combating the global epidemic, the experts say, while the United States, increasingly, is not.
 ''It's not as if you're choosing between two neutral policy programs,'' said Chris Beyrer of the Center for Public Health and Human Rights at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. ''Brazil has good data to show that their approach works, and to ask them to change that, even if they get the additional money, to one for which there is no evidence, just because of moral squeamishness in the United States, is an extraordinary position to take.''
 Dr. Beyrer is one of several thousand AIDS specialists from all over the world who have gathered here for an annual conference of the International AIDS Society that begins Monday. Mark Dybul, deputy coordinator and chief medical officer for the Bush administration's global AIDS initiative, is also taking part, and says the prostitution controversy is not only overblown, but is also an example of the many misconceptions about American policy. 
 ''On the ground, this isn't an issue,'' Dr. Dybul said in an interview here on Friday. ''Part of a compassionate response involves meeting people where they are and working with them.'' 
 He added, ''Each country has a sovereign right to make decisions for themselves, and we respect that.'' But in order to receive American aid, he said, ''it does require an acknowledgment that prostitution is not a good thing and to be opposed to it.''
 One gauge of Brazil's success in confronting AIDS is to compare the situation here with that of other developing countries, many of which have sent delegations to study the Brazilian program. In 1990, for example, Brazil and South Africa had roughly the same rate of prevalence of H.I.V. among their adult populations, just over 1 percent.
 Today, some studies indicate that 20 percent or more of South African adults of reproductive age are infected with H.I.V. or have AIDS, an estimated total of more than 5 million of the country's 44 million people. In Brazil, in contrast, the rate has dropped nearly by half, and the number of patients being treated has held steady, at about 600,000 out of a total population of 180 million. 
 ''The Brazilian program very early on attempted to recognize that this is a pandemic that could travel through the population if there weren't programs to provide education and give special attention to vulnerable groups,'' said Mark Schneider, who was the Agency for International Development's director for Latin America in the Clinton administration and has worked at the Pan-American Health Organization.
 ''They attempted to take out the stigma and practice safe sex so as to prevent the epidemic from expanding, and in that way they were well ahead of other countries, particularly in the developing world.''
 But the Brazilian approach is anathema to many conservatives in the United States because it makes use of methods seen as morally objectionable. Brazil not only operates a needle and syringe exchange program for drug addicts but also rejects the Bush administration's emphasis on abstinence, being faithful and the controlled use of condoms, the so-called ABC approach, in favor of a pragmatism that recognizes that sexual desire can sometimes overwhelm reason.
 ''Obviously abstinence is the safest way to avoid AIDS,'' Dr. Chequer said. ''But it's not viable in an operational sense unless you are proposing that mankind be castrated or genetically altered, and then you would end up with something that is not human but something else altogether.''
 ''If we increasingly focus the prevention of AIDS along these lines, we are generating carnage, a slaughter,'' he said. ''It's not a realistic vision, and the epidemic is going to grow larger and larger.''
 Brazil, of course, is not the only country to have been affected by the American policy. Senegal has one of the lowest H.I.V. prevalence rates in Africa, but has been cut off from the Bush administration initiative, public health experts said, because prostitution has been legal there since 1969. And in Central American countries like Guatemala, religious groups supported by American financing have distributed fliers to prostitutes urging them to adopt the ABC approach.
 Fio da Alma, which means Thread of the Soul in Portuguese, is one of about 30 AIDS groups across Brazil that works with prostitutes in cooperation with an organization called Da Vida, or For Life. As many as one million condoms a month are distributed through that program, one of several that were initially financed in part through the American aid agency and were expected to continue as part of a grant that would last through 2008.
 The United States wanted to remain involved because the White House in 2003 announced a five-year $15 billion program known as the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Congress has authorized financing, but also required that all groups getting American money make an explicit statement of policy opposing prostitution and sex trafficking.
 Brazilian AIDS groups that work with prostitutes argue that they are not endorsing the sex trade. Because many of those involved in the Brazilian program are prostitutes themselves, they know the risks involved.
 ''With what we do, we are definitely not encouraging the sexual exploitation of women and girls,'' said Ivanilda Lima, 64, the director of Fio da Alma, who said she had been a prostitute herself since age 13. ''We just want women who are already on the streets to be able to protect their health.''
 Brazil and the Bush administration have differed on other AIDS-related issues in the past, including what Dr. Chequer described as a recent effort to get Brazil to endorse the ABC approach. But in each case, he said, the two sides managed to find a middle ground without violating their own principles.
 Over the prostitution issue, however, a compromise does not appear possible. Even if the Bush administration were willing to offend the conservative religious groups that are one of its main constituencies, its hands would be tied by the Congressional legislation.
 ''We follow the law,'' Dr. Dybul said. ''The law says that groups must oppose prostitution, and we will enforce that. We believe that prostitution is a bad thing, both for H.I.V. infection and for the individual. But we are opposed to the activity, not to the person.''
 Brazilian AIDS workers, on the other hand, argue that even if the Ministry of Health here were willing to accept the American demand, it could not do so legally. Under Brazilian law, two people having sex in exchange for money is neither a felony nor a misdemeanor, but an infraction much like a traffic violation (although procurement is a crime).
 ''Prostitution in Brazil isn't legalized, but it's not illegal either,'' Dr. Chequer explained.
 In addition, Brazilian labor law recognizes ''sex worker'' as a profession. That entitles prostitutes, call girls and street hustlers to contribute to the official government pension fund and to receive benefits when they retire.
 ''We view prostitutes as partners in this effort, partners who are efficient and competent'' in getting Brazilians to give up dangerous sexual behavior, Dr. Chequer said. ''Prostitution exists everywhere in the world, including the United States, and we have a commitment to work with this group and respect them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prostitutes waiting for clients in the Copacabana neighborhood of Rio.
 Ivanilda Lima, second from right, director of the Fio da Alma program, discussed AIDS awareness last week with a prostitute and client in Rio. (Photographs by Douglas Engle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); PROSTITUTION (91%); AIDS POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ETHICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RELIGION (66%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Prostitution

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%)

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (77%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



451 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: PLANNING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term-Care Insurance: How Much Is Too Much?

BYLINE: By SUSAN B. GARLAND

 BODY:
AFTER more than two decades on the market, long-term-care insurance remains a tough sell. Only 10 percent of people over 65 own policies, with many holdouts saying that they are intimidated by high costs and the bewildering array of benefit levels, deductible periods and other features.
 Like most insurance, policies for long-term care protect against improbable events. But unlike homeowners' insurance and auto insurance, this coverage often requires a lifetime commitment to one insurer; premiums can rise sharply if the policyholder switches. And while health insurance covers immediate issues, buyers of long-term-care insurance can pay premiums for decades with no way to predict if their coverage is what they will need.
 ''People are confused because they are first-time buyers and have not built up the reservoir of experiences in buying and using benefits,'' said Jesse Slome, president of Sales Creators Inc., which publishes Long-Term Care Insurance Sales Strategies, an industry magazine. ''They're so afraid of making a mistake that either they'll buy too much or they'll buy nothing because they can't afford the price tag.'' 
 Consumers who want to protect themselves in the event of the worst-case outcome -- many years in a nursing home -- can spend at least $10,000 a year on premiums for full coverage. According to a survey by the MetLife Mature Market Institute, the average cost of a year in a private room of a nursing home was $70,080 in 2003, though prices vary greatly by region: $36,135 in Shreveport, La., for example, but $113,880 in New York City.
 But a new study shows that only a small percentage of policyholders need care for long periods -- four years or more. So a growing number of specialists recommend more modest policies for which the policyholder pays a bigger share of the costs.
 Customers who want to hedge their bets can buy a policy to cushion part of the financial blow. They must be prepared to pay for part of their care out of pocket, so they must assess their financial situation and study the many options. Many may need no coverage, including people with few or substantial assets, specialists say.
 ''Some insurance agents still strongly believe that people should buy the maximum possible for a policy to be worthwhile,'' said Dawn Helwig, a principal in Chicago of Milliman Inc., and co-author of the new study on insurance claims. ''But those policies are very expensive. It puts you into the Cadillac market all the time, and a lot of Chevy owners are missed.'' Forgoing some bells and whistles can reap big savings. At one insurer, a single 65-year-old who buys a policy with a $200 daily benefit for life with a 30-day deductible can pay $9,936 a year, according to Long-Term Care Quote, an agency in Chandler, Ariz. For $2,964, the company will sell a policy with a $150 daily benefit for three years and a 90-day deductible.
 Robert W. Davis, the agency's chief executive, said consumers should consider several solid insurers. 
 Generally, Mr. Davis said, policyholders won't be collecting benefits until 15 to 20 years after they buy a policy, ''so they want a highly rated and financially stable carrier.'' He suggested reviewing the ratings at Standard & Poor's, A.M. Best and Weiss Ratings.
 There's still no guarantee that a company will be around when you need it. In recent years, big players like Transamerica and CNA Financial have left the individual market. They must still honor contracts, but ''a company that is no longer actively selling is more likely to follow the letter of the contract rather than respond in a more positive way,'' said Tom Riekse Jr., executive vice president of LTCI Partners, an agency in Libertyville, Ill. 
 Consumers should also review retirement assets. Not everyone needs long-term-care insurance, said John E. Ryan, head of Ryan Insurance Strategy Consultants in Greenwood Village, Colo., a brokerage firm and adviser to financial planners. People with a net worth of $1 million to $1.5 million, not including the family home, could probably self-insure, meaning pay the cost out of their pocket, he said.
 Those with a net worth of less than $250,000 may not have enough liquid assets to warrant years of premiums, Mr. Ryan said. They may be better off receiving benefits from state Medicaid programs, which require ''spending down'' assets, generally to $2,000, to become eligible; Congress is considering proposals to require the elderly to exhaust even more financial resources before they can become eligible. 
 Many people in the middle could ''integrate their insurance with other assets,'' buying a lower-premium policy that would entail some direct costs, Mr. Ryan said.
 Mr. Ryan suggested that consumers consult a financial planner or other specialist for an estimate of how much care they could afford beyond what insurance covers.
 It would be a mistake, Mr. Ryan said, for consumers to believe that they can accumulate enough for care by investing the equivalent of the premium each year. A 55-year-old who invested $2,000 a year -- the premium for one insurer's high-deductible policy that pays $65,700 a year for three years -- would save $172,750 by age 85, Mr. Ryan said. (That assumes annual interest of 6.5 percent.) By the time that person turned 85, a single year of care could run $283,951, assuming that costs rose 5 percent a year, he said. 
 Buying a policy earlier can lower premiums. A policy that cost a 65-year-old $2,964 a year would cost a 45-year-old $1,584, according to Long Term Care Quote. Younger applicants are also less likely to be denied coverage for health reasons. A study by Wakely Consulting Group, an actuarial firm in Clearwater, Fla., found that for 100,000 applications from 2003 and 2004, 11 percent of applicants in their 50's were denied coverage, compared with 19 percent in their 60's and 43 percent in their 70's. But those in their 40's, the industry's newest targets, should defer the decision until they are 55 or 60, specialists say. Younger people face more pressing needs, like college costs and mortgage payments, that could force them to lapse on payments and lose all that they have paid.
 ''We encourage people to buy coverage once they have a nest egg to preserve,'' Mr. Davis said. ''When the last child has graduated college, you won't have a big need for life insurance, so you can move those premiums into long-term-care insurance.''
 Many policyholders buy coverage expecting premiums to stay the same for life. In the past few years, though, several insurers, who underestimated outlays and investment income, have increased premiums on current policyholders. While states generally do not permit insurers to raise an individual's premiums based on age and health, companies can seek permission from state regulators to increase rates for all holders of a particular policy. 
 The good news is that many policies now cover home care, assisted living, respite care and hospice care; two decades ago, many covered only nursing home care. Policy shoppers should make sure that a plan offers at least home care and assisted living coverage, and will pay as much for those as for nursing home care.
 Another crucial feature is the benefit period, which can run from two years to a lifetime. But a study of 137,514 claims on 1.7 million policies by Ms. Helwig of Milliman and a colleague found that most policyholders eligible for lifetime coverage made claims for only short periods. The findings challenged the picture that many insurers paint of the elderly languishing indefinitely in residential institutions.
 The study, released in April, found that only 3.6 percent of claims filed for nursing home, assisted living and home services were for care that lasted four to five years, and 4.3 percent were for care lasting more than five years. In 76.7 percent of claims, care lasted less than two years. 
 ABOUT a third of all policyholders, though, had policies that provided benefits for seven years to a lifetime, Milliman found. Policyholders pay a high cost for unneeded benefits: a three-year policy costs 36 percent to 39 percent less than one with lifetime benefits. 
 ''I would go for four or five years of coverage, but for someone who has limited income and assets, three years should be satisfactory,'' Ms. Helwig said.
 A shorter benefit period makes sense in the four states that offer ''partnership'' policies -- New York, Connecticut, California and Indiana. Medicaid will pick up the bill once an individual depletes significant assets; in these states, consumers who buy policies from selected insurers may protect additional assets if the cost of care exceeds a policy's total payout. For instance, someone who buys a policy that pays out $100,000 can protect an extra $100,000 in assets and still be eligible for Medicaid.
 One way for married couples to get more years of coverage is to buy joint benefits. Spouses can take out separate policies that enable one to tap into the other's benefits. Or they can buy a single policy that allows each spouse to draw on the total years -- for instance, six years split any way they want. Such policies make particular sense for wives, who tend to require care longer than their husbands. 
 Buyers can also save by opting for a longer deductible. An ''elimination period'' can be as long as 100 days, during which the policyholder must pay the full cost of care. A policy with a 90-day elimination period costs about 30 percent less than one with a 30-day elimination period. Many specialists recommend the 90-day version as long as people realize that they may have to pay $12,000 to $25,000 in current dollars out of pocket.
 One place not to skimp is inflation protection, insurance specialists say. Only 40 percent of new policyholders buy such protection, says AARP, which estimates that the price of a day in a medium-cost nursing home could more than quintuple by 2035.
 If Congress decides to change Medicaid rules, a larger number of elderly people may give long-term-care insurance a second look. A lesser-frills policy, though still costly, may provide the safety net that many risk-averse elderly people need.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Mike Hutmacher/The Wichita Eagle, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (93%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); AGING (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (73%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MATURE MARKET (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); SALES PLAN (68%); WRITERS (67%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Nursing Homes; Aged; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MILLIMAN INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Metlife Inc 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (61%)

PERSON: Susan B Garland

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); LOUISIANA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



452 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 7852 words

HEADLINE: Planet Of the Retired Apes

BYLINE: By Charles Siebert. 
Charles Siebert is a contributing writer and the author, most recently, of ''A Man After His Own Heart: A True Story.''

 BODY:
This past spring, in a secluded patch of forest in northwest Louisiana's Caddo Parish, a singularly bizarre bit of evolution unfolded. There, amid the sun-dappled pines and flitting birds, a pair of 40-something chimpanzees named Rita and Teresa -- lifetime research subjects who were originally taken from Africa for use in NASA's space program -- became American pioneers of a whole other sort: the first beneficiaries of an inspired piece of retirement legislation passed by the United States government. Under the watchful eyes of animal behaviorists, veterinarians, enrichment specialists and daily caretakers, Rita and Teresa checked in on the afternoon of April 4 at the recently opened Chimp Haven, the first federally financed, taxpayer-supported retirement home for chimpanzees.
 They arrived in a specially equipped trailer after an eight-hour drive from the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research in San Antonio, Tex. After receiving full physicals from Chimp Haven's in-house veterinarian, including dental checkups for possible extractions or root canals, the two chimps were shown to their spacious new sleeping quarters, complete with fresh running water and cross-ventilation, multiple windows and skylights, hammocks made of neatly crosshatched sections of used fire hose, bedding of warm blankets and hay, vanity mirrors, as well as a TV, a VCR and DVD and CD players. 
 Following a long nap, Rita and Teresa awoke to a couple of banana smoothies and were shown the door to their courtyard. As it was recalled to me by a staff member, they paused a moment to regard the somewhat otherworldly prospect of a wide-open, odor-free patio, a playground jungle gym and, just beyond the play yard's far walls, their own private five-acre expanse of grapevine-laced pines and sweetgums. And then, as if in some unwitting primate pantomime of the very Apollo 11 moonwalk they'd helped to make a reality, they stepped out into the sunlight and tentatively down onto an equally unfamiliar earth.
 In the months since Rita and Teresa arrived at Chimp Haven, a number of fellow research chimps have followed in their bold footsteps: Augusta, Conan, Suzanna, Ellie, Puddin' and Merv, all from the Yerkes National Primate Research Center, a major facility for infectious-disease and behavioral research in Atlanta. Another group of chimps from the Southwest Foundation in San Antonio came soon afterward. Thirty retirees are now in residence. By the time Chimp Haven, parts of which are still under construction, has its official ribbon-cutting ceremony in October, approximately 75 chimps will have settled there. When the facility is fully completed, sometime in 2006, it will hold up to 200.
 Chimp Haven is a happy consequence of the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance and Protection (or Chimp) Act, passed in the final days of the Clinton administration. The bill allotted up to $30 million, pending matching funds from private donations, for the construction of the facility, which, with future expansions, could house as many as 900 chimps and serve as a template for the nationwide ''system of sanctuaries'' mandated by Congress to accommodate the country's growing number of surplus chimpanzees. Whether or not Chimp Haven is, as its publicity brochure proclaims, ''what chimpanzees dream of,'' a fellow primate -- a human being, let's say, also living in this country in the year 2005, when the future of Social Security and old-age pensions is very much in doubt -- could be forgiven for trying to pinch himself awake upon encountering the splendors of this monkey Delray Beach.
 Still, for all of its feel-good aspects and carefully considered creature comforts, Chimp Haven is also a reflection of a darker set of realities, a particularly topsy-turvy time in the already tumultuous history of our so-called compact with the wild; a moment when the number of chimpanzees in the wilderness is rapidly decreasing and the number of those in captivity continues to rise. In fact, while chimpanzees in the wilderness are now officially designated endangered, those in captivity are not. There are an estimated 2,500 captive chimps in the United States, a number that's difficult to pinpoint because of the many private breeders still turning out baby chimps, mostly for private ownership or use in entertainment. Of the 1,500 or so laboratory chimps, nearly half are no longer being used for experimentation. Lab chimps today are largely confined to behavioral studies and hepatitis and malaria research, and an even greater number may soon be rendered unnecessary for research by advances in DNA analysis and computer modeling. As for the remaining refugees of entertainment and private ownership, their ranks continue to swell even though chimps are unmanageable much past the age of 6 and despite the fact that advances in computer animation may soon obviate altogether the need for actual animal performers.
 Chimps are spilling forth now from all quadrants of our keeping -- research labs, traveling zoos, movie and TV studios, backyard pens -- and an international network of sanctuaries, in Canada, Europe, Africa and South America, along with the United States, has sprung up to accommodate them. Indeed, one newly expanded, privately financed sanctuary called Save the Chimps will soon accommodate more than 250 former lab chimps, the largest collection of retired primates in history. 
 Retirement for chimps is, in its way, a perversely natural outcome, which is to say, one that only we, the most cranially endowed of the primates, could have possibly concocted. It's the final manifestation of the irrepressible and ultimately vain human impulse to bring inside the very walls that we erect against the wilderness its most inspiring representatives -- the chimps, our closest biological kin, the animal whose startling resemblance to us, both outward and inward, has long made it a ''can't miss'' for movies and Super Bowl commercials and a ''must have'' in our laboratories. Retirement homes are, in a sense, where we've been trying to get chimps all along: right next door.

A Little Piece of Heaven
The narrow two-lane road to Chimp Haven winds through a sparsely populated stretch of forest, punctuated here and there by trailer parks and roadside farms, a few new housing developments and, just up the road from the entrance to the Eddie D. Jones Nature Park, the paint-chipped hull of the Macedonia Baptist Church. Chimp Haven's 200 acres are situated within the grounds of the park, which assures the chimps a relatively good buffer from human encroachment. The only other tenants are a cemetery for war veterans and the Forcht Wade Correctional Center, a state prison with its own new geriatric facility for aging lifers.
 A prison work crew was scything a field in the park not far from Chimp Haven's entrance gate the afternoon I arrived. One prisoner pulled back from his work as I drove up and he locked eyes with mine, a searing, deeply unsettling stare that suddenly had me wondering if there wasn't something to the rumors I'd heard that the inmates weren't pleased about their new neighbors. I'd ask Forcht Wade's assistant warden, Anthony D. Batson, about this later that afternoon, making an impromptu visit to the correctional facility after leaving Chimp Haven. Batson came to the front desk and showed me to his office, a veritable museum to the Tigers, Louisiana State University's beloved football team. He told me the prisoners were certainly aware of Chimp Haven, having access to TV and newspapers, and doing occasional work in the area, but that he hadn't heard them express any particular opinions about it. ''A number of guys have asked me what would happen if one of the chimps gets out,'' he said. ''Whether they'd have to go get it. But we both have our escape procedures. Theirs is a modern, up-to-date, first-class containment facility. They're on top of it. Of course, they tranquilize. We don't tranquilize.''
 At the request of Chimp Haven's president, Linda Brent, a behavioral primatologist specializing in chimpanzees, I timed my arrival at Chimp Haven for a few days before any chimps arrived, so that the retirees could get acclimated to their new environment and to one another with as few distractions from humans as possible. Brent, an expert in captive-chimpanzee management, is a slight woman in her early 40's with a Midwestern country-girl swagger. She wrote her dissertation on infant chimp development, conducting her research at Gombe National Park in Tanzania, the site of Jane Goodall's pioneering work on wild chimpanzees. For Brent, the experience of seeing chimps in the wild, ''just walking by, doing whatever they want, whenever they want,'' as she put it, changed her life. Now, after 17 years of being what she calls ''the entertainment director'' for the research chimps at the Southwest Foundation in San Antonio, she could hardly contain herself when talking about Rita and Teresa's imminent arrival.
 ''It's been since the 1960's that they were in the wild,'' she said. ''We don't even know where they were taken from. The records from back then aren't very good. Just the fact that you could import them -- that was done away with in the early 70's, which is why they started breeding programs for research. But I think they'll be fine. They'll be nervous at first. They aren't used to trees. That type of thing.''
 At the beginning of my tour of Chimp Haven, I walked out into one of the facility's two wooded areas, accessed from the chimps' bedrooms and play areas through a system of metal chutes. Each section is a five-acre wedge of woods, secured with a combination of 8-foot-deep moats (chimps, being all muscle, sink like stones) and 17-foot-high concrete walls with inset metal-barred apertures running their entire length, so that even from their pastoral remove the chimps can look back toward the hubbub of the facility's central residence. A number of Chimp Haven's incoming retirees will still be sexually active and, chimps being quite promiscuous, all the males will be vasectomized, thus allowing them to ''express their normal behavioral repertoire,'' as Amy Fultz, Chimp Haven's primate behaviorist, put it.
 Fultz worked with Brent at the Southwest Foundation in San Antonio, doing behavioral studies and devising what they call ''enrichment'' activities with the research chimps there. In 1995, she and Brent founded Chimp Haven, which then was dedicated primarily to gathering concerned primatologists and chimpanzee specialists to start devising a way of dealing with the country's growing number of surplus chimpanzees. The great lab-chimp surplus is, in large part, an unforeseeable consequence of AIDS. In 1986, the National Institutes of Health began an aggressive breeding program that nearly doubled the number of research chimps in the country, on the seemingly logical but ultimately incorrect assumption that our closest genetic kin would serve as ideal models for developing a vaccine. Chimps, it turns out, can contract the virus, but they are virtually immune to its effects.
 Suddenly faced with the huge ethical and economic problems of what to do with so many surplus chimpanzees (each chimp costs roughly $10,000 a year to maintain), the National Research Council issued a report in 1997 advising Congress against euthanizing the chimps, calling instead for some way of properly repaying them for services rendered. With the urging of a consortium of animal-welfare organizations known as the National Chimpanzee Research Retirement Task Force, and with support from numerous laboratories and various zoological organizations, the Chimp Act passed unanimously. Chimp Haven was awarded the contract to construct and maintain the government's new chimpanzee-sanctuary system in September 2002, and when a group of local developers and the Caddo Parish Commission offered up 200 acres of parish parkland, all the pieces for constructing the flagship of that system were in place.
Every aspect of Chimp Haven has been carefully considered, right down to the grief counselors for the staff for when the chimps pass away. Touring the facility's huge main kitchen, I saw refrigerator shelves lined with rows of ''apesicles'' -- plastic cups filled with a frozen fruit-juice suspension of raw vegetables and fruit. Against the opposite wall, alongside a popcorn maker, stood a massive container of primate biscuits -- essentially dry hunks of vitamin-and-protein-enriched kibble. Set out on a long metal food-preparation table were rows of turf boards: square sections of thick plastic covered with AstroTurf onto which staff workers were getting ready to smear a mixture of peanut butter, nuts and seeds, which the chimps must ferret out with their fingers. Insofar as the better part of a chimpanzee's day in the wild is spent foraging for food, many of these enrichment devices at Chimp Haven are geared toward alleviating the boredom of having three squares regularly served up to them.
 ''Everything we use here we try to evaluate on a scientific level,'' Fultz explained when I asked her about some of the other enrichment items I'd been shown: crayons and chalk, giant plastic toys and Nylabones (basically big dog-chews), Mighty Mouse and Woody Woodpecker videotapes and television sets, specially rigged with clear plastic coverings to protect the electronics. Chimps have very strong and immediate likes and dislikes. Observational evidence to date has revealed that chimps find nature-sound CD's soothing. Younger chimps prefer kids' movies, Disney specials, ''Barney'' and the like. The mature chimps' tastes, on the other hand, tend toward melodrama and anything with lots of action and aggression. Soap operas like ''Passions'' and ''General Hospital'' are big hits, the latter, it seems, because lab chimps have gotten so used to people in white coats. ''The Jerry Springer Show'' and N.F.L. football games are also quite popular. Golf, baseball and PBS programming (except, of course, for nature shows) are not.
 Along with indulging acquired tastes, however, Chimp Haven simultaneously strives to revive long-dormant inherited ones. Most surplus chimps were born in captivity and, after years of proximity to and interaction with human beings, they are, as primatologists say, ''highly enculturated,'' or habituated to life on human terms. Indeed, staff members cited a particular sense of urgency about getting Rita and Teresa to Chimp Haven. They are among the few remaining wild-born captive chimps, and it was hoped that they would ''remember what they did as little kids,'' as Brent put it, and teach those habits to their captive-born brethren, animals that have essentially become hybrids of us and them, a cosmopolitan monkey for whom a sudden and complete severance from us and our ways would constitute the next form of abuse.
 In short, the place is a veritable chimpanzee Jurassic Park, a shining example of just how far we can extend the inherently paradoxical process of trying to liberate and dignify a wild creature within captivity. It's all a direct answer and antidote to the days of the old inner-city-zoo ape house, where all that the inhabitants got was the equivalent of a tiled public lavatory stall with a token section of log and a metal nameplate secured out front, a dot on a silhouette of Africa indicating the captive's original home. By the exit of those old ape houses there was sometimes one of those silly mirrors with bars painted in front and a caption below that read, ''The Most Dangerous Animal of Them All.'' Chimp Haven is, in essence, a result of one long, serious look in that mirror.
 Earlier on the morning of my visit, I stopped by the Chimp Haven office in downtown Shreveport to meet the executive director, Linda Koebner. A lifetime New Yorker, born and raised in the Bronx, where she still lives part time, Koebner is something of a pioneer in chimp retirement. In 1974, she transferred nine chimpanzees from the no-longer-operational Laboratory for Experimental Medicine and Surgery in Primates in Tuxedo, N.Y., to a new home on their own island in a habitat facility known as Lion Country Safari, in Loxahatchee, Fla. Koebner showed me film clips of the chimps' initial arrival to that island. It was some time before three of the chimps, , Swing, Spark and Doll, could even be coaxed from their cages, having known only those until then. Once outside, Doll shot up to the top of the nearest tree. Spark held to his cage even as he was leaving it, and then nestled alongside the open door, where he ripped away an attached packaging slip and put it over his face. He kept gingerly pawing at the ground, as if testing its reliability. Koebner could observe her newly freed charges only from the far side of their moat. (Full-grown chimpanzees are several times as strong as humans and can be quite dangerous.)
 Nineteen years after the chimps' arrival on the island, however, Koebner, accompanied by a habitat employee wielding a movie camera, was allowed to try a firsthand visit. In the film you can see a couple of chimps coming forward from the far side of their island toward the same climbing platform that Koebner's boat is fast approaching. ''Hey . . . remember me?'' Koebner keeps repeating in a soft, breathy voice to Swing and Doll, waiting now at the edge of the climbing platform. As the boat arrives, Koebner pauses a moment, then reaches across the prow and, within seconds, she is being enveloped, her slight frame slipping in and out of deep, alternating hugs from Swing and then Doll, each politely waiting turns for another embrace of their sobbing liberator.

Us and Them
The sophistication of the chimpanzee mind has been well documented in the near half-century since Jane Goodall's pioneering studies of chimps in the wild. Chimps learn and use American Sign Language. They have been taught to do math fractions and have demonstrated the intelligence level of a 5-year-old. They have a clear sense of self-awareness. Hold a mirror in front of a chimp with a toothache, and he'll immediately set about pulling back his gums to find which tooth it is that's hurting. Chimps feel sorrow and remorse. They will mourn the death of a friend or a relative. They are even thought now to have the rudiments of their own culture.
 ''When we went and started looking at different populations of chimps across Africa, we found variations in behavior that could not be explained in the usual biological ways,'' William McGrew, a field primatologist and professor of anthropology at Miami University in Ohio, told me. ''They are passing on behavioral patterns that seem to vary from place to place, and group to group, and from generation to generation, and we were sort of forced in a way into the cultural analogy as a way to explain it because the traditional biological ways for explaining it wouldn't suffice.''
 Two years ago, McGrew, who has been observing chimps in the wilds of East, Central and West Africa for more than three decades, came upon a group of chimps in southeastern Senegal that were living in caves. ''No one had ever seen it before,'' he said. ''I mean, chimpanzees, you think of them swinging through the trees. But at the peak of the dry season, when it's very, very hot, these chimps retreat into the cooler caves, and they take food with them and have a siesta and a picnic.''
 Clearly, the more we understand about the complexity of the chimpanzee, the more complicated keeping them -- be it for research or for our own amusement -- becomes. There was a certain innocence and naivete about our earliest containment and representation of them as conveyed in the anthropocentric framing of the first ape houses or movies like ''King Kong'' and ''Mighty Joe Young.'' Now, however, we and they seem to be caught somewhere between that original childlike exuberance over having them close to us and an increasingly subtle and discomfiting awareness of just how close to us, in every way, they actually are. We can see so clearly in the chimpanzee some former and formative version of ourselves that, if only as a further extension of the very vanity that led us to co-opt them in the first place, we are compelled to find them better and more civil accommodations.
 Many established zoos have now erected habitat-minded enclosures that allow chimps some semblance of their natural social groupings and behavior. Privately financed sanctuaries, meanwhile, have sprung up across the country, even as private breeders go on churning out more chimps for entertainment or private ownership. In either role, chimps have only five to six years of viability before they grow too strong and willful to be controlled. Most of them end up spending the rest of their 45 to 50 years, on average, in breeding compounds, research lab facilities or roadside zoos. Even established zoos now regularly turn away former pet and entertainer chimps, because of their aberrant personalities and often antisocial behaviors.
 I met a number of these chimps this past spring at a 100-acre sanctuary known as the Center for Great Apes in Wauchula, Fla., a veritable Hollywood Squares of washed-up ape actors, far more accustomed to humans and movie-set caterers' tables than to other monkeys and monkey chow. After I said hello to one 24-year-old, a former five-shows-a-day entertainer named Roger, he stood in his enclosure, thrust his chest forward and threw one arm straight up in the classic stage-show ''ta da!'' pose. Roger was originally trained for work in the Ringling Brothers circus. After his trainer retired, Roger ended up in a roadside zoo in Kissimee, Fla., called Jungleland, from which he was eventually rescued by the founder of the Center for Great Apes, Patti Ragan. Like many of Ragan's other charges, Roger has a number of odd behavioral tics and psychological scars that can contribute to sudden outbursts -- like those that characterized the much-publicized mauling this past winter by two retired entertainment chimps of a visitor to a California sanctuary.
 ''They will take an instant like or dislike to different people,'' Ragan told me, ''especially if they're loud, or if they talk to them in a certain way, or if they're domineering. Whenever Roger sees a tall, white-haired man of a certain type of build, he becomes incredibly frightened and goes into a screaming rage, banging his head. There's something in his history. It just sets him off. Sometimes, in the middle of the night here, when I have all the surveillance cameras on in the different enclosures, I'll get up for a drink of water, and I'll see Roger just sitting up alone in the dark, holding on to his cage, rocking.''

Monkey Purgatory
I witnessed pathologies similar to Roger's in the spring among the inhabitants of a former biomedical research facility known as the Coulston Foundation in Alamogordo, N.M. Each day near dusk on the treeless, sun-bitten outskirts of Alamogordo, the shrieking, cage-rattling clamor of captive chimpanzees fills the high-desert air. Suppertime is the usual catalyst. On the early April evening I showed up there, however, a stiff, unseasonably cold wind stirring dust and tumbleweed, it was the fast-spreading news of my approach that was setting off the occupants. My escort, Carole Noon, and I were still some 75 yards away from Building 700 -- the first in a series of eight long single-story chimp residences that make up Coulston's barrackslike compound -- when the ruckus began, a slow series of hoots quickly swelling to shrill screams followed by intense pounding, the same pattern repeating from building to building, off into the distance.
 ''How's our boy Ollie doing?'' Noon muttered into her walkie-talkie.
 Noon, a husky-voiced woman in her late 40's with piercing blue eyes and long, sandy-blond hair tied back beneath a Save the Chimps cap, was asking after a resident of Building 700 named Oliver, an adolescent male who had the cornea of his right eye badly scratched in a tussle with another chimp and needed to be anesthetized in order to be treated.
 ''Still sleeping,'' came the reply.
 The better part of Building 700's facade was, like all the others at the facility, covered in thick sheets of plastic to hold in heat around the chimps' outer cages during the winter and early spring. I therefore didn't see the advance scout for the building's 59 other chimps until Noon and I were about to enter. He was a massive, thick-limbed male hovering directly above us, clutching to the uppermost reaches of his cell, trying to size me up through the same murky polymer prism that was rendering him a dark apparition, as if from some drug-induced dream.
 ''In the old days,'' Noon explained, ''they couldn't even go out in the cold months. Now they can at least be outside, and we can clean the inner cages.''
 Of the captive chimpanzees in the United States about to enter into retirement, the greatest number of them don't live under federal auspices and are not on the way to Chimp Haven. They reside at the former Coulston Foundation, 260 chimps in all, the lot of them soon to become residents of Noon's Save the Chimps island sanctuary outside Fort Pierce, Fla. A 200-acre patch of former orange groves, the sanctuary is being expanded into a series of 12 three-acre islands to accommodate the influx.
 Noon originally founded Save the Chimps back in 1997 when the United States Air Force -- which had been leasing its flight-training chimps to research labs since the early 70's -- decided to get out of the chimp business altogether. Offering its surplus inventory up for bids, the Air Force awarded most of the chimps to Frederick Coulston, a native New Yorker who was among the first scientists in the country to perform toxicology and physiology experiments on primates back in the 1940's. Coulston, who died in 2003, would go on to become the country's primate maven, owning well more than 600 chimps, then roughly half the nation's total, in the mid-90's. Noon, with the support of Jane Goodall and other prominent primatologists like the chimp sign-language specialist Roger Fouts, successfully sued the Air Force for custody of 21 of their former chimps on the grounds that they had not honored a commitment to fully safeguard their welfare. Meanwhile, she raised more than $2 million to erect her Fort Pierce sanctuary to house the chimps she had saved.
 In 2002 the Coulston Foundation, having already lost its N.I.H. financing after a series of Animal Welfare Act violations led to the deaths of dozens of chimps, filed for bankruptcy. With the help of a $7 million grant from the Arcus Foundation, a philanthrophic organization with a broad range of causes, Noon acquired the Coulston facility and all 266 of its remaining residents (300 of the others ended up in another private facility). She moved into a 28-foot-long house trailer at the rear of the grounds and with the help of local contractors and Save the Chimps staff members set about trying to soften and brighten the place's many hard, dark edges. Half a million dollars was spent to remodel the cages alone, expanding them outward and upward, with overhead ''penthouses'' allowing the chimps their first views of the sky and of the nearby Sacramento Mountains. In the two and a half years since Noon took over, fairly hellish quarters have been upgraded to a kind of primate purgatory, where the occupants now await deliverance to their future island paradise.
 ''So,'' Noon said, showing me through the entrance to Building 700, ''you ready to be horrified?''
 Seated before me on the cement floor of a narrow, rank-smelling ante-room to Building 700's main chimp cell block were Jocelyn Bezner, the staff veterinarian, and the staff caregiver, Jen Feuerstein, the two of them staring through the bars of a portable pen at the soundly sleeping Oliver. Bezner was holding one of Oliver's huge black, leathery fingers, which jutted out between the bars. I slowly sidled up to the cage and -- I suppose because I could -- grabbed another finger, gently squeezing the weighty, inordinate humanness of it.
 Through the pair of swinging doors just behind us, Oliver's mates had by now worked themselves up into a full-fledged frenzy. Noon opened one of the doors to say hello and try to settle things down a bit. Inside was a picture of true bedlam: opposing rows of cages, 12 deep, chimps everywhere swaying and dashing, whooping and screeching. A chimp named Devon seemed to be the maestro of the mayhem, grabbing hold of the bars of the cage nearest the door, madly thrusting toward and away from them, screaming.
 Just then I felt Oliver's finger twitch slightly in my palm, and suddenly he was sitting bolt upright, eyes wide. His face was fixed in a kind of hysterical grin that gradually expanded, as if trying to get more air, into a soundless, slow-motion version of a chimp's fright scream, finally culminating in a series of short, breathy, high-pitched squeals.
 ''It's O.K, it's O.K.,'' Bezner kept repeating to him softly, and then once more to the rest of us. ''He's just hallucinating.''
 After a few moments, Oliver tilted back over to sleep, in spite of Building 700's racket. Noon signaled that we should leave to let things simmer down. As we were headed toward the door, Bezner went over to Devon's cell and in a beautiful, clear soprano, began bringing Devon and his fellow cellmates back down to earth with the Irving Berlin standard ''Cheek to Cheek'': ''Heaven, I'm in heaven. . . . ''
 Chimps crave such attention. They also will go out of their way to get it, as I learned firsthand during the following day's tour. We started at the compound's former breeding building, Building 300, referred to now by Save the Chimps staff members simply as the dungeon. It was a similar arrangement of long, opposing rows of adjacent cement and steel cages, enclosures that, before Noon's modest renovations, were only slightly larger than the minimum 5 feet by 5 feet by 7 feet required, to this day, by federal law for the lifelong keeping of animals that grow as tall as 5 feet and weigh as much as 200 pounds. ''O.K., picture these cages,'' Noon said, narrating her way down the central corridor, ''but without penthouses, without the windows, without the hammocks, without the blankets, without the toys, without any enrichment. Just steel and cement boxes.''
 Before we went in, Noon had us wait outside the set of rolling chain link gates at the head of the Building 300's cell block so that staff members could get the chimps to their outside cells, thus clearing the way for our passing. The building's occupants, however, were proving to be somewhat uncooperative that afternoon.
 ''Oh, no!,'' Noon said, scrunching up her shoulders and then calmly starting away from the front gates, revealing the feces-splattered back of her blue denim work shirt. Plum, a female chimp in one of the first cages, had somehow managed to peg Noon through an opening in the gates no wider than a foot. Within seconds, a worker at the back of the building was struggling his way toward us, head down, arms flailing, Plum's successful strike having set off a feces-flinging and water-spitting maelstrom. Chimps are remarkably good shots with both.
 ''They don't really like it,'' Noon said, dropping her work shirt into a washing machine in a staff laundry room just around the corner. ''Any normal chimp I know wipes their foot off when they step in it. But these chimps? Well . . . when you start thinking this is fun, it suggests a deep disturbance, and it's sick.''
 Before heading back that afternoon to the Save the Chimps headquarters, where I'd avail myself of the staff lavatory for a quick stand-up bath, Noon took me to see the small cinder-block building in which toxicology experiments had been conducted. Inside were two large, adjacent cages. One side of each cage could collapse inward, making the cage about the width of a chimp, to facilitate the injection of whatever drug or disease was being tested. As I was peering inside one of the cages, Noon shut the building door. The place went pitch dark.
 ''O.K.,'' she said. ''Your number's up. You're called in for research. If you're lucky you've got a guy next door. You've got a squeezable cage and you're getting a drug in ever increasing doses to see what happens. And that's your life.''
 As we were leaving, Noon noticed me staring at the only other fixture in the room, what looked for all the world like one of those elevated, wall-mounted TV stands you see in hospital rooms.
 ''You got it,'' Noon said, walking off. ''That was their enrichment. It's amazing they're not more maniacal than they are.''

The Research Quandary
''That one there is a chimpanzee brain,'' Patrick Hof, a professor of neuroscience at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan told me one afternoon this past winter, the two of us standing in a giant walk-in cooler of brains just down the hallway from his office. On the same shelf as the chimp brain (''about half the size of an adult human's,'' as Hof described it) were those of gorillas and orangutans, each one adrift in glass containers of formaldehyde. On a separate set of shelves at the rear of the cooler was an assortment of marine-animal brains: dolphin, porpoise, killer whale. Just below them, at the base of a huge Rubbermaid garbage pail, was a sperm-whale brain, like the one housed in Moby-Dick's skull. It was about the circumference of a cafe table. On the shelves opposite the chimp and gorilla specimens were a number of human ones.
 An expert in aging and its effects on the brain, Hof is an unexpected beneficiary of today's chimp boom. Chimps in captivity live about twice as long as those in the wild do. Males in the wild rarely make it to 30, owing to the wilderness's daily stresses and conflicts. Most captive chimps, by contrast, are now not only reaching human retirement ages; they are also developing all the same attendant ailments: arthritis, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, obesity. Everything, it seems, except for brain disorders like Alzheimer's and dementia.
 ''They prove to be a real problem of geriatric veterinary medicine,'' Hof explained, referring to the aged chimps, ''and yet at the same time they offer an extraordinary opportunity for us to learn more about the evolution of aging. And it may well be a unique opportunity, because I don't think there will be that many more generations of chimpanzees behind the current ones, because it's just too complicated and expensive to keep them.''
 In fact, our increasing appreciation of the chimpanzee's bioevolutionary complexity may be bringing us to the point where the most significant knowledge we can gain from chimps is best obtained simply by letting them be themselves, either in what's left of their natural habitat or in or our best re-creations of it. In a sense, the saga of our keeping of the chimps has now come full circle. The chimps themselves have become the edifying mirror of the old ape houses. They are offering us the best view into our own nature. Indeed, much of the work being done now with chimps is focused on behavioral and neurological science, where researchers from a variety of disciplines, from evolutionary biology to neurology, are often engaged in observational studies in which the healthier and more natural the environment is for the chimp, the more reliable and useful are the results.
 For some, however, the chimp remains an indispensable tool for medical research, and some have expressed fears that by endorsing the retirement of even a select number of chimps, the government might be opening the doors to their removal from research altogether. Stuart Zola, director of the Yerkes National Primate Research Center, fully supports animal sanctuaries but argues that there will always be a need to study chimpanzees. ''The only thing we can predict with certainty is that there are going to be new epidemics that will arise, as they have throughout history, and the chimp is going to be a unique animal model.''
 Joe Erwin, a former curator of primates at the Brookfield Zoo in suburban Chicago, who for the past three years has worked as an independent consultant to research labs looking to improve their facilities, also cites the continuing importance of chimps for research. ''That chimpanzees can be surplus to research needs strikes me as quite unlikely and shortsighted,'' he told me. ''It is my impression that there is no chimpanzee on earth from which humans cannot learn something useful -- without in any way compromising the health or well-being of any individual chimpanzee.''
 There are several major facilities that still have chimpanzees -- Yerkes; Southwest in San Antonio; the Alamogordo Primate Facility situated on the grounds of the Holloman Air Force Base some 15 miles from the former Coulston Foundation; the Michale E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research in Bastrop, Tex.; Bioqual, a biomedical facility in Rockville, Md.; and the New Iberia Research Center in Louisiana, the world's largest chimpanzee lab. Of these, not one is quite so bleak as the former Coulston Foundation. Each has made efforts to give chimps at least some outdoor access and group interaction, as well as various enrichment and behavioral care from trained primatologists.
 Still, both the Alamogordo Primate Facility and New Iberia have been targets of recent lawsuits involving animal rights violations, and both cases are still pending. And while overall standards at research facilities have been improving over the years, there is no getting around the inherent constraints and hardships on both the chimps and those who work with them on a daily basis. It is no coincidence that a number of the people now involved in the retiring of chimps were former employees of research labs. ''Most people end up leaving because they can't do it anymore,'' Jen Feuerstein, a former staff member at Yerkes, told me. ''They can't be the bad guy anymore. If a chimp is on study, you have to participate. You have to separate a young chimp from its mother and send him or her to the main center for research. A lot of people sort of seal themselves off and stop caring because it's too painful to care. They go and do the bare minimum to keep the chimps alive, and then they go home.''
 There is no handy list of the dividends gained over the years from chimp research, and many of the results are mixed. In the early 1930's, long before ethical restrictions were imposed on research techniques, a good number of chimps were sacrificed to various brain-mapping and other invasive approaches that yielded a great deal of early data on the evolution of the primate brain. On the other hand, notwithstanding the early heroics of the Air Force's chimpanauts, it is most likely that the space program would have gone ahead as planned without them, as would the use of seat belts, for the early trials of which a number of Air Force chimps were reportedly used as living crash-test dummies in the early 60's.
 In 1996, after several injections with H.I.V., one chimp at Yerkes named Jerome did finally develop AIDS, but it was a mutated strain that proved to be of little value in the search for a cure in humans. Jerome became so sick that he was eventually euthanized. Important information, however, was gained in early testing about the pathogenesis of the disease and the use of therapeutic antibodies, and a limited number of previously infected chimps are still being used for H.I.V. research in an attempt to understand precisely why chimpanzees are so resistant to developing AIDS, information that could prove of some use to humans. But one of the greatest recent rewards of chimp research has been the hepatitis-B vaccine. Strides are also currently being made toward developing vaccines for hepatitis C and respiratory syncytial virus (R.S.V.), which is potentially lethal in newborn babies.
 ''In an ideal world they'd all be swinging in the forests of Africa,'' McGrew, the field primatologist, said to me. ''But I can understand how they got into labs, and I'd be a hypocrite if I said that I haven't benefited from it. I take the hepatitis vaccine developed from chimpanzees before I go to Africa to study them.''
 Some scientists, however, say that they believe we might soon effect an ideal solution to the chimp-research quandary, thanks to some of the very technological advances that chimps have helped to foster. For instance, scientists at Washington University in St. Louis and M.I.T. are completing the mapping of an entire chimp genome. It belonged to a chimp named Clint, a longtime Yerkes resident who recently died of heart disease. Many scientists now say that the use of the DNA database and human tissue samples will obviate the need for research on chimps or any other animal, the results of which, they argue, are often misleading and inapplicable to humans. The recently appointed scientific director of Europeans for Medical Progress, Jarrod Bailey, is now leading a campaign to end research on animals, not on the basis of animal rights but rather on the grounds that such methods are by and large archaic and have prevented scientists from making the best use of new technologies.
 ''We are a very technological species,'' Carole Noon said to me at Save the Chimps in Alamogordo. ''We can come up with something better. Something less cruel.''

Looking at the Stars
Every other week or so from now until early next winter, a specially outfitted trailer like the ones that delivered Rita and Teresa and their fellow research chimps to Chimp Haven will make the two-and-a-half-day journey from the former Coulston Foundation in New Mexico to Noon's island paradise outside Fort Pierce, Fla., delivering 10 chimps at a time until all 260 have been transported.
 The day after my tour of Coulston, I flew with Noon to Florida to have a look at her compound there. Set in the midst of a flat expanse of orange groves and swampland is a huge island of verdant knolls, jungle-gym platforms, suspended catwalks and earthen culverts, dotted with shrubbery and trees and huge black blobs, which, as we pulled up in a golf cart to one fenced-off corner of the island, suddenly began to move, gamboling toward us in near-upright, front-fisted strides.
 ''Just to have that option of running,'' Noon said, gesturing at the chimps. ''That's what tickles me so much about this property. It's one of the prettiest places in all of Florida, and guess who's moving in. Not rich people.''
 I found it a bit disconcerting at first to see the chimps in such a setting. It wasn't just the complete anomaly of chimpanzees swinging and striding against a backdrop of Florida orange trees. Somehow getting even the merest glimpse into their actual selves only further distinguishes them and diminishes us. A diminishment accentuated, in this case, by the fact that these chimps appeared to be so much larger than the ones back in New Mexico, for the most part because they've all got most of their health and hair back.
 ''That guy Waylan,'' Noon said, pointing to an outsize male muscling his way toward us, then settling alongside a female named Dana, ''is the largest chimp I've ever known. And the sweetest. Waylan is very shy. Born in captivity. Didn't know how to be around other chimps. So when it was time to get Waylan to meet somebody, I said to myself, Who out of all these people can he meet? And I thought, Dana. She's 42, born in Africa, and she's so socially sophisticated. So nice. So I open the door to let them meet. Waylan's afraid. She climbs up and sits in the doorway. She looks at Waylan and literally takes his chin in her hand and lifts his face so he can look at her. That's Dana. She is the queen.''
 Lunch hour for the Save the Chimps staff members that afternoon soon gave way to lunch hour for the chimps. We were sitting at a picnic table beside the compound's headquarters when Noon stood up and clanged an old-fashioned ranch dinner bell hanging from a post just overhead. She waited a moment and rang it again.
 ''That did it,'' she said. ''Here they come.''
 Off in the distance, we could see the black blobs move again, row upon row of them, coming across the island's grassy mounds, past the strung catwalks and huge platform jungle gyms, toward the chimps' central housing quarters. Noon and I and some of the staff members started over to meet them. Once all the chimps had made their way inside, the feasting began, chunks of fresh cucumbers and carrots and oranges giving off, in stark contrast to Coulston, the strongest aromas in the place.
 ''The difference is pretty amazing,'' said one staff member, Chance French, a former employee of Noon's at Alamogordo. ''A lot of the chimps we bring from New Mexico will be balding. But the minute you bring them here they stop plucking. They stop smearing feces around. It's 100 percent better.''
 French told me that during the back-to-back hurricanes that walloped Florida last year, he and the other staff members took all the chimps there into the main housing quarters and laid in food and blankets and supplies for everyone, and, side by side in adjacent cells, human and chimp rode out the storms together. ''The first hurricane, we were there for two nights,'' he recalled. ''It was a weaker storm but very slow-moving. Kept going and going. The second hurricane was one night. Through both storms, I expected the chimps to be more alarmed, but they were mostly passed out, sleeping, and we were wide awake, glued to the radio.''
 After lunch, Noon made sure all the doors leading back outside from the chimp's housing were secure, so that staff members could clean up the island, much of it strewn with toys, baby dolls, plastic buckets, wheel carts and so on, like a vast kids' playground. Noon took that opportunity to escort me across the island, out to the very center. It felt oddly exhilarating: we were in their place now, on their footing, and on the horizon around us were the 11 other soon-to-be-completed islands, each with its own pastel-hued housing, all the colors bright and upbeat -- ''everything as different from Coulston as possible,'' Noon said. ''No associations.''
 As we started back across the island toward the chimp's quarters, Noon recalled a night back at Coulston when, after the renovations to the cages had been completed, the chimps were allowed to move into their outer enclosures and could see the dark desert sky for the first time. Until then, they had been locked inside each day by 4 p.m. As she sat on the steps of her trailer that night at the back of the facility grounds, Noon said she could hear all of the buildings talking. Everyone was talking.
 ''I understood some of it,'' she said. ''It was, Look at the stars, and Look at the moon, and What do you think all of that is about? and How long is it going to last? But then they started saying something I didn't understand. I struggled to make sense of what it was. And here's what I think they were saying. They were announcing themselves to the world. They were saying, We live here. We exist.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Save the Chimps, a sanctuary for research chimpanzees near Fort Pierce, Fla. Ultimately, 260 chimpanzees, virtually all of them bred in captivity and used for research, will be set free on one of a dozen three-acre islands on the sanctuary grounds.
Room to Live: After years of confinement, many research chimpanzees had never climbed a tree. Researchers at the Save the Chimps facility were relying on the few that were captured in Africa to recall their days in the wild as ''kids'' and teach the others.
Primate Purgatory: The chimpanzee pens at the Coulston Foundation, a former biomedical research facility in Alamogordo, N.M. The facility (and more than 200 chimpanzee residents) was acquired in 2002 by the Save the Chimps Foundation. The chimpanzees are being relocated to the sanctuary in Florida.
 Chimp Haven, one of the new breed of chimpanzee sanctuaries, under construction in Shreveport, La. The few chimps that were there were not yet acclimated to the new environment and could not be photographed. (Photographs by Alec Soth/Magnum Photos, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMATES (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); MAMMALOGY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ZOOLOGY (77%); ANIMALS (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); BIOMEDICINE (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (57%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (50%) Monkeys and Apes; Chimp Haven (Shreveport, La); Save the Chimps (Fort Pierce, Fla); Coulter Foundation (Alamagordo, NM); Monkeys and Apes

PERSON: Charles Siebert

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (91%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



453 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Adjuntas Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Coffee Growers Try to Revive a Toast of Cafe Society

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Ariana Green contributed reporting from San Juan, P.R., for this article.

DATELINE: ADJUNTAS, P.R. 

 BODY:
Long before Starbucks and even Sanka, the coffee produced in this cool mountain region was internationally beloved -- so much that Puerto Rico, barely the size of Connecticut, was among the world's largest, proudest coffee exporters. The cafes of Vienna, Paris and Madrid served Puerto Rican coffee in the 19th century, as did European monarchs and even the Vatican.
 But while short and sturdy coffee trees still flourish on parts of the island, it is hard to find Puerto Rican coffee anywhere now.
 Puerto Rico does not even produce enough to meet its own demand, forcing the island to buy beans from other countries. Up to a quarter of the annual harvest goes to waste, mostly because of one problem: nobody likes picking coffee beans, and there are far more appealing options for work these days. 
 Rural Puerto Ricans who might once have picked beans for a living have sought better opportunities in the mainland United States, where the Puerto Rican population roughly equals the 3.9 million people living on the island. And as Puerto Rico has evolved into an industrial economy from an agricultural one, low-wage workers have come to prefer factory or construction jobs -- available even in remote mountain towns -- that pay more and demand less. 
 ''I picked coffee one time,'' said Julio Torres, executive vice president of Grupo Jimenez, the island's leading coffee company. ''I lasted six hours, and I never picked coffee again.'' 
 So bleak are the industry's prospects that last month, Puerto Rico's new agriculture secretary, Jose Orlando Fabre, held a coffee summit with other cabinet members and the mayors of 21 coffee-growing towns, mostly in the island's rugged interior. Mr. Fabre decided to try putting prisoners and the unemployed to work as pickers, and perhaps even importing pickers from other countries. 
 With the harvesting season beginning next month, Mr. Fabre said the island's 10,000 coffee farms needed at least 5,000 new pickers, and more to increase exports, as he would prefer. Compared with giants like Brazil and Colombia, the Puerto Rican coffee industry is but a blip; the island produces about 20 million pounds of coffee a year, compared with more than 3 billion pounds in Brazil, the world's largest producer. 
 Exports plummeted after Spain ceded Puerto Rico to the United States in 1898, partly because the United States was already buying coffee from Brazil and saw sugar, not coffee, as the island's most potentially lucrative crop. The coffee industry in Puerto Rico is subsidized and supported by the government, which sets prices and imposes a high tariff on imported beans to protect local farmers.
 A series of brutal hurricanes further curbed production, and from 1965 to 1990, exports stopped altogether. But as the specialty coffee market has boomed in the last decade, a few farmers and businessmen here, including Mr. Torres, have tried to restore the renown of Puerto Rican coffee. 
 They saw their opening after a hurricane battered the Blue Mountain region of Jamaica in 1990 and when Japan, where Jamaican coffee is coveted, came looking for Puerto Rican beans instead. 
 ''We realized there were people willing to pay a premium for a good coffee,'' Mr. Torres said at his coffee-processing plant in Ponce. ''Until then, we were keeping the best coffee in the world for ourselves, not for others.'' 
 For the most part, they still are. Puerto Rico exported only about 2 million pounds of coffee last year, according to its Department of Agriculture, a fraction of the nearly 60 million pounds shipped in the late 1800's.
 Mr. Torres and others in the industry want to reverse this trend, but not all are supporting the prisoners-as-pickers plan. Mr. Torres said prisoners would be too lazy and unqualified for the job, which requires standing on steep inclines six to eight hours a day, plucking thousands of coffee berries as insects swarm and bite, and carrying them in heavy containers around the waist.
 ''It's easier for them to stay in their prison than collect the coffee,'' Mr. Torres said. ''It's a skill you need to learn in your hands and your feet.'' 
 His idea is to recruit migrant farmworkers from the southeastern United States, where most harvesting is finished by October, just in time for the peak of the Puerto Rican coffee harvest. Migrant workers also come from coffee-producing countries like Mexico and Guatemala, and could be experienced pickers. The question is whether the Puerto Rican government will pay to fly in workers and house them for the season. 
 Mr. Fabre said his plan would be more feasible than importing pickers from Central and South American countries, who would need visas and working papers. He said that he would seek meetings with agriculture secretaries of Southern states to discuss the idea, but that meanwhile he would experiment with sending minimum-security prisoners to a few coffee farms this fall. 
 ''It needs to be proven that they will work well alongside others,'' he said.
 Although Grupo Jimenez's premium brand, Yauco Selecto, is exported to Israel, New Zealand, China and most of Europe, the dwindling production and high cost make Puerto Rican coffee as rare as saffron. 
 The price of coffee grown and sold on the island is heavily regulated to protect the industry, and at $3.46 a pound, it has not changed in over a decade. Off the island, though, Puerto Rican coffee is far more expensive than the world market average because of the high production costs. As an American commonwealth, Puerto Rico is subject to a minimum wage and strict environmental standards. At the Porto Rico Importing Company in New York, Yauco Selecto sells for $11.99 a pound, the costliest after Jamaican Blue Mountain at $29 and Hawaiian Kona at $24.95. 
 Kenneth Davids, founder of the online magazine Coffee Review, said in an e-mail message that the best Puerto Rican coffee was ''full bodied, roundly sweet, with low but vibrant acidity,'' not unlike the finest Blue Mountain varieties. But it can have a disappointing mustiness, Mr. Davids said, probably because of delays in drying the beans. It is a low-key coffee with subtle virtues, he added, making careful preparation all the more important.
 Carmen Alamo, an agriculture professor at the University of Puerto Rico, said census data suggested that coffee farms between 20 and 100 acres were downsizing, probably because of the labor shortage. ''We think that they are now instead trying to plant small areas that their labor force could tend to,'' Ms. Alamo said.
 But Mr. Fabre said most farms still produced more than they might be able to harvest in hopes of finding enough pickers to at least fill the island's own cups. Beyond that, Mr. Torres said he saw potential for new markets in Asia and Australia. Mr. Fabre said he had even talked to the Department of Defense about buying Puerto Rican coffee, possibly starting this year for its submarine fleet.
 None of this will come to pass, though, unless the island finds thousands more pickers, a prospect that Mr. Torres, unsentimental as he is about the job, doubts. 
 ''Maybe they can train monkeys to do it,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In New York City, Puerto Rican coffee sells for about $12 a pound.
 Elizabeth Acevedo harvests coffee beans at a farm in Adjuntas, P.R. Much of the annual harvest goes to waste because of a shortage of pickers. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)Map of Puerto Rico highlighting Adjuntas: Puerto Rico's coffee is mostly grown in the central highlands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (93%); FARM LABOR (90%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MAYORS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); WEATHER (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RELIGION (56%) Coffee; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%) Puerto Rico 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



454 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4504 words

HEADLINE: The Rabbi Who Loved Evangelicals (And Vice Versa)

BYLINE: By Zev Chafets. 
Zev Chafets is a founding editor of The Jerusalem Report magazine, the author of several books and a columnist for The Daily News.

 BODY:
'This guy is a kingdom guy,'' said the Rev. Steve Munsey, gesturing toward Yechiel Eckstein. We were sitting in the greenroom of the Family Christian Center in Munster, Ind., about 40 minutes from Chicago. We were between Sunday-morning services, and Pastor Munsey was taking a break, kicking back to welcome his guest. ''What do I mean by kingdom guy?'' he said. ''Like a godfather in the Mafia, it's a term of respect.'' 
 Eckstein accepted the compliment with a smile and sipped his coffee (from the church's own Starbucks). Eckstein has spent a professional lifetime in evangelical churches, although he had rarely seen one as grand as the Family Christian Center, with its 5,000-seat auditorium and a pulpit that boasts a theatrical replica of biblical Jerusalem complete with Golgotha's hill and, in the words of Pastor Munsey, ''a very lifelike cave depicting the tomb where Jesus was lain.''
 A lanky deacon came over to shake Eckstein's hand and said, ''It's a thrill to meet a man like you.'' Eckstein smiled. The deacon is said to be one of the biggest steel contractors in America. Devout Christian laypeople like him have built Eckstein an empire. 
 ''I support Israel in every way possible,'' Munsey said. ''For example, I make it a point to buy my clothes from Jews.'' Since he was wearing jeans and a battered sports jacket, it was hard to assess the monetary value of this contribution. Munsey was dressed informally because he planned to ride his customized Harley motorcycle onto the pulpit. The bike is named the Passion, and it has a crown of thorns painted across it.
 The door opened, and Bishop Frank Munsey walked in. He is Pastor Munsey's father. Bishop Munsey founded the Christian Family Center 50 years ago and then passed it along to his son. Someday Pastor Munsey will turn it over to his own son, Kent, who is now the center's youth pastor. ''We call it the Levitical order of succession,'' David Jordan Allen, the associate pastor, told me. Pastor Munsey made the introductions. ''Meet Rabbi Einstein,'' he said to his father, misspeaking. ''You've seen him on TV. He's the head of the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews.''
 ''You from the Jewish side or the Christian side?'' the elderly bishop asked. Lately he had been spending a good deal of time in Bulgaria, where the church runs a mission school that is waiting for a license.
 ''Jewish,'' Eckstein said, touching his small black skullcap. 
 This struck the bishop as a stroke of luck. He seemed to be under the impression that Jews govern Bulgaria and had been involved in withholding accreditation from his school. Now here was a rabbi sitting right in the greenroom. ''I'd like to ask you a favor,'' he said, handing Eckstein a card. ''Maybe you can get somewhere with these Bulgarians.''
 Eckstein took the card and put it in his pocket. Help the born-again Christians of Bulgaria? Who knows, maybe he could.
In the past 25 years, Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein has traveled to China to liberate persecuted pastors, hiked through Ethiopia and Siberia in search of vulnerable Jews, advised prime ministers in Jerusalem and met with evangelical Republicans at the White House. His immediate plans include transporting an entire biblical lost tribe from northeastern India to the Holy Land and starting a Spanish-language ministry for the Pentecostals of Latin America. He has even talked about recording some sacred hymns with Debby Boone. And, as Eckstein himself might say, God only knows what he'll do after that.
 All this hyperactivity is financed by the contributions of evangelical Christians. In the last eight years alone, an estimated 400,000 born-again donors have sent Eckstein about a quarter of a billion dollars for Jewish causes of his personal choosing. No Jew since Jesus has commanded this kind of gentile following. 
 This success has, of course, bred detractors. Some of Eckstein's fellow Orthodox rabbis would like to exile him for consorting with Christians. Eckstein is a registered Democrat, but there are liberal Jews who view his friendship with Red State evangelical conservatives like Pat Robertson, Ralph Reed and Gary Bauer as cultural and political treason. Even those who applaud Eckstein's philanthropies are sometimes skeptical about what he calls his ''ministry.'' For Jews, who are used to seeing themselves as victims of bigotry, the saga of Yechiel Eckstein raises uncomfortable questions about who loves -- and who hates -- whom.
He didn't start out to be controversial. The son of the chief rabbi of Canada, Eckstein, 54, received his own rabbinical ordination from Yeshiva University in New York and joined the staff of the Anti-Defamation League. In those early days, he was the model of a mainstream Jewish organization man.
 In 1977, American Nazis threatened to stage a march in Skokie, Ill., a Chicago suburb with a large population of Holocaust survivors. The A.D.L. sent Eckstein from New York to help the local community round up Christian support. What he found surprised him. In his next year in Chicago, he discovered that the evangelicals, more than any other group, were prepared to stand with the Jews.
 Eckstein reported back to New York like Marco Polo recalling his adventures in China. There were Christians in the heartland, he said, who took the Bible literally and believed that the Jews were God's chosen people. They were, he said, a vast untapped reservoir of support for Israel, Soviet Jewry and other Jewish causes. This report was greeted hesitantly. Few A.D.L. people had ever met an evangelical Christian face to face, but they had seen ''Elmer Gantry'' and ''Inherit the Wind,'' and they associated Bible Belt Christians with snake charmers, K.K.K. nightriders, toothless fiddlers and flat-earth troglodytes. 
 In 1980, the head of the Southern Baptist Convention, the Rev. Bailey Smith, seemed to confirm this stereotype when he publicly declared that ''God Almighty does not hear the prayer of a Jew.'' The grandees of the Jewish establishment were outraged, but Eckstein saw an opportunity. He contacted Smith and offered to accompany him on a trip to Israel.
 In Jerusalem, Smith and Eckstein were given the royal treatment. Prime Minister Menachem Begin, having previously lost seven straight national elections, had few illusions about the efficacy of Jewish prayer. He did, however, have a keen appreciation for Christians like Smith, who believed that the Bible conferred title to the land of Israel on the Jews. Smith enjoyed being appreciated, and he returned home loudly proclaiming Genesis 12:3: God will bless those who bless Israel and curse those who curse Israel.
 ''That was the turning point,'' Eckstein says. ''From that moment on, I had an open door to the biggest Baptist churches in the country.''
 The following year, Israel bombed the Iraqi nuclear reactor at Osirak. An editorial in The New York Times called the strike ''an act of inexcusable and shortsighted aggression.'' Even the normally pro-Israel Reagan administration criticized it. But the evangelicals saw the hand of God and cheered. When Eckstein called this kind of support to the attention of the A.D.L. home office, he was treated like a nudnik. If Menachem Begin wanted to cozy up to Bailey Smith and Jerry Falwell and other such undesirables, well, that was Begin's problem. Eckstein was told to commune with some respectable Episcopalians.
 But Eckstein knew what he knew. He quit the A.D.L. and tried, unsuccessfully, to interest other mainstream Jewish groups in establishing relations with the evangelicals. He didn't even bother asking his fellow Orthodox rabbis, many of whom considered (and still consider) merely setting foot in a church to be a grave sin.
 Unemployed, Eckstein established his own organization, which he grandly dubbed the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews. Soon he was making the rounds of fundamentalist and Pentecostal churches, preaching a gospel of Jewish-evangelical solidarity. By this time, American Jewry had been thoroughly worked over by enterprising fund-raisers. But Eckstein found himself in virgin territory. Evangelicals badly wanted to express their love for Israel in a personal way. It was Eckstein's insight that nothing is more personal than a personal check.
''Ask and it shall be given you,'' says Matthew 7:7. When Eckstein started I.F.C.J., he had no salary, no medical benefits and a pregnant wife. (Today he has three grown daughters and draws an annual salary of about $300,000.) His first headquarters was the back room of a lawyer's office. To make ends meet, he took a job as a part-time rabbi at a local synagogue.
 Early on, some money came in from Zionist Christians, but he received the majority of his donations from fellow Jews -- mostly politically minded men who saw the growing importance of the Moral Majority and Pat Robertson's 700 Club. Often these gifts were grudgingly given. ''I don't know what you're doing, and I don't know if I like what you're doing,'' a Jewish philanthropist from Chicago said, but he handed Eckstein a thousand bucks just in case he was on to something. 
 Eckstein's big breakthrough came in 1993. The gates of the former Soviet Union were open, and tens of thousands of poor Jews wanted to immigrate to Israel. He knew that the ingathering of Jewish exiles resonated with evangelicals as biblical prophecy, and with a $25,000 contribution from a Jewish supporter in Anchorage, he recorded his first TV infomercial.
 The 30-minute show promoting Eckstein's ''On Wings of Eagles'' project was narrated, pro bono, by Pat Boone, who delivered a message from Isaiah 49:22. ''I will beckon to the Gentiles. . . . They will bring your sons in their arms and carry your daughters on their shoulders.'' The infomercial appeared throughout America, mostly on Christian stations.
 The results were amazing. Money began pouring in. ''When I told Pat Robertson how much people were sending, he thought I was totally inflating the numbers,'' Eckstein recalls.
 The infomercial eventually ran all over the country for 18 months and raised millions of dollars. Yechiel Eckstein was on his way.
The auditorium of the Family Christian Center was packed for the second service. Munster is largely white, but the church markets itself aggressively in nearby Gary, which is predominantly black. Like Pastor Munsey, the minister of music is white, but the choir is mostly black, and it started things off with a rousing rendition of ''God Bless America,'' while giant screens projected scenes of American troops in Iraq. Allen, the associate pastor, estimates that roughly 60 percent of the members of the Family Christian Center are Republicans. ''A lot of the African-Americans came as Democrats, but some of them are turning Republican, too,'' he told me. 
 The choir struck up ''Amazing Grace,'' and Munsey, who was sitting next to me in the front pew, rose to take the pulpit on foot. (The Harley ride would come later.) As he passed me, he leaned down and whispered: ''I have a passion for healing. We have one of the highest rates of cancer healings in the nation in this church.'' 
 Munsey is a shaggy-haired man of 50, and he is a showman. This morning, along with his Harley ride, he offered a warranty on tithing. ''If God doesn't pay you back, with increase, in 90 days, then I'll refund the money myself,'' he promised. Israeli flags appeared on the huge screens above the pulpit, and Munsey summoned his guest. ''Yek-eel Epstein is a powerful giant,'' he said, butchering the name. ''He rates right up there. You've seen him on TV. He was a rabbi, and he became a born-again Christian!''
 Eckstein, sitting nearby, visibly blanched. For decades, Orthodox critics have accused him of being a closet Christian. He told me that a few years ago four senior rabbis convened a court in New York to try him for the crime of ''teaching Torah to gentiles.'' He was acquitted in a split decision, but he recalls it as one of the most humiliating moments of his life. 
 Nor did the verdict end the muttering. As Eckstein has grown more powerful, he has attracted ever harsher criticism from parts of the Orthodox community from which he came and whose good opinion he covets. Just a few days earlier, The Jewish Observer, the house magazine of the ultra-Orthodox organization Agudath Israel of America, called his work ''a curse.'' And here he was, sitting next to a reporter as he was being introduced as a born-again Christian. ''This has never happened to me before,'' he muttered, rising. ''I've got to do something.''
 Eckstein appeared perfectly composed as he took the pulpit. He has the physical presence of an Eagle Scout troop leader -- tall, broad-shouldered and boyishly friendly. ''Shalom,'' he called to the congregation.
 ''Shalom,'' everyone replied.
 ''Come on, I can't hear you -- give me a 'shalom' they can hear all the way to Jerusalem,'' he implored. Eckstein's blandly sincere tone is a style not at all suited to the call-and-response of the charismatic evangelical church, but he is one of God's chosen people, and that was enough to stir the congregation into a loud ''Shalom!''
 Sunday services in megachurches like the Family Christian Center are tightly scripted. Giant or not, Eckstein had just five minutes. (He would have another 10 at the third service.) He began with damage control. ''I'm a Jewish rabbi,'' he informed the congregation. ''An Orthodox Jewish rabbi. I believe in a Messiah, but I am an Orthodox Jewish rabbi.'' The congregation applauded, and Eckstein smiled broadly, relieved to have re-established his kosher bona fides without insulting either Munsey or Jesus.
 Eckstein thanked the congregation for its support of Israel. Although he still spends much of his time in Chicago, he became an Israeli citizen in 2002 and has an office in Jerusalem with a staff of 10 that hands out millions to charity projects around the country, from mobile dental clinics to costly antiterror devices for government use. In December 2003, the Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz listed the I.F.C.J. as the second-largest charitable foundation in the country. Such largess has not gone unnoticed by Israeli politicians. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon made Eckstein an unofficial adviser, and he is being courted by Sharon's rivals with the offer of more formal appointments.
 There is a huge digital clock mounted on the face of the Family Center's balcony, and at the stroke of five minutes, Munsey took back his pulpit. ''We're going to plant a seed today,'' he announced, handing Eckstein a check for $5,000. ''Remember, when you bless the Jewish people, God blesses you. So I want you all to tell Rabbi Einstein, 'Thank you, Rabbi!'''
 ''Thank you, Rabbi!'' they hollered, as Eckstein pocketed the donation.
''I had them at 'shalom,''' Eckstein said. We were on our way back to Chicago in a rented compact Chevy, with Eckstein in back and his assistant, the Rev. Jerry Clark, at the wheel. (Eckstein doesn't own a car and, conscious of not being too showy, always rents compacts.) Eckstein's self-mockery is one way he struggles against the sin of pride. But there's a measure of satisfaction as well.
 Many of the Jews who once derided Eckstein for depending on the kindness of strangers now want to be his best friends. Hadassah, the women's organization whose magazine once refused to run his paid advertisements, is working with him on a joint project. A few years ago the head of the Jewish Agency for Israel refused to be photographed taking a check from Eckstein. Today, Eckstein is a member of the agency's board. Colleagues in the modern Orthodox Rabbinical Council of America who once ignored him now seek him out, and last year (despite a protest by some leading rabbis) he was invited to address the council's annual meeting.
 Naturally, a lot of his erstwhile skeptics also want to know the secret to tapping the evangelical bankroll. In April, Eckstein attended a conference of major Jewish philanthropies in Las Vegas, but when fund-raisers there asked him to share his strategies, he tactfully demured.
 Talking about it on the drive back to Chicago, he was less tactful. ''These evangelicals are pure,'' he said, gesturing out the window to the Indiana countryside. ''I represent the Jewish people to them. And I know very well how cynical some of these Jewish fund-raisers are. They're just in it for the buck. I should let them manipulate evangelicals like that?''
 Sentiments like this help to explain why not everyone in the Jewish establishment has been won over. Abraham Foxman, the national director of the A.D.L., remains one of Eckstein's most prominent critics. Foxman has accused him of ''selling the dignity of the Jewish people'' by pandering to Christians. ''We're not a poor people,'' Foxman told The Jerusalem Report. ''What he's doing is perverse.''
 But Eckstein has no apologies for his support from Christians. ''I consider what I do more than fund-raising,'' he said. ''It's a ministry. Evangelicals don't give like Jews. Jews give out of communal obligation. They say: 'Send me a letter and a tax-deduction statement, and I'll give you something. If I have a good year, I'll up my contribution by 5 or 10 percent next time.' Christians find that method abhorrent. They don't give out of responsibility but because the Lord told them to. They're moved to do it.''
 Eckstein has stories to illustrate his point. ''There's a woman who loves Starbucks but buys regular coffee and sends the difference to us,'' he said. ''Kids donate their birthday money and Christmas gifts. One family in Florida sends us $15 every day. They don't feel comfortable sitting down to dinner unless they've helped Jews. These people ask not to publicize their gifts. They feel that the Lord knows who they are and seeking publicity would be wrong.''
 Paradoxically, one of the charges against Eckstein is that he's a publicity hound. He does generally insist that the recipients of I.F.C.J. charity acknowledge its source but says that it's a simple matter of transparency. Eckstein has the power, unique among the heads of major Jewish charities, to write checks at his own discretion, and he wants people to see where their money is going. But he also likes finally being able to take credit for the group's contributions. For years, Eckstein says, he and his Christian donors were treated as invisible by the overlords of the United Jewish Appeal, which took I.F.C.J. contributions without acknowledging the source. Those days are over, but the memory still rankles.
 So does Eckstein's sense of being misunderstood. ''I'm a nonevangelical defender of evangelicals,'' he said. ''Jews have such a cynical, negative view of these people. There are all sorts of crazy conspiracy theories out there about how evangelicals only support Israel to bring on Armageddon or because they want to convert the Jews to Christianity. That's just not true. You saw the people there today,'' he said, pointing backward, toward a rapidly receding Indiana. ''They're not religious fanatics, and they don't have ulterior motives. These are good, religious people who love Israel and want to help. What's the matter with that?''
On a Monday morning the phones were ringing all over the I.F.C.J. headquarters, which are in a downtown skyscraper overlooking the old Chicago City Hall. Some of the callers wanted to make donations. Others just wanted to chat or ask a question. At 10:30, the staff gathered for its weekly meeting. Thirty-odd people, some black and some white, some Jewish and some Christian, crowded into a conference room. ''We're going to need more space soon,'' Eckstein said, sighing. The fellowship has moved three times in recent years, and moving is a drag, but what can you do when your gross is growing at 10 or 15 percent a year?
 The newest staff member at the meeting was Sandy Rios, who was hired a couple of days earlier as vice president for programming. Rios, a former talk-show host in Chicago, had come from Washington, where she served as president of Concerned Women for America, a conservative family-issues group. The meeting was led by George Mamo, an evangelical minister who is Eckstein's second-in-command. With a light touch, he led the staff through reports on the fellowship's activities and major profit centers. The I.F.C.J. has hundreds of thousands of donors to keep track of and cultivate, tours of Israel to plan, infomercial shoots to schedule, educational material to prepare and Israeli products to sell through a Web site, mailings and television. One woman related details of her recent fact-finding trip to Siberia. Another talked about a philanthropy seminar she had attended. 
 Finally, Eckstein rose to speak. He had an announcement. The lost Hebrew tribe of Bnei Menashe had been discovered -- after two and a half millennia -- in northeastern India. Its authenticity had been certified by the Sephardic chief rabbi of Israel. The tribe -- 6,000 strong -- wanted to ''return'' to the Holy Land. Taking them and getting them settled would run about $8 million, and Eckstein had already informed the government of Israel that he would pick up the tab. This news was received by the staff with an affectionate yawn. That's Rabbi Eckstein for you, always coming up with something different. Mamo ended the meeting with a nondenominational prayer, beginning with the ritual Hebrew invocation ''Baruch ata Adonai.''
Transporting 6,000 lost Jews from India to Israel is Indiana Jones stuff, but it is also, inescapably, a political act. Israeli political parties will tussle over patronage of this new voting bloc. Right-wingers will fight to get it housed in the West Bank; left-wingers will try to prevent that. And the Palestinians will condemn the whole exercise as a Zionist trick to upset the demographic balance. If a rabbi can turn 6,000 Indians into biblical Jews and take them to Israel, what's to stop him from finding 600,000 somewhere else?
 Eckstein says he has nothing against Palestinians, but he isn't much bothered by their concerns. He's a Sharon man, though he generally supports any government in power, and he hands out money to the pet projects of politicians from almost all the major parties. ''I've tried to guide my organization in a nonpartisan way,'' he says. 
 Eckstein is in favor of the Sharon plan to remove Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip and a few isolated areas of the West Bank, which puts him to the left of most of his own evangelical flock. Most, according to his internal polling, don't want Israel to leave Gaza or any other territory they regard as part of Abraham's patrimony.
 Eckstein is generally somewhat to the left of his American political allies. As a Democrat, he considers himself ''a Lieberman moderate.'' But while he voted for Al Gore and Joe Lieberman in 2000, he voted for President Bush in 2004. And there is no doubt that Eckstein's evangelical friends and followers are mostly Red State Republicans. Eckstein says that he has never met the president himself, but two years ago he took a delegation of evangelicals to Washington for a meeting with Condoleezza Rice, who was then the national security adviser. The delegation, which according to Eckstein was the only Christian group ever to lobby the White House specifically on behalf of Israel, included Jack Graham, then the president of the Southern Baptist Convention; Richard Land, the Southern Baptists' chief Washington lobbyist; and Ted Haggard, leader of the National Association of Evangelicals. Other luminaries of the Christian right like Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell appear in Eckstein's infomercials. He runs his advocacy group, Stand for Israel, with Ralph Reed and the former G.O.P. presidential aspirant Gary Bauer. And he recently sent out a mass mailing offering a prayer of support for the embattled Republican House majority leader, Tom DeLay. 
At noon that Monday, after the morning meeting, Eckstein, Mamo and Rios gathered over tuna sandwiches in a small conference room for a teleconference with Bauer. The annual Stand for Israel summit meeting in Washington was coming up, and there were plans to make. This year the fellowship was honoring Joe Lieberman and Rudy Giuliani. Eckstein also wanted to discuss whether the fellowship should expand Stand for Israel into a full-fledged lobbying operation along the lines of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.
 Eckstein invited me to ask Bauer a few questions. 
 ''A lot of Jews think Christian support for Israel is a trick,'' I suggested. ''They hear 'evangelical' and think 'anti-Semite.' What do you say to them?''
 ''There's a lot of history we'd like to do over,'' Bauer said smoothly, ''but this is a new era. Today, Jews are safer living in countries where Christianity is vibrant than they are anyplace else.''
 ''What about the Armageddon scenario?'' As Bauer knows, a great many Jews believe that evangelicals want to gather Jews in Israel to bring on the ''End of Days,'' a Book of Revelation big bang that includes the return of Jesus and a Jewish mass conversion.
 Bauer dismissed this as the ''odd belief'' of an insignificant minority. ''Most evangelicals support Israel for national-security reasons,'' he said. ''After 9/11 there is a strong interest in foreign affairs, and we have a tendency to identify Israel as good guys.''
 Eckstein nodded. He says he is certain that evangelical Christians want nothing more than to bless Israel, and he is frustrated by his continuing inability to get his fellow Jews to practice what he calls the Four A's: Awareness that evangelicals are helping Israel; Acknowledgment of that help; Appreciation; and Attitude Change. There has been progress on the first two, and No. 3 is coming along, but attitude change remains elusive. ''I want more than a tactical alliance,'' Eckstein said. ''I'm looking for genuine fellowship. And the Jewish community is nowhere near that.''
 Bauer's analysis of the problem is political. ''A lot of this is hostility from Jews who just can't stand conservatives,'' he said. ''It trumps even their support for Israel.''
 ''Jews tend to demonize evangelicals,'' Eckstein said sadly.
 ''And not the other way around?'' I asked.
 Eckstein shrugged. ''Not really. No.''
 Throughout this conversation, Rios was clearly eager to join in. And as soon as there was a pause in the discussion, she did. ''You know,'' she said, ''the truth is, Christians do want to convert Jews.'' 
 Eckstein and Mamo exchanged glances. ''Not by some bait-and-switch trick,'' she said. ''But we believe it's part of God's plan.'' Eckstein winced the way he had when Pastor Munsey called him a born-again Christian. 
 ''Anyway,'' Rios said, ''we love Jews, notwithstanding their rudeness and hatred for us.''
 Three days later, Eckstein called me in New York. Rios had been fired, but her gaffe, and the impression it made, was still on his mind. ''It's really my fault,'' he said. ''Hiring staff is a problem. Truthfully, it's extremely hard to find people who understand exactly what we're doing here.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An author note on July 24 with an article about Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein included an outdated identification. The writer, Zev Chafets, is no longer a columnist for The Daily News in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rabbi Eckstein, left, and Pastor Munsey at the Family Christian Center in Munster, Ind.
 The peripatetic rabbi (in the lobby of the Family Christian Center) calls himself a ''nonevangelical defender of evangelicals.'' (Photographs by Michael Edwards for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); FAMILY (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); MOTORCYCLES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Christians and Christianity; Jews; Biographical Information; Christians and Christianity

ORGANIZATION: International Fellowship of Christians and Jews

PERSON: Zev Chafets; Yechiel (Rabbi) Eckstein

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (55%); BULGARIA (50%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



455 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: See How the Money Flows. Then Go Upstream.

BYLINE: By ILANA POLYAK

 BODY:
MOST investors try to steer clear of trash. Perhaps that's the wrong strategy.
 Contrarians who track the flow of money into and out of mutual funds say that they can profit by buying fund categories that others shun. In the late 1990's, for example, most fund buyers were buzzing around high-octane growth offerings that emphasized technology. They were selling real estate and small-capitalization value funds, categories that had underperformed.
Those erstwhile losers have become some of the best performers, while many of the former winners have taken a big fall. ''Investors tend to take a ruler to the latest trend chart and draw a straight line up to the future,'' said Russel Kinnel, director of fund research at Morningstar. ''That's pretty dangerous.'' 
 The numbers tell the story. In 1999, according to Lipper, the fund tracker, investors yanked almost a net $12 billion out of real estate funds and about $4 billion from small-cap offerings. But for the last five years through Thursday, real estate was the top-performing fund category. And small-cap value funds were up 15.3 percent, annualized, in the five years through Thursday, versus an average annual decline of 2.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500.
 In retrospect, at least, fund flows foretold the bursting of the dot-com bubble. Money flooded into technology funds for years before the collapse. A net $13.8 billion moved into technology funds in just the month of March 2000, when the Nasdaq reached its peak. Then came the fall: over the last five years, technology funds have been down by an average of 19.1 percent a year.
 The contrarians use many different approaches involving a range of time periods, but they generally advise investors to watch fund flows to see where a majority of buyers are looking, and then to go against that grain. 
 To execute the fund-flows strategy, some investors look at broad asset classes like stocks and bonds. Others slice the market into styles like growth or value, small cap or large cap. Still others track flows into sector funds like technology or real estate.
 Several groups, including the fund trackers Lipper and Morningstar, provide fund-flow numbers. The most easily accessible data comes from the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund trade group, on its Web site, www.ici.org.
 ''It's a good thing to look at if you want a sense of what people really believe because that's a conviction statement,'' said Tobias Lefkovich, equity strategist at Smith Barney.
 Mr. Lefkovich says he believes that ordinary investors arrive at an investment long after most of the gains have been made -- and that they depart after most of the losses have been realized. ''Once you can articulate an investment thesis that's overwhelmingly comprehensive, it's too late to make an investment in it,'' he said.
 Disciplined investors often buy in the midst of panic and sell into euphoria, but that's not what the typical fund shareholder has been doing. Over the 20 years through 2003, the S.&P. 500-stock index had an annualized return of 13 percent, yet the average investor in stock mutual funds earned just 3.5 percent, annualized, over that period, according to Dalbar Inc., a financial markets research firm in Boston. 
 ''What's happening is that the average mutual fund investor is obviously making the buy decision and the sell decision at the wrong time,'' said David Hay, chief investment officer of Evergreen Capital Management in Bellevue, Wash.
 A prolonged move by shareholders out of a fund category is usually an indicator that the category is undervalued and could be a good investment, Mr. Hay said. Inflows are not as meaningful, he believes, because contributions to 401(k)'s and other retirement accounts are usually automatic and do not necessarily reflect investors' feelings about a particular fund type.
 Mr. Hay's firm believes so strongly in the predictive power of fund flows that nearly 60 percent of the company's investment advice is based on them, he said. In addition to flows, he considers valuation and the financial fundamentals of particular sectors.
 ''Over the last five years, the biggest decision you had to make as an investor was to be in value stocks as opposed to growth stocks,'' Mr. Hay said, referring to the outperformance of the value style over growth investing. ''It had nothing to do with individual stocks.''
 Morningstar has also tapped into this contrarian way of fund investing. At the beginning of each year, it compiles a list of three fund categories that have had the lowest ratios of net fund flows to existing assets over the previous year. If the contrarian theory is correct, buying one of the funds in the unloved category should yield better investment returns over the next three years, compared with the run-of-the-mill stock fund. 
 The theory, however, isn't perfect. At the beginning of 2002, for example, Morningstar found that communications, Latin American and Asian funds were the most unpopular among investors. Over the next three years, until the beginning of 2005, the typical communications fund was up by just 1.6 percent, annualized, compared with 21 percent for Latin America funds and 11.5 percent for Asia funds. The average domestic equity fund, meanwhile, was up 5 percent, annualized, during that time. 
 What are the current contrarian picks, according to Morningstar? It named technology, financial services and utility funds as the most unloved categories at the beginning of 2005.
 ''Because a lot of the popular and unpopular categories are sectors, you don't want to go nuts with this and make it half of your portfolio,'' Mr. Kinnel said. Instead, he suggested that investors look at this data when they are rebalancing their portfolios. If one area has had significant inflows over the last year or two, it may be time to trim some profits, he said. 
 Since mid-2004, Mr. Hay's firm has emphasized large-cap growth stocks because they have taken such a beating and have had huge outflows -- $32.7 billion in the 12 months ended in June. At the same time, he has reduced holdings of real estate funds. Over the three years through June, a net $12.97 billion has come into this category, according to Lipper. 
 Steven Bohlin, manager of the $400 million Thornburg Limited Term Income fund in Santa Fe, N.M., closely monitors the flow of money into and out of high-yield bond funds. When he saw several months of outflows from junk-bond funds in mid-2002, he concluded correctly that it was time to buy. ''That was basically a very nasty trend in high yield,'' Mr. Bohlin said. ''As that kept going and going, it got overdone, and there were significant opportunities in that market.'' High-yield bond funds were up 24.3 percent, on average, in 2003 and 10.3 percent in 2004. By the end of 2004, as money flowed back into the sector, Mr. Bohlin had sold off most of his high-yield holdings.
 The unloved-funds strategy is far from foolproof. Sometimes, bigger factors are at play. For example, after the dot-com bubble burst, investors retreated immediately from technology funds -- a shift that may have seemed a sign to buy. But investors were apparently correct to stay away, as tech stock prices have not yet rebounded completely. 
 And in 2001, money began to flow into small caps, yet that didn't indicate problems in the sector. The small-cap rally continued because many people still considered the stocks undervalued. Investors kept buying in droves for several years, which turned out to be the right strategy, Mr. Kinnel said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Profiting From the Discard Pile''Each January, Morningstar lists the three most ''unloved'' categories of mutual funds -- those from which investors have pulled out the most money, as a percentage of total fund assets. Below are the unloved categories and their average annualized performance over the next three years.''Least loved'' fund categoriesAverage annual return for the next three-year period1995EUROPE STOCKCOMMUNICATIONSPRECIOUS METALS1996LATIN AMERICA STOCKCOMMUNICATIONSUTILITIES1997DIVERSIFIED PACIFIC/ASIAPACIFIC/ASIA EX JAPANCOMMUNICATIONS1998NATURAL RESOURCESPACIFIC/ASIA EX-JAPANLATIN AMERICA STOCK1999CONVERTIBLESLATIN AMERICA STOCKPRECIOUS METALS2000JAPAN STOCKDIVERSIFIED PACIFIC/ASIAPACIFIC-ASIA EX-JAPAN2001DIVERSIFIED PACIFIC/ASIALATIN AMERICA STOCKCOMMUNICATIONS2002*LATIN AMERICA STOCKUTILITIESFINANCIAL*Returns for subsequent two years only.Graph tracks average return for all U.S. stock funds in the three subsequent years(Source by Morningstar Inc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); WEB SITES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Ilana Polyak

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



456 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/Park Avenue South; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: An Architect Ready for His Close-Up

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
IT took a year to fuse David and Anita Mandl's two-bedroom apartment in a former bank building on Park Avenue South with the one-bedroom apartment they bought across the hall. It was, on the surface, a simple marriage of space, amplified further by absorbing into the renovation the common hall between the apartments.
 To be sure, there were some architectural and political feats performed -- water and phone lines rerouted into concrete ceilings, artful lighting tricks, tussles with the co-op board over the ownership of that little hall. Still, designing it was almost a reflexive gesture for Mr. Mandl, a principal at Meltzer Mandl Architects, a firm with some 1,100 urban projects under its belt.
It has taken three years and nine months, however -- and this clock is still ticking -- to turn the apartment into a fully automated ''smart'' house, Mr. Mandl's dream. It has flourishes that include electric window shades (both the blackout and opaque varieties) for the 35 windows, which do all sorts of neat things, like lower when the sun swings to the west each afternoon and then raise themselves 10 minutes before sunset. 
 There are also many intricate lighting programs, and there's a vast audiovisual system with 14 plasma television screens and a 15-foot retractable theater screen with nine built-in surround-sound speakers. 
 There are his and hers TiVos -- ''Anita likes to watch things like 'Law and Order,' which has episodes all day long and tends to clog the box,'' Mr. Mandl explained. He is a '''Nova'-BBC news'' kind of guy, he said. 
 There's even a camera over the doorbell, placed just so to snap a visitor's photograph -- a nice security touch, to be sure, but the Mandls have had more fun capturing guest's faces. At a recent party, Ms. Mandl said, one friend was particularly charmed (and not a little stunned) to see her own image displayed on all those television screens, including the little 10-inch one in the guest bathroom, directly opposite the very swell stainless steel toilet she happened to be using.
 With a mixture of pride and exasperation, Mr. Mandl unveiled the guts of his system -- both the bugs and the cogs. He began by unhooking the large L.C.D. Crestron remote control from a wall and leading a visitor to the bright red Herman Miller ''Chiclet'' chairs arranged like furry teeth below the many ''eyes'' -- those plasma screens -- in the living room. 
 Crestron, he said, is a company that provides the controls and writes the programs for apartments such as this. But automation is a subjective thing -- each habitat and its inhabitants unique -- and programs are custom-designed. To further confound and tangle the process, much of the equipment Crestron sold Mr. Mandl was in prototype form -- because the technology kept advancing -- though Crestron has been automating fantasies for 30 years.
 ''When I started this project, I thought I knew what I was in for,'' said Mr. Mandl, who'd built radios for fun as a child, studied engineering in college and even worked for an electrical contractor. ''However, none of this experience prepared me for this undertaking, which involved the help of five electricians, two audio engineers, three system installers and a software programmer who has been updating the system for the last 22 months and should be finished in another two months.'' 
 Mr. Mandl and the programmer are still meeting every other week to debug and continue to customize the commands, he said with some weariness.
 Buggy but luxurious, the apartment, now 2,100 square feet, brings to mind Hyperion, the wired marine habitat (and at the time, the largest single-masted vessel in the world) that James H. Clark of Netscape designed for himself half a decade ago. Like Mr. Clark's boat, this apartment could be controlled through the Internet, though this was one option the Mandls passed on, not seeing the point of turning on the stereo or the lights in the bathroom from Australia, Mr. Mandl said.
 The system's cost is still rising, said he said. ''You just hand over your checkbook,'' he said. ''I lost count at $200,000.'' 
 The Mandls bought their two-bedroom apartment in 1987 for $500,000. The one-bedroom, bought in 2001, cost $580,000. Before they began renovating, they asked their co-op board if they could buy the eight feet of hall between the two apartments. The board's response was affirmative, but it carried a price tag of $60,000 (or $7,500 a foot), which is when they called a lawyer.
 He unearthed a clause in the bylaws, Ms. Mandl said, that granted ''ownership of that hallway to any owner who owned two contiguous apartments,'' provided that ''in combination, the hallway would not interfere with anyone's egress or entrance.'' 
 She continued, ''When we realized that we owned it, we extended the length to our neighbor's door,'' a 22-foot gain. With the news of their $60,000 windfall, they flew to Paris and spent a weekend at the Ritz.
 Ms. Mandl, who retired from a management job at I.B.M. after 25 years and now serves as a board member for various philanthropic ventures, was the general contractor, a role that sometimes put her at odds with Mr. Mandl.
 ''Architects are all about control,'' she said with a wry smile. ''It really is a strain on relationships.'' She described the day the disposal was put in the kitchen sink. ''David came home and looked at that little circle and said, 'You've got to call them back and have it redone; the lettering isn't centered.' And I couldn't do it. So David did it. It mattered that much to him.''
 New York City's babble of signals -- from cellphones, broadband, police and fire messages and so forth -- played havoc with the radio-controlled remotes. Window shades would mysteriously lower in the bedroom, Mr. Mandl said, ''or the bathroom television would flip on by itself when our neighbor downstairs turned on his stereo.''
 The other day, however, devices and desires worked in concert. Mr. Mandl pushed the word ''theater'' on a remote's vivid blue screen and blackout shades sheathed every window, plunging the apartment into darkness for a few seconds, until the movie screen began sliding into place in the living room, its images as big as those at the downtown Quad Cinema. 
 Later, a series of photos taken by Mr. Mandl called ''Patterns'' -- iterations of wooden shoes, or glass terraces, or bricks -- and stored in an Apple G4 played across the plasma screens, revealing that the visual component of this apartment has little to do with catching up with the latest headlines, or even ''Law and Order.''
 ''People say, 'Oh, you must watch a lot of TV,''' Ms. Mandl said. ''But the truth is we hardly watch any. Being a very verbal person, I couldn't really visualize what David was imagining here. What it's about is living in an artwork. It has allowed me to be creative in unusual ways, putting together moods with slides and films.''
 During 25 years of marriage, Ms. Mandl said, ''we've been lucky enough to do a lot of traveling; we have thousands of pictures, and sometimes we just sit here without talking and watch our history together.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AN INFUSION OF PLASMA -- Anita and David Mandl on screen in their fully automated 2,100-square-foot Manhattan co-op apartment. They have 14 plasma television screens, two TiVos, intricate lighting programs and electric window shades for the 35 windows. Mr. Mandl, an architect, designed the apartment. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (70%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (70%) Housing; Cooperatives

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (51%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (51%); MHR (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (51%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (51%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (51%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (51%)

PERSON: Penelope Green; David Mandl; Anita Mandl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



457 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: New Hopes for a Store Selling Used Books

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
PLOT: a used-book store's battle to stay afloat.
 Chief characters: two women who love literature, wanted to do something more creative than tending bar and waiting on tables, and scraped together savings and loans to create the store.
Setting: a Brooklyn waterfront area that they love.
 Genre: nonfiction romance turned nonfiction suspense. 
 ''I think we both had romantic visions of dusty old bookshops,'' Samantha Citrin said recently at Freebird Books and Goods, which she and her friend, Rachel London, opened 18 months ago in a small, formerly vacant storefront on Columbia Street near Kane Street on the fringe of Cobble Hill.
 Actually, the offering of dust seems scant amid the shelves of widely varied fiction and nonfiction, the small refreshment area and the chairs and tables indoors and in the backyard for browsing and sipping in comfort. More conspicuous are the mingled scents of fairly new wood and old books.
 The suspense turns on whether the financial losses to date can be reversed, in a retail operation situated in the least commercial and least trafficked section of a thoroughfare that is generally on the upswing after years of deterioration. 
 The thoroughfare is the 12 blocks of Columbia Street between Atlantic and Hamilton Avenues, where much of Columbia is sandwiched between the waterfront and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. The docks there bustled until the middle of the last century, when the shipping industry began leaving Brooklyn and many of Columbia Street's businesses closed. 
 The expressway's construction after World War II isolated Columbia Street from the neighborhoods it was once part of, despite several bridges over the open-cut highway, and furthered the street's decline. 
 Ms. Citrin, 29, and Ms. London, 36, decided on the used-book business after becoming friends while Ms. Citrin was serving drinks at a bar down the block and Ms. London, was waiting on tables at a restaurant above the bar. ''We were both looking for ideas that would ground us,'' Ms. London said.
 Their choice of merchandise was no surprise. Ms. Citrin majored in English literature at the University of Montana and Ms. London was about to receive a master of fine arts degree in fiction writing from New School University in Manhattan.
 Their desire to set up shop on, or just off, Columbia Street reflected their strong feelings for the area. 
 ''The openness -- being on the edge of the water -- and the cranes and the containerports across the street'' were lures for Ms. Citrin, along with ''a nice amalgamation'' of local residents, who include writers, artists and musicians. Ms. London spoke of a ''great sense of community.''
 Their first choice was a space in a more commercially active pocket off Columbia several blocks from where they would open. But the deal did not work out. The immediate vicinity of their store, which opened in January 2004, is largely residential, with some new restaurants and cafes, and some buildings under renovation or needing it. 
 Most of the $60,000 it cost to build and initially stock the shop -- which now has about 20,000 books, Ms. Citrin said -- was borrowed from friends, relatives and credit card companies. 
 The total revenue of nearly $30,000 in 2004 was far less than the year's costs of loan repayments, rent ($1,400 a month) and other expenses, Ms. Citrin said, adding, ''We're still running behind.'' But the outlook is still positive, she said.
 According to a specialist in the used-book business, Susan Siegel, there is no magic formula for a store to succeed, and no typical life span.
 Ms. Siegel, an owner of Book Hunter Press, which publishes guides to used-book dealers in the United States and Canada, said that about 50 bookshops in New York City dealt exclusively or predominantly in used books, with about half the stores devoted to specialties like mysteries and cookbooks and half -- like Freebird -- offering a wide range of subjects.
 The Bloomberg administration plans a sweeping revitalization of the Brooklyn waterfront, but how this might affect Freebird's neighborhood is unclear. 
 ''I think our greatest hope is to make money to pay back our debt and then be able to afford to pay ourselves a little,'' Ms. London said. ''I don't think either of us thinks of getting rich.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CHAPTER 1 -- Rachel London, center, with her business partner, Samantha Citrin, in their Brooklyn bookstore. Ms. London's son, Cooper, 16 months old, shared a snack. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) Books and Literature; Book Trade

ORGANIZATION: Freebird Books and Goods (Co)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



458 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Where The Right Is Right

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Liberals took the lead in championing human rights abroad in the 1970's, while conservatives mocked the idea. But these days liberals should be embarrassed that it's the Christian Right that is taking the lead in spotlighting repression in North Korea.
 Perhaps no country in human history has ever been as successful at totalitarianism as North Korea. Koreans sent back from China have been herded like beasts, with wires forced through their palms or under their collarbones. People who steal food have been burned at the stake, with their relatives recruited to light the match. Then there was the woman who was a true believer and suggested that the Dear Leader should stop womanizing: after she was ordered executed, her own husband volunteered to pull the trigger. 
 ''The biggest scandal in progressive politics,'' Tony Blair told The New Yorker this year, ''is that you do not have people with placards out in the street on North Korea. I mean, that is a disgusting regime. The people are kept in a form of slavery, 23 million of them, and no one protests!''
 Actually, some people do protest. Conservative Christians have aggressively taken up the cause of North Korean human rights in the last few years, and the movement is gathering steam. A U.S.-government-financed conference on North Korean human rights convened in Washington last week, and President Bush is expected shortly to appoint Jay Lefkowitz to the new position of special envoy for North Korean human rights. 
 The problem with the conservatives' approach is that it's great at calling attention to the issues, but some of its methods are flawed and counterproductive. There's talk, for example, of proposing a 25 percent tariff on Chinese goods unless China protects Korean refugees -- but a tariff wouldn't help Koreans and would undermine the world economy. Likewise, a campaign by well-meaning activists to help North Korean refugees in China has so far only set off a Chinese crackdown that forced some 100,000 refugees back to North Korea. The conservative approach has generally been a mix of fulmination and isolation, which hurts ordinary Koreans, amplifies Korean nationalism and cements the Dear Leader in place. 
 Debra Liang-Fenton, executive director of the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, a bipartisan and secular group, agrees that the religious right is more active on this issue, but she wants more liberals to join the campaign as well. Her group is a good place to start: www.hrnk.org.
 So can anything be done to help North Koreans? Yes, if liberals stop ceding the issue to conservative Christians. Ultimately, the solution to the nuclear standoff is the same as the solution to human rights abuses: dragging North Korea into the family of nations, as we did with Maoist China and Communist Vietnam.
 Our first step should be to talk directly to North Koreans, even invite senior officials to the United States. Many conservatives would accept direct talks, as long as the agenda included human rights (on the model of the Helsinki accords). 
 Second, we should welcome North Korea's economic integration with the rest of the world. For example, we should stop blocking Pyongyang's entry into the Asian Development Bank and encourage visits to North Korea by overweight American bankers. In a country where much of the population is hungry, our most effective propaganda is our paunchiness.
 Third, we should continue feeding starving North Koreans, while also pushing for increased monitoring. The food is delivered through the U.N. World Food Program in sacks that say, in Korean as well as English, that the food is from America. Nobody has done more to bring about change in North Korea than the World Food Program, which now has 45 foreigners traveling around the country. 
 Having just returned from North Korea, I see a glimmer of hope, for in Pyongyang you can feel North Korea changing. Free markets are popping up. Two tightly controlled Internet cafes have opened. Special economic zones seek foreign investment. Casinos lure Chinese gamblers. Cellphones have been introduced, with restrictions. The economy has been rebounding since 2001. Plans are under way for a new Orthodox church. 
 These are modest changes, but they are worth building on. For that to happen, we need two things almost as elusive as North Korean democracy: cooperation between liberals and conservatives, and acknowledgement that our long policy of isolating North Korea has completely failed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); REFUGEES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SLAVERY (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (63%) Christians and Christianity; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (52%) Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



459 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: 'Poet of the Pulps'

BYLINE: By Andrew Leonard. 
Andrew Leonard is a staff writer at Salon.

 BODY:

THE BRADBURY CHRONICLES
The Life of Ray Bradbury.
By Sam Weller.
Illustrated. 384 pp.
William Morrow. $26.95.
 IN the spring of 1954, at the peak of his career, Ray Bradbury returned to the United States from Ireland, where he had written the screenplay for John Huston's ''Moby Dick.'' Soon after, he attended a special Screenwriters Guild meeting held to decide whether to block screen credits for writers who had invoked the Fifth Amendment when asked to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee. 
 A first vote, conducted by secret ballot, quashed the blacklisting effort. But one member of the Guild, warning of dire repercussions, insisted on a second, public, vote.
 This time, the vast majority voted in favor of withholding the credits. But not Ray Bradbury, whose recently published novel ''Fahrenheit 451'' was widely interpreted as an attack on McCarthyism. As told in Sam Weller's new biography of the writer, ''The Bradbury Chronicles,'' Bradbury denounced his fellow screenwriters as ''cowards'' and ''McCarthyites.''
 The year 1954 was a great time to be Ray Bradbury. The publication of ''Fahrenheit 451'' in 1953, following upon the success of ''The Martian Chronicles'' in 1950, had earned him renown and literary credibility. He had broken out of the pulps; his work was published in mainstream periodicals like Mademoiselle and The New Yorker. His output during the period won him a reputation he never lost: among his peers -- Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein -- Bradbury was the author who could really write.
 Not coincidentally, the stretch of ''The Bradbury Chronicles'' that retells this portion of Bradbury's life is gripping. The upward curve of a successful career always makes for a good story. If we like the protagonist, we want to see his triumphal journey unfold. And it's hard not to like the young Bradbury. Geeky beyond belief, raised on Buck Rogers and Edgar Rice Burroughs, he's a fast-talking hustler, passionate about life, crazy about writing.
 Weller makes no bones about being a Bradbury fanboy, and one can feel him thrilling with each success leading up to the drama at the Screenwriters Guild. Here is the author of ''The Martian Chronicles'' -- itself a vehicle for prescient social concerns on the environment, race and a score of other issues -- at his most righteous. Who wouldn't want to linger here, instead of on his ugly spat, decades later, with Michael Moore over the title ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' on the transformation of a onetime Adlai Stevenson acolyte into a Nixon, Reagan and Bush voter?
 This is not to suggest that Bradbury is any less the writer for his political change of course, or even that his shift of allegiance was all that unusual. In one short paragraph describing the change, Weller notes that Bradbury was disillusioned with Lyndon Johnson's role in expanding United States involvement in Vietnam, and disgusted with Jimmy Carter's handling of the economy.
 But a great biography would probe this transformation, rather than slough it off. How and why did a Democratic die-hard, social critic and anti-McCarthy crusader turn to the right? Was this political journey mirrored in Bradbury's literary output? Yet Weller chooses not to grapple with Bradbury's political psychodrama. Instead, we get a detailed accounting of Bradbury's Hollywood hobnobbing -- among the stars who appear are Orson Welles, W. C. Fields, George Burns, John Barrymore, Buster Keaton and Federico Fellini -- and an exhaustive treatment of Bradbury's various unsatisfying efforts to turn his works into great films. 
 Still, for Bradbury fans, ''The Bradbury Chronicles'' is essential. Even for those who only hazily remember reading ''The Martian Chronicles'' decades ago, the ascent to literary stardom of the man Time called ''The Poet of the Pulps'' is an engaging, often fascinating tale. 
 Anyone who has felt the urge to string words together and tell a story is likely to cherish the narrative of a man so obsessed with writing. For all his flirtation with Hollywood, Bradbury is, fundamentally, a writer. For years he held himself to a self-imposed requirement to produce at least one short story a week. Long after his fame began to recede, he continued to pump out the stories, poetry, plays and essays.
 That passion about the prose is what separated him from so many of his early colleagues, who were far more infatuated with the idea -- space ships! aliens! time travel! -than the form of expression. ''The Martian Chronicles'' was entirely unlike anything written by his contemporaries. Filled with metaphor and sadness, this collection of linked short stories, inspired by Sherwood Anderson's ''Winesburg, Ohio,'' haunts the imagination. Few readers cared that the Mars he described was scientifically impossible. Bradbury bothered little about the science, and much about the fiction.
 But that leads to another mystery. Much as Weller tries to disguise it, with detailed accounts of Bradbury's forays into film and television, the curve of Bradbury's life does not point ever upward. He did not duplicate the success of the early 1950's. While his peers from the Golden Age of science fiction continued to deliver novels for decades, Bradbury, who is now 84, more or less retreated from the field.
 Why? It's unclear. Could it have been related to his other journey, his political change of heart? Or did his moment just pass, as real rocket ships and space travel replaced those of fantasy?
 An extroverted, ebullient man, Bradbury wrote stories that simmered with melancholy and nostalgia. At the end of ''The Bradbury Chronicles'' one is left wondering whether much of that sadness was present in Bradbury's daily life in later decades, and if so, why Weller's book shuns it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); WRITERS (92%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) Andrew Leonard; Sam Weller; Ray Bradbury

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



460 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Terror, New York Tries London's 'Ring of Steel' 

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
FOR more than a century now, winged dragons flanking a shield have guarded each entrance to the City of London. In recent decades, this coat of arms has been reinforced with an elaborate anti-terrorism apparatus known as the ''ring of steel,'' consisting of concrete barriers, checkpoints and thousands of video cameras. City planners call the system, set up to defend against bombings by the Irish Republican Army, ''fortress urbanism.'' 
 Perhaps no city in the Western world is better equipped to deter terrorist bombings. Yet the two waves of attacks this month have demonstrated that in London, ''fortress urbanism'' is far from impregnable. 
Like the simple wooden ladder that was used to circumvent a castle's stone walls and moat, determined terrorists can still find tools to strike almost at will, even if their plans do not always succeed, as apparently happened last week in London. 
 This reality, security experts say, must be considered as officials in New York City ramped up security to include random checks of bags in entrances to subway and rail stations, as well as to buses and ferries. A ring of steel, they say, is expensive and may not be a good investment of scarce resources, even in target-rich cities like New York and Washington.
 Yet random searches of bags may be only the beginning. Some government officials in Washington and New York want to spend billions of dollars on security systems like closed-circuit television cameras in subway stations, tracking devices for buses and electronic monitors that could detect any unauthorized intrusions into tunnels. 
 The call to redirect a chunk of the nation's homeland security dollars to ''harden'' mass transit systems is hardly a surprise. In fact, for politicians from urban centers, it is an almost irresistible refrain. The argument is also a compelling one. Around the country, buses, subways and rail cars carry 32 million riders during a work day, compared to the approximately 1.7 million people who fly everyday. Yet federal grants allocated specifically to protect mass transit -- $250 million over the last four years -- is but a fraction of that spent on aviation security, $18 billion.
 But if the United States is going to wage an effective war against terrorism, security experts say, the government must avoid being too reactive, sticking to a more disciplined and reasoned approach. ''You can't childproof America,'' said James Jay Carafano, a homeland security expert at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization in Washington. 
 That means focusing first on rebuilding the deficient intelligence network, both outside and within the United States, Mr. Carafano said. Next comes reducing the consequences of any successful attack, like ensuring that rescue personnel have the necessary equipment and training and local hospitals can handle large numbers of casualties. Only third in this priority list, he said, is building barriers, be they concrete flowerpots or lines of police officers searching backpacks.
 ''I understand what they are doing in the New York City subway today,'' said Randall J. Larsen, a retired Air Force colonel and homeland security consultant. ''But are they going to be doing that a month from now? A year from now? Because the threat will still be there.'' 
 The United States, just four years into its new homeland security campaign, is already replete with examples of well-intentioned but marginally effective efforts to create anti-terrorism barriers.
 In 2004, Homeland Security kicked off the Arizona Border Control Initiative to patrol the Mexican border, where officials say they fear terrorists may enter the United States. But the unmanned aerial vehicles and added helicopters, cameras and border patrol officers have not stopped untold numbers of migrant workers -- and anyone else -- from crossing the desert.
 At the nation's ports, hundreds of millions of dollars is being spent on radiation detection and other scanning equipment to search for smuggled weapons. Yet any semi-smart terrorist, security experts have repeatedly told Congress, would simply charter a boat and carry a nuclear weapon to one of thousands of landings on the nation's coast with only seagulls on guard.
 ''We should not be focusing our efforts on preventing an attack 10 meters or 10 minutes before the attack,'' Colonel Larsen said. 
 Supporters of barrier-based defense certainly have their arguments. These measures could dissuade an attacker. And if not, they might be valuable in an investigation, just as the eerie video images released on Friday of the four newest bombing suspects in London demonstrate. And while a bomb set off at a subway station entrance may kill just as many riders as one in a subway car, the act of inspecting bags may make transit riders feel safer. 
 ''The public wants to feel safe, as well as be safe,'' said William W. Millar, president of the American Public Transportation Association, on New York's inspection effort. ''This has a benefit of perception in addition to the actual benefit in security.''
 His group is calling for a $6 billion in federal funds over the next three years on mass transit security.
 But Michael Chertoff, the Homeland Security secretary, has defended the tilt toward aviation security. ''The truth of the matter is that a fully loaded airplane with jet fuel, a commercial airliner, has the capacity to kill 3,000 people,'' he has said. ''A bomb in a subway car may kill 30.''
 The emphasis, he said, must be on trying to prevent or respond to the most catastrophic attacks, like a nuclear bomb or a biological weapon. ''We have to make sure we are candid with people about the limit of our security system,'' Mr. Chertoff said in an interview earlier this month.
 Congress will most likely increase anti-terrorism spending for mass transit before it takes final action on the Homeland Security budget this year, although by how much remains unclear. And New York -- which has doubled the number of police officers patrolling the subway system since the first London bombings, at a cost of about $1.9 million a week in overtime -- will for an undetermined amount of time continue to check commuters' bags.
 But the questions will remain, as they still do in London, about how much added security these dollars invested in creating an urban fortress will buy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); TRAINS (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); HOSPITALS (50%) Terrorism; Transit Systems; Cameras; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (83%) Irish Republican Army

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Great Britain; London (Eng); New York City; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



461 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Follow The Bouncing Forecast

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE big economic report of the week comes on Friday, when the Commerce Department issues its first reading of economic growth in the second quarter. 
 Until May, forecasters had been optimistic about the quarter's growth. Then worries about oil prices, jobs growth, the trade deficit and weaker-than-expected retail sales led to a scaling back of forecasts. 
From January through April, the Blue Chip Economic Indicators consensus forecast for the second quarter was for growth of 3.6 percent, at an annual rate after inflation. In the May report, the forecast plunged to 3 percent. By the time of the July survey, it had crept back to 3.2 percent. 
 ''I am guessing that the current consensus forecast for real G.D.P. growth in the second quarter might be a little north of our latest estimate due to the larger-than-expected rise in June retail sales, smaller-than-expected trade figures for May and the pickup in auto production in May and June,'' said Randell E. Moore, the editor of the Blue Chip Economic Indicators. 
 As of Friday, the median forecast of 57 economists polled by Bloomberg News was 3.5 percent.

DATA CHECK -- The employment cost index for the second quarter is also due Friday. The median forecast is for an increase of 0.8 percent, which would mean that the rise in overall compensation has been declining since the first quarter of 2004.
 Still, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, expressed concern in his semiannual report to Congress last week. ''Hourly labor compensation as measured from the national income and product accounts increased sharply near the end of 2004,'' he said. He added, though, that ''temporary factors'' had affected that measure. ''Other broad measures suggest that hourly labor compensation continues to rise at a moderate rate,'' he said.
 David Malpass, chief economist at Bear Stearns, is less confident. He has been highlighting for months what he sees as disturbing upward revisions in compensation data.
 Mr. Greenspan ''thinks the upturn in unit labor cost might be temporary,'' Mr. Malpass said. ''I think it will turn out to be a sustained uptrend. This is based on the strength in tax receipts and the pattern of upward revisions in compensation and unit labor costs.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks quarterly change at annual rate for Gross Domestic Product from 2003 through estimated 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); STATISTICS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (52%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



462 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: A Gritty Midwest City Is Reinventing Itself As a Colony for Artists

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

 BODY:
IF Racine, Wis., is not yet the Hamptons of the Midwest, it's not for lack of effort. 
 This formerly gritty industrial city roughly 70 miles north of Chicago and 30 miles south of Milwaukee on the shores of Lake Michigan has been trying for much of the last decade to reinvent itself as an artist's colony and tourist destination.
The efforts have included the opening of the $11 million Racine Art Museum on Main Street in 2003 and the creation of a gallery district centering on nearby Sixth Street, currently home to about a dozen galleries. 
 ''Our mission isn't just cultural,'' said Bruce Pepich, executive director and curator of collections at the museum. ''It's also about economic development. We're here to anchor Main Street.'' 
 The new museum is attracting about 5,000 visitors a month, mainly from Chicago and Milwaukee, according to Devin Sutherland, executive director of the nonprofit Downtown Racine Corporation. ''People are starting to recognize us as a place to see quality art,'' he said.
 Gary Becker, the city's mayor, said Racine is trying to attract Chicago people on summer weekends. ''We're getting more outside influences today,'' Mayor Becker said. ''Things are changing, but not enough. We're still somewhat parochial.'' He added that part of his job is ''talking to service clubs about the need to be open and accepting and not worry about the kid with 18 piercings and a blue Mohawk.''
 Until now, Racine -- a city of about 80,000 residents that was founded in the 1830's -- has largely imported its art. This spring, however, Gorman & Company, a developer based in Madison, Wis., finished the Mitchell Wagon Factory Lofts, a 100-unit project carved out of a historic factory building and designed to lure artists to the city. The architect is McFadden & Company, also of Madison.
 In addition to fairly large units, 1,000 square feet to just over 2,500, the $15 million complex also includes gallery spaces, a woodworking shop, a photography darkroom and a ceramics kiln. 
 Rents in the building range from $575 to $1,210 a month and all but 20 of the units fall into the category of ''affordable'' housing, meaning the tenants can earn no more than 60 percent of the area's median income, or no more than $27,300 for an individual. More than half the project's cost was provided by tax credits for affordable housing and historic renovation.
 ''We're in the business of solving problems for communities,'' said Thomas Capp, executive vice president of Gorman & Company. ''In addition to providing affordable housing, we're usually accomplishing some larger purpose, such as redeveloping a problem building or revitalizing a neighborhood.''
 Both goals came into play in Racine. The Mitchell Wagon project occupies an imposing five-story brick building on the edge of downtown that dates from 1912 and was formerly part of one of the largest industrial complexes in the city. 
 The complex was the headquarters of the Mitchell & Lewis Company, which started manufacturing farm wagons in the 1800's and later switched to automobiles before selling out to the Nash Motors Company in 1922. The building was sold during the Depression and has been largely empty for decades. 
 Tenants began moving into the spaces late last year and there is a waiting list. 
 Two recent arrivals from Chicago are Molly Carter and David Menard, who are married and expecting their first child. Ms. Carter is a fiber artist and also works as coordinator of studio programs at the Milwaukee Art Museum. Mr. Menard is a print maker and painter. 
 ''We love this building,'' Mr. Menard said. ''The fact that it's so new and efficient is really appealing.'' 
 Ms. Carter added: ''There's some interesting things in Racine -- the history, the architecture, the lakefront. Being close to the lake is very important for us.''
 Another tenant, Sherri Myers-Wray, an illustrator and woodworker from the nearby town of Kenosha, said the diversity of the tenants was important to her.
 ''I like the fact that it's an artists' community,'' she said. ''Last night I had a conversation in the hall with a woman who is a dot-com advice columnist and a man who is struggling to set up a music booking business. We ranged in age from 20's to 50's.''
 Ms. Myers-Wray was also the guiding force behind the building's first open house last April for the purpose of introducing Racine to its new artist community. ''We were hoping for 100 people and 600 showed up,'' she said. 
 The project is part of a gradual makeover of the downtown area that began in the mid-1990's with a major planning effort led by the late Samuel Johnson. Mr. Johnson, who died in 2004, was chairman emeritus of SC Johnson, manufacturer of household products like Windex and Pledge, and the city's largest private employer. Mr. Johnson was also a lifelong resident of Racine. 
 ''Sam took a look at the greater Racine community and said this is a great place to live but it could use a boost from a quality of life standpoint,'' said Jane Hutterly, executive vice president of worldwide corporate and environmental affairs for SC Johnson. 
 Indeed, in the early 1990's, ''downtown was pretty grim,'' Mayor Becker said. The city's manufacturing base had declined, taking with it much of the economic vitality of the downtown area.
 The plan identified focal points for downtown redevelopment and also stressed the importance of new retail and residential projects. 
 Since then, about $200 million in public and private money has been invested downtown. The projects have ranged from a $12 million infrastructure upgrade along Main Street executed by the city to ''catalyst projects'' financed entirely or partly by the Johnson family.
 They include the new art museum and a $25 million office building for several of the company's divisions. (SC Johnson is based in a Frank Lloyd Wright-designed complex west of downtown.)
 ''The whole thing is about creating an experience,'' Mr. Pepich said. ''There are probably two generations of people in this area who never come downtown unless they have to pay a parking ticket or get a marriage license at City Hall. What we're doing is retraining that audience to come down here and discover what's going on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RENEWING RACINE -- The makeover of the city's downtown, below, began a decade ago and includes the Mitchell Wagon Factory Lofts, right. Mark Denman, an artist, at work in his loft apartment. (Photographs by Bill Zbaren for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MAYORS (66%); TOURISM (57%) Area Planning and Renewal; Historic Buildings and Sites; Art; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Racine Art Museum

PERSON: Robert Sharoff

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) Racine (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



463 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: A Shadowy Web Of State Agencies And Developers

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
THROUGH a confusing maze of independent authorities and government commissions, the state offers millions of dollars each year to real estate developers in the form of low-interest loans, expedited permits and, most lucrative of all, choice sites and contracts -- amounts that make some government departments look like candy-store operations. 
 The New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, for example, has a budget of $263 million and $1 billion in assets. The Economic Development Authority provided $310 million in low-interest financing for urban development last year. And the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, which has $92 million in real estate holdings alone, distributed nearly $40 million for renewal projects.
Over the years an emerging pattern has fed the already-strong impression that New Jersey's ethics are built on shifting sand: the boards of many independent agencies are populated largely by real estate developers, building contractors and representatives of engineering and architecture firms and of energy and utility companies. And as private money intertwines more and more with ambitious redevelopment projects, government watchdog groups are growing increasingly suspicious and see the appointment process as forging connections between state government and private enterprise. 
 ''We put developers on boards who take care of other developers who sit on other boards who then take care of them,'' said Jeff Tittel, the director of the state chapter of the Sierra Club, who clashes regularly with builders and government agencies.
 In the view of most state officials, taxpayers are receiving invaluable -- and free -- service from people who are for the most part meticulous about any appearance of conflict of interest.
 After all, development is, in part, what public authorities are for: to make construction and economic growth happen, and to bring expertise and efficiency that ordinary government agencies are notoriously lacking.
 Bernard Spigner, a spokesman for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said that when the agency negotiates with private developers, ''on the other side of the table is a real estate professional with his phalanx of attorneys. On our side, I would hope we'd have a real estate professional.''
 Still, no one denies that these days, developers' participation in public business is a delicate issue in a state with a crucial shortage of land, a boom in urban redevelopment and a tradition of pay-to-play politics. 
 ''New Jersey's political culture has created a lot of opportunities,'' said Michael N. Danielson, an expert in urban politics and development at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University. ''We don't have a very clear notion in New Jersey of conflict of interest.''
 And the problem appears larger now, even if public officials' ethics are no worse than ever, ''because the price of land goes up, the size of deals goes up, the bond issues are bigger, the government stake is bigger,'' Mr. Danielson said.
 Consider the startling rise and fall of Charles Kushner, the billionaire developer and Democratic campaign donor. Mr. Kushner gave $1.5 million to James E. McGreevey's gubernatorial campaign and won appointment to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey from Mr. McGreevey in 2002. He then lobbied vigorously, and successfully, to be nominated as chairman. Only after he came under investigation did Mr. Kushner relinquish the nomination as well as his board membership. He is now in prison for tax fraud, campaign finance violations and a bizarre scheme using a prostitute to blackmail his brother-in-law. 
 Some developers who work in other states agree with Mr. Danielson that New Jersey is different. 
 The business climate here ''is just a quagmire, a morass of politics,'' said an executive at a commercial development company with properties around the nation. 

'Open to Conflicts'
 ''You're certainly open to conflicts when people who are actively developing are making the rules,'' said the executive, who asked that he and his company not be identified because they do work here. ''This state is just fraught with all those connections.'' 
 Environmental advocates say that even if the potential for conflicts and self-dealing could magically disappear, the agencies that make policy would still be in the grip of interested parties. 
 ''This is New Jersey,'' said David Pringle, the campaign director of the New Jersey Environmental Federation. ''We have a sewage discharger in charge of the Clean Water Council, a lobbyist for the Chamber of Commerce in charge of the Clean Air Council. We have a developer in charge of the state plan.'' 
 New Jersey does have a conflict-of-interest law, and last month Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey issued an executive order that required training in ethics rules for members of boards and authorities, most of whom are appointed by the governor and subject to Senate approval.
 Yet questioning and public comment are practically unheard of at that stage. In Mr. Kushner's case, for example, he steadfastly refused to appear before the senators, who confirmed him anyway without debate.
 Board members at the biggest agencies must file annual financial statements. But Common Cause New Jersey, among others, says that is not enough. In a recent report, the organization recommended that appointees be required to disclose, in addition to their property holdings, their interests in any contracts, options or negotiations involving real estate. 
 At the least, the report said, such a rule should apply to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Sports and Exposition Authority, the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority, the Economic Development Authority and the New Jersey Environmental Infrastructure Trust, which are ''all involved in key development decisions that influence billions of dollars of private financing.''
 To be sure, most of the more than 400 state authorities and commissions have nothing to do with real estate or even public spending. But the biggest agencies account for most of the $14 billion a year that flows through the state's shadow government of boards and authorities, much of which goes toward development projects.
 One of these, the Sports and Exposition Authority, has recently drawn attention for a spate of huge real estate transactions -- and so has its chairman, Carl J. Goldberg. Mr. Goldberg is also the managing partner in the Roseland Property Company in Short Hills, which develops apartment buildings and expensive town houses in older industrial cities that are being gentrified, including Weehawken, West New York, Bayonne and Harrison.
 No one has accused Mr. Goldberg -- who was appointed by Gov. James E. McGreevey -- of any wrongdoing, but his real estate interests have prompted questions about potential conflicts in his dual role. And indeed, his situation reflects the delicate balance that many gubernatorial appointees have to strike. 
 In 2003, the sports authority designated a new tenant for the Meadowlands sports complex, the $1.3 billion Xanadu shopping and entertainment center now rising around the Continental Airlines Arena. The authority is giving land to the New York Giants to replace their stadium, and it is relocating the MetroStars soccer team, which currently plays there. 
 The authority's plan to build the new soccer stadium in Harrison has led to questions about Mr. Goldberg's role, since the site is only blocks from where Roseland plans to build townhouses and retail stores -- part of an ambitious project to revitalize 275 acres of riverfront. 
 Mr. Goldberg said in an interview that he was not participating in talks involving the soccer stadium, which most agree will enhance the property values in the area, although he also said he would not rule out voting on the matter.
 ''Nothing pertinent to a stadium deal has ever come before the board,'' he said. When it does, he said, he would confer with the authority's lawyers about whether to recuse himself. ''But that's premature,'' he said. 

Criticized Over Rail Line
 Mr. Goldberg has also supported a $1 billion extension of the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail Line to the Meadowlands complex and Xanadu -- a matter that critics say Mr. Goldberg should avoid since the rail line serves Roseland's huge Port Imperial project on the Weehawken waterfront.
 And this spring, Mr. Goldberg joined a real estate partnership that had already been chosen to develop a 102-acre project in Bayonne to be called Harbor Station, the first stage of a multibillion-dollar redevelopment of the Military Ocean Terminal, a former Navy base, which will also be served by the light rail line.
 Mr. Goldberg said he and the authority's lawyers saw no conflict in his joining the board's unanimous vote in April to authorize a $300,000 study of the Meadowlands rail extension.
 Rose Heck, a former assemblywoman from Bergen County who has campaigned to extend the light rail line north first, said Mr. Goldberg, given his real-estate interests, should have recused himself. ''In Government 101, the first thing you learn is the appearance of conflict is just as important as the conflict,'' Ms. Heck said.
 But Mr. Goldberg said that the rail line was ''a regional transportation issue'' and that ''as chair of the sports authority, I see my obligation to ensure varied transportation alternatives." Moreover, he said the future route of the rail line would have no effect on Roseland's properties, where service to PATH and ferry connections to Manhattan are already the established selling point. 
 ''No one would make a decision on where they live so they could get to a football game easier,'' he said.
 Mr. Goldberg did encounter a separate problem, however, in joining the two original developers, Marc Berson and Steven Kalafer, in the Bayonne project: Mr. Kalafer was doing business with the sports authority as the owner of a minor league baseball team, the Bergen Cliff Hawks, which will have a ballpark at the Meadowlands complex. 
 So Mr. Goldberg has recused himself from any sports authority business involving the ballpark. 
 ''I just find it offensive that we have state agencies in the development business, taking care of their friends,'' said Mr. Tittel of the Sierra Club. 
 For his part, Mr. Pringle of the environmental federation said the same potential conflicts of interest could be found in state financing authorities. He cited the Environmental Infrastructure Trust, which finances environmental cleanups and is providing a low-interest loan of more than $100 million to a golf course project in Lyndhurst. The chairman of the trust, Robert A. Briant Sr., is also the head of a contractors trade association. 
 At the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority, which finances urban projects, board members include a real estate developer, a real estate executive from the Lowe's home improvement chain and the chairman of a lumber company. A spokesman for the authority, E.J. Miranda, said ''it is not unusual'' for board members to recuse themselves in votes, although there is no formal record of recusals.
 One former board member -- by coincidence, Mr. Berson, a partner of Mr. Goldberg in Bayonne -- said he thought it was wiser simply to resign.

One Developer Avoided Risk
 Rather than risk any entanglement with the redevelopment authority's possible involvement in the proposed professional ice hockey arena in Newark, Mr. Berson -- who has other valuable real estate holdings in the city -- left the agency two years ago.
 ''It wasn't worth someone thinking ill of me or the agency,'' Mr. Berson said. 
 Many legal and real estate experts insist that potential conflicts are rare. Moreover, Robert S. Goldsmith, a lawyer who has represented many municipalities and teaches at the Rutgers law school in Newark, said that with the surge in urban and brownfields projects, "it would be a terrible disservice" to exclude the most experienced practitioners from the state's involvement in redevelopment.
 John Weingart of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers and a former chairman of the Delaware and Raritan Canal Commission, said that ''developers have become the easy enemy.'' 
 ''They have an interest and a point of view,'' Mr. Weingart said, ''but they have a lot of on-the-ground information.'' 
 When he was an official at the Department of Environmental Protection, Mr. Weingart said, ''I found input from developers more useful, specific and informed than comments I received from the other side.''

Influence Over Land-Use Policy
 A less optimistic view comes from Jim Gilbert, a senior vice president at Merrill Lynch and a former chairman of the State Planning Commission, who helped write legislation that established the commission as well as the State Development and Redevelopment Plan. 
 In designating ''centers'' where high-density development is allowed, or marking off land too environmentally fragile for building, the commission -- whose current chairwoman, Christiana Foglio, is the president of a development company and the wife of Trenton's mayor, Douglas Palmer -- heavily influences land-use policy. Mr. Gilbert said that development and construction interests had got increasing representation on the commission in recent years.
 ''The economic interests that are directly affected by this legislation make it their business to co-opt it,'' he said. ''I'm not ascribing bad motives to people in the development industry, but the bottom line is what counts for them is their pocketbook.'' 
 George Hawkins, the director of New Jersey Future, a statewide planning organization, said he was more concerned about local deal-making than state policy-making. 
 ''You never get far away in New Jersey from the pay-to-play situation,'' Mr. Hawkins said. ''If these people are on a board, the decisions are on the record. I'm more worried about pay-to-play decisions happening behind the scenes.''
 Mr. Danielson at Princeton would ban developers from authorities and boards that do real estate business. ''Hire somebody,'' he said. ''Hire a consultant.'' 
 But Mr. Goldberg, who estimated that he spends half his working hours on sports authority business, dismissed Mr. Danielson's suggestion, saying: 
 ''That's nice to say when you're spending the taxpayers' money. If someone like myself was being compensated as a consultant that would be a fairly expensive obligation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, right, and Carl J. Goldberg, chairman of the sports and exposition authority. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Carl J. Goldberg, above and second from right, chairman of the sports and exposition authority and managing partner of the Roseland Property Company, was present at the lease signing for Xanadu
with him were, from left, George Zoffinger, president of the authority, Mitchell Hersh, president and chief executive of Mack-Cali Realty
James. C. Braithwaite, president and chief executive of KanAm U.S.
 Laurence C. Siegel, chairman and chief executive of the Mills Corp., and Gov. James E. McGreevey. Roseland Properties developed Port Imperial in Weekawken, above left, and has plans for the riverfront in Harrison, left. (Photographs by The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CITIES (70%) Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal; Ethics; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); SIERRA CLUB (54%) New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority; New Jersey Economic Development Agency; New Jersey Casino Redevelopment Authority

PERSON: Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



464 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Dross Into Gold

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: KEASBEY 

 BODY:
IT has been a long time since this industrial town on the banks of the upper Raritan River has seen anything like it.
 But this week, if an experimental venture backed by state and federal environmental authorities, researchers from Rutgers and a consortium of local recycling companies goes according to plan, an ore ship longer than two football fields will come steaming into port here, just west of Perth Amboy.
If the project succeeds, it will not just be the view that is affected: participants hope it will clean the environment, generate hundreds of millions of dollars for the local economy and, above all, stop one of the single biggest threats to New York's status as one of the world's leading industrial ports.
 ''We're trying to do the right thing here, but it's also exciting because we know how important this could turn out to be,'' said Valerie Montecalvo, the president of Bay Shore Recycling, one of the companies in the consortium. 
 So what could be such a big deal that millions of public and private dollars are being spent to tow a decommissioned industrial ship to this small unglamorous town in Middlesex County?
 One word: mud.
 For the last few years, the shipping industry in New York and New Jersey has faced the growing problem of what to do with dredge spoils, the mucky, often highly contaminated byproduct dug up from bays and rivers when they are widened and deepened for navigability.
 Until recently, the most common practice was simply to load the mud onto barges and dump it in the ocean. But about five years ago, the federal government began to require that all dredged materials be tested before dumping because of the adverse effect of putting tens of millions of tons of toxic muck where it did not belong.
 Nor was the alternative of dumping the dredge spoils on land a practical solution. Contaminants in the mud -- the product of decades of industrial pollution -- would seep into groundwater, presenting a health risk to those living nearby.
 As a result, much of the increasingly urgent work of dredging New York area waterways has come to a halt, threatening the viability of the area's future as a destination for super-size container ships. 
 Enter the Algocen, a 730-foot ore carrier recently decommissioned after three decades of service on the Great Lakes. 
 The idea, originally the product of an environmental scientist from Rutgers and Bay Shore's owners, is to solve a dredging problem by setting up the ship as a floating recycling plant that will convert polluted mud into resalable products like topsoil, concrete and a lightweight stone prized in construction.
 While on a visit to the Bay Shore Recycling company's grim 26-acre site on the Raritan, the Rutgers professor, Ali Maher, had a revelation.
 Looking around at the confluence of water, rail and road --the bridges that carry the Garden State Parkway and Route 9 are practically overhead -- the professor decided that it would make a perfect site for a large-scale experiment in recycling dredge spoils.
 The idea was somewhat outlandish, if only because it had never been tried before. Yet within weeks, Ms. Montecalvo said, officials from the State Department of Environmental Protection and Department of Transportation the federal Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Energy ''came flying in from all over the country'' to take a look. 
 Now, after millions of dollars of investments from a federal fund for pilot recycling programs, and millions more from the private New York and New Jersey companies hoping to profit from a new industry, the groundwork has been laid to start the project. The E.P.A. estimates that the project will cost $15 million to $18 million in all. Barges purchased from the Intrepid Air and Space Museum in Manhattan have been affixed to piles driven into the riverbed to serve as a temporary dock for the Algocen. And an array of giant conveyer belts, kilns and pollution-controlled smokestacks that look like something out of a Mad Max movie has been put together to deal with the material that comes off of the ship, which will store the mud and then process it until it can be safely handled.
 All that is missing is the ship itself. Perhaps fitting for such an industrial adventure, the Algocen became entangled in unexpected red tape when Canadian Coast Guard officials at the Port of Montreal decided that the ship, fully fueled and ready to go, was not seaworthy and would have to be towed by tugboat into New York and up the Raritan to its new home. If all goes well, the Algocen will arrive next weekend. 
 As is sometimes the case with even the most well-thought-out environmental projects, though, the real experiment may be whether the operation is sustainable from a monetary point of view. After all, the public start-up money is limited, and there's no telling what the demand will actually be for the recycled products. 
 ''I have no doubt that this process is going to work fine,'' Ms. Montecalvo said. ''The only question is whether we can make this business plan work.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Valerie Montecalvo, president of Bay Shore Recycling, one of the companies in a consortium planning to turn the Algocen into a plant to recycle dredge spoils. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (89%); RIVERS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (70%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Dredges and Dredging; Recycling of Waste Materials; Concrete; Soil

PERSON: Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GREAT LAKES (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Raritan River (Nj); Keasbey (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



465 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Those Freight Train Blues

BYLINE: By LINDA STAMATO and SANFORD M. JAFFE. 
Linda Stamato and Sanford M. Jaffe are co-directors of the Center for Negotiation and Conflict Resolution at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.

 BODY:
IT'S time for New Jersey to face up to the rail freight challenge.
 As the state's highways become more congested (and adding road capacity makes less economic and environmental sense), shipping goods (and debris and waste) by rail freight becomes a more attractive option, complementing industry interest in growth and the public interest in environmental quality, economic growth and sustainability. 
 Even though public and private interests converge, neither government nor private industry is positioned to seize the opportunity that convergence presents. And expansion plans are meeting community resistance. Public agencies traditionally have given little attention to rail freight, and rail carriers have had little contact with the public, state or local agencies, or communities. A change in approach is needed. 
Is this a significant problem in New Jersey? Consider the following:
 Upgrading rail freight terminals to attract new business and reduce truck traffic in Sussex County has been delayed by legislation to postpone new state-financed freight rail work because of fears in Union and Middlesex Counties over potential safety and other problems for neighborhoods there. 
 Building more track and updating a freight unloading station in Morris County -- proposed by the Morristown and Erie Railroad -- is being resisted by residents in Hanover Township. The same company has proposed plans to build a construction- and demolition-debris rail depot in Roxbury, but has temporarily suspended those plans after a persistent legal battle with the county. 
 Construction of a transfer station in a former junkyard site in Elwood, a hamlet in Mullica Township in Atlantic County -- a proposal by the Southern Railroad of New Jersey -- is being resisted by local residents for health and safety reasons. It is also being challenged by the New Jersey Pinelands Commission to respect the environmental requirements and protections accorded the Pinelands reserve under federal and state legislation. 
 Planning is under way to add more capacity to the four rail freight transfer stations that operate currently in the Meadowlands in Bergen County. That is expected to generate concerns as well. 
 There are legitimate interests in conflict here as well as pressing needs that are unlikely to go away. So far, though, political figures have offered up reactions that are not likely to produce solutions. Our state's two senators, Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg, joined by Acting Governor Richard J. Codey, for example, are pressing for changes in federal law, an unlikely prospect given the compelling (and well-established) protection of the free flow of commerce. And then there is the state legislation to postpone any state-financed freight rail work, cited above, which may provide breathing room but hardly generates options. 
 Rail officials aren't exactly taking the high ground. As opposition mounts, they take refuge in federal regulation, asserting that state permits are not required and local ordinances don't apply -- implying that the public's safety and health, and protection of the environment, are not their concerns. This is no way to run a railroad. 
 While federal pre-emption of state and local rule doesn't give railroads a complete pass, the railroads and local and state authorities generally disagree as to what the limits are.
 So, how are we to manage rail freight and related policy and planning issues? Consider how other states have dealt with similar challenges. In Florida, Oregon and Minnesota, efforts have been taken to develop and support reliable, efficient and environmentally responsible freight transportation systems. 
 Minnesota created forums to exchange ideas and issues between its transportation agency and private rail sector to work toward that end; Oregon has a Freight Advisory Committee, created by statute, to advise the State Transportation Commission on issues, policies and programs that affect freight mobility and to identify priority freight projects for considerations in transportation improvement programs, and to recommend the strategic use of public funds. 
 And Florida mandates conflict resolution processes to handle disputes with environmental and growth management agencies and with citizens; governmental entities as a whole are encouraged by the Legislature to put such processes in place, and they have.
 New Jersey should follow that lead. The New Jersey Department of Transportation, in concert with the Surface Transportation Board, the federal agency responsible for rail regulation, should start discussions designed to enhance cooperation among state agencies and local officials and citizens and rail carriers regarding freight issues. Mechanisms should be put in place that are designed to assist the parties at interest to reach acceptable solutions locally -- notably, mediation, a process used successfully to resolve disputes over highway location, port development, urban renewal and finding sites for power plants. Collaborations assisted by facilitators or mediators can produce solutions that work.
 It's time to get started.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (94%); RAIL FREIGHT (92%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); TRAINS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ORDINANCES (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) Railroads

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%) Linda Stamato; Sanford M Jaffe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



466 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2047 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of China Inc.? 

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
WILLIAM A. REINSCH, an avowed free trader, welcomes China's rising stature in the international economy. After all, he is the president of the National Foreign Trade Council, an organization founded in 1914 to promote an ''open world trading system.'' Indeed, when he was a senior trade official in the Clinton administration, Mr. Reinsch was chided by some security analysts who said he was being soft on China by placing matters of commerce ahead of national security. 
 But even Mr. Reinsch is uneasy about China's attempt to buy Unocal, a midsize American oil company. The outcome of the takeover contest for Unocal is uncertain, and last week its board embraced an improved offer from Chevron. Yet Cnooc, a government-backed Chinese oil company, still has the higher offer -- and it could up the ante.
If the Chinese bid proceeds, Mr. Reinsch wants to see a thorough national security review of the deal, one that goes beyond the usual focus on weapons technology to include energy security. ''Our Army, Navy and Air Force run on oil,'' he explained. 
 Oil is the ultimate geopolitical commodity -- it is ''The Prize,'' as Daniel Yergin titled his epic history of petroleum and international politics. And even if Cnooc fails to grab Unocal, the pursuit has pushed the two sides of the Chinese challenge together and into the spotlight of public debate. For China is both an engine of economic globalization and an emerging military power. In symbolic shorthand, it is Wal-Mart with an army.
 The two sides aren't neatly divided. But those who focus on economics tend to see partnership, cooperation and reasons for optimism despite tensions, while security experts are more pessimistic and anticipate strategic conflict as the likely future for two political systems that are so different. 
 In China, there are also two camps -- the security hawks and the economic modernists, according to China analysts. The modernists see China joining the United States as the second great economic power of the 21st century, and the two nations sharing the gains from increased trade ties and global growth. The hawks regard that view as naive, and fret that American policy is to remain the world's only superpower and to curb China's rise. So China's response, the hawks say, is to try to erode United States hegemony and reduce America's power to hold China down.
 Both faces of China have been evident recently. Two weeks ago, a senior Chinese military official, Maj. Gen. Zhu Chenghu, said China should use nuclear weapons against the United States if the American military intervenes in any conflict over Taiwan. Then, bowing to pressure from the United States and other trading partners, China announced last Thursday that it would no longer peg its currency tightly to the dollar. It is a measured step, and it will not do much to moderate China's huge trade surplus with the United States anytime soon. But the move is a sign of flexibility and accommodation.
 ''Do we see each other inevitably as antagonists, or do we see a world of globalization from which both sides benefit? That is the big issue,'' said Kenneth Lieberthal, a senior official in the National Security Council during the Clinton administration. 
 ''And that framework, one way or another,'' added Mr. Lieberthal, a China analyst and a professor at the University of Michigan business school, ''will drive an enormous number of policy decisions.''
 So that is the China question: Is it an opportunity or a threat? If nothing else, the Cnooc bid for Unocal has shown how unsettled American thinking is on China and how deep the anxieties run, both in matters of national security and trade.
 It is easy to dismiss Washington as a hot-air factory, but the scope of the outcry in Congress is significant. Resolutions and legislative proposals, all critical of Cnooc's takeover bid, have piled up in the House and Senate, from Republicans and Democrats. A resolution presented last month by Representative Richard W. Pombo, a California Republican, declared that permitting the Chinese company to buy Unocal would ''threaten to impair the national security of the United States.'' It passed, 398 to 15. 
 Senator Byron Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat, has drafted three pieces of anti-Cnooc legislation that range from calling for a six-month Congressional inquiry into the bid to a bill that would prohibit the deal. Mr. Dorgan objects to the Chinese move on fair-trade grounds. The Chinese government, he says, would not allow an American company to buy a Chinese oil company. ''So why on earth should they be able to buy an American oil company?'' Mr. Dorgan said.
 Yet the Chinese takeover bid taps into a deeper concern about trade and globalization for Mr. Dorgan. He talks of manufacturing jobs lost to China, intellectual-property pirates in China illegally copying American movies and software, and a trade deficit with China that is rising astronomically with no end in sight. ''Trade should be mutually beneficial, and it is certainly not with China,'' Mr. Dorgan said.
 The tempest in Congress has increased the political risks surrounding the Cnooc bid. At $18.5 billion, the bid remains higher than Chevron's sweetened offer of $17 billion. But Wall Street analysts say Cnooc will have to go higher to have a chance to win, offering a sizable premium over the Chevron bid to compensate for delays of a government review of the Chinese offer or even the possibility that Washington may block a Chinese deal.
 It would be an extreme step, but Congress has the power to ''regulate commerce with foreign nations,'' under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution. ''My sense is that Congress is not going to stand still for a Cnooc takeover being approved,'' said C. Richard D'Amato, chairman of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, an advisory group to Congress. ''That is the political reality.''
 Cnooc and its advisers misread the political environment in Washington. Fu Chengyu, the Cnooc chairman who earned a graduate degree from the University of Southern California, has said he was surprised by the intensity of political criticism. Cnooc's path would have been smoother if it had joined with an American oil company as a partner in its bid, an option that was considered briefly but rejected, according to a person close to the company.
 The idea, the person said, would have been that the American company would acquire Unocal's assets in the United States, while Cnooc took the main prize in the deal -- Unocal's offshore natural gas fields in Asia and its expertise in offshore exploration and production. The gas reserves and skill are considered strategic to China's goal of moving away from coal and generating 20 percent of the nation's electricity from natural gas by 2020. ''It would have been better to have not made this big move a head-on attack, to have linked up with an American partner so the deal would have been less threatening and less a lightning rod for China politics in the United States,'' the person said.
 Perhaps, but many economists and trade specialists contend that the American angst over the Cnooc bid says more about the United States than it does about China or Cnooc's tactics. ''All this really points to the anxieties about globalization in our own society,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz, a trade official in the Reagan administration and president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington. ''We are so economically interdependent with China now and we chose that path.'' 
 Washington pushed for China's integration into the international economy and its entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001. American companies have farmed out much of their manufacturing to Chinese factories. American consumers have been on a Chinese shopping spree for years, buying everything from clothes to computers made there. That is why the United States had a record $162 billion trade deficit with China last year. China sits on $700 billion in foreign exchange reserves, mostly in dollars. It recycles those funds in good part by investing in United States Treasury bonds; that keeps American interest rates low, fueling the real estate boom.
 ''We handed China the money they are using to try to buy Unocal,'' said Mr. Prestowitz, author of a new book on the shift of wealth and power to Asia, ''Three Billion New Capitalists'' (Basic Books, 2005). ''And now we're telling the Chinese, please keep investing in our bonds but you can't invest what amounts to a sliver of their surplus in an oil company. That's really confused and hypocritical on our part.''
 Where others see muddle, R. James Woolsey, director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Clinton administration, sees strategic clarity in challenging the Cnooc bid. Oil is a globally traded commodity, Mr. Woolsey concedes, but it is also a strategic resource in a market that is tightening because of rising demand from fast-growing nations like China and India. That, Mr. Woolsey says, is before one begins thinking of the possible impact of, say, an act of terrorist sabotage in a crucial Middle East oil field.
 ''China is realistically assuming there may be a shortage of oil,'' said Mr. Woolsey, a vice president in the Booz Allen Hamilton consulting firm. 
 In China, Mr. Woolsey sees a nation with military ambitions to challenge the United States, and a political system with little regard for human rights and free speech. Cnooc, in Mr. Woolsey's view, is the corporate vehicle of ''a Communist dictatorship.''
 The Cnooc move, according to Frank Gaffney Jr., a senior Defense Department official in the Reagan administration, is a step to ensure that China has the resources for its overarching national design. ''China's strategy is to supplant the United States as the premier economic power in the world and, should it become necessary, defeat us militarily,'' said Mr. Gaffney, president of the Center for Security Policy.
 The strategic concern was much narrower at William Blair & Company. Until recently, William Blair, the investment firm in Chicago, was the largest outside shareholder in Cnooc, which is majority-owned by the Chinese government. But William Blair sold off its stake, worth about $160 million, in recent weeks because of worries that Cnooc was behaving too much like a state-owned company and not enough like a capitalist enterprise trying to maximize returns to shareholders, explained David Merjan, a fund manager at the firm. 
 The pricey bid for Unocal, Mr. Merjan said, raised doubts about how independent Cnooc really was from the Chinese government. ''If China is going to sell shares in a company like Cnooc to outside shareholders, it should not be run for the benefit of Chinese economic policy,'' Mr. Merjan said.
 CNOOC and its pursuit of Unocal, it seems, are part of China's evolutionary path. Cnooc is playing its hand with plenty of government help, about $7 billion in loans on terms Western oil companies could not hope to get. Accordingly, Cnooc may be willing and able to overpay. Yes, China is hunting for oil and gas assets around the world as a national priority. Still, that is happening in a nation that is drifting steadily toward a market economy, though one with more central control than Americans view as a free-market economy.
 The Chinese Communist Party, with 60 million members -- more than the population of France -- does guide the economy, if less and less over time. ''But think of it as the Chinese bureaucratic capitalist party,'' said Mr. Lieberthal of the University of Michigan. ''It has nothing really to do with Communism.''
 Mr. Lieberthal counts himself as among the optimists on China. Globalization, he says, and continued integration of the Chinese and American economies can work to mutual benefit. The spread of middle-class affluence and education across more of the Chinese population should eventually be a force for democratic liberalization, following the pattern of Taiwan and South Korea.
 ''Am I a hundred percent sure I'm right? No, but that's the long-term bet I'd make,'' Mr. Lieberthal said. ''And if you let the pessimists -- the people who believe that the U.S. and China will inevitably be enemies -- drive policy, then the outcome will be the one they predict.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: China's offer to acquire Unocal has touched off intense debates on trade, globalization and military might. Above, Chinese soldiers marched in Beijing. (Photo by Jason Lee/Reuters)(pg. 1)
 A Chinese soldier checked an oil tank in the Qinghai province last year. China considered, but then rejected, the idea of teaming with an American company in a bid to acquire Unocal. (Photo by Shan Haijing/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); NAVIES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; International Trade and World Market; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL (84%) Unocal Corp ; China National Offshore Oil Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



467 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14

Death Toll Climbs in Egypt
The death toll from three bombs at an Egyptian resort rose sharply, and Egyptian authorities said at least 90 people had been killed in an attack strikingly similar in design to one that tore apart resorts farther up the coast of the Sinai peninsula nine months ago. 1

Suspect Not Tied to Attacks
The British police admitted that a man officers gunned down at point-blank range in front of horrified subway passengers on Friday had nothing to do with the inquiries into the wave of terrorist attacks. Senior investigators and officials of the Metropolitan Police said the man was believed to be South American. 1

Although the second round of London attacks were not fatal, they are causing some travelers to London to change plans, and could damage Britain's already slowing economy, retailers and tourism experts say. 8

Insurgency Appears Strong
Despite assurances by the United States that the insurgency in Iraq is on the wane, the guerrillas appear to be growing more violent. 1

A senior official representing a powerful group of Sunni Arab clerics said that the group would not discourage Sunnis from voting in the constitutional referendum and Iraqi national elections. 14

Gaza Issues Still Unsettled
Palestinian leaders told Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice that Israel had not resolved any of the issues that both sides agree need to be settled before the Gaza pullout, officials said. 6

NATIONAL 16-23

Calm Follows Court Nomination
The Supreme Court battle of 2005 has yet to be joined, and the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts has not sparked the kind of partisan uproar that other nominees might have. 1

Cheney Fights Legislation
Vice President Dick Cheney is leading a White House lobbying effort to block legislation offered by Republican senators that would regulate the detention, treatment and trial of detainees held by the American military. 23

Battle Over Data Mining
Bush administration officials are opposing an effort in Congress under the Patriot Act to force the government to disclose its use of data-mining techniques in tracking suspects in terrorism cases. 16

NEW YORK/REGION 25-30

Searches Raise Legal Issues
The decision last week to have police officers inspect the belongings of subway riders has opened a thicket of legal and constitutional issues. The New York Civil Liberties Union has begun work on a federal lawsuit, which could be filed this week. 25

OBITUARIES 32

Alain Bombard
A French doctor who deliberately drifted across the Atlantic for 65 days in a lifeboat with no provisions, subsisting on plankton, saltwater and raw fish, to prove it was possible, he was 80. 32

Chess 30
Cong. Vote 30
Weather 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US PATRIOT ACT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LOBBYING (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DATA MINING (67%); LITIGATION (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (54%); DICK CHENEY (52%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



468 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: HOTELS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: A Dream Room May Depend on the Pillow 

BYLINE: By TERRY TRUCCO

 BODY:
THE pillow talk begins almost the moment you check in to the Skylofts at the MGM Grand, a 51-room addition to the Las Vegas hotel that opened in January. A ''dream butler'' visits the guest to hand out a pillow menu explaining the fine points of the eight selections, from a memory foam pillow that molds to the shape of your head to an adjustable air pillow that comes with a pump. On the bed sit goose down pillows swathed in creamy Anachini pillowcases. The one in the middle is monogrammed with the guest's initials.
 It's hard to recall a time when hotels have lavished more attention, money or publicity on pillows. Sure, bespoke monograms are still a rarity (rooms at the Skylofts, after all, start at $800). But finding a hotel that provides a selection of quality pillows, whether designed to prevent allergies, stifle snoring or just promote a good night's sleep, has become much easier in the last five years. 
 Pillow menus are almost as familiar as room service menus at some small high-end hotels, like the Ritz-Carlton Key Biscayne, which offers 12 types of pillows. The Salish Lodge near Seattle ups the ante with 16 choices. In New York, the Benjamin, credited with introducing the concept five years ago, serves up 11.
 Larger chain hotels offer fewer options. But most, including Hyatt, Hilton, W and Westin, have plumped up the quality and dimensions of their pillows and, mindful of the many travelers with allergies, provide hypoallergenic pillows.
 Even moderately priced hotels like Marriott Courtyard, Econo Lodge and Comfort Inn are moving to help find the perfect pillow -- or at least one that doesn't feel like a rock. ''Because pillows are a much smaller capital expenditure than mattresses, they're a smart way for economy brands to improve their rooms,'' said Debbie C. Howath, an assistant professor at Johnson & Wales University International Hotel School in Providence, R.I. 
 Just don't expect much choice. Red Roof Inns recently began replacing classic interwoven polyfill pillows, which go flat in six to eight months, with costlier hypoallergenic pillows filled with fiber puffs to stay fluffy longer. But Red Roof decided against offering multiple types. ''We can't throw dollars around in the economy segment,'' said Joe Wheeling, the chief operating officer.
 The hotel industry's obsession with pillows took off in 1999, when Westin introduced the Heavenly Bed, outfitted with both feather and hypoallergenic-fill pillows. Cut-throat competition insured that pillow upgrades and choices became widespread.
 But other reasons were at work. As the industry has grown more design conscious, hoteliers discovered that a bed piled high with pillows imparted a message of welcome and comfort. ''They're also part of your first impression when you enter the room,'' Mr. Wheeling said. 
 Aging leisure travelers, with increased concerns about backaches, stiff necks and fitful sleep, have prompted hotels to create more comfortable surroundings. And Judi Brownell, a professor at the Cornell Hotel School, said that the last decade's dramatic increase in women's traveling for business helped promote pillow options. ''Women have strong preferences for amenities,'' she said, ''and they like having choices as a way of personalizing their surroundings.'' 
 Women have sleep concerns that differ from those of men, she added. According to a recent survey by the National Sleep Foundation and Hilton Hotels, 40 percent more women than men reported having difficulty getting a good night's sleep when they traveled. And twice as many women as men take along a pillow when they travel.
 Indeed, Ms. Brownell is one of them. ''My husband cringes when I go into a hotel hugging my pillow,'' she said. ''But I need a lot of sleep, and I'm still not sure I'll get the right pillow at a hotel.''
 Even hotels offering double-digit pillow menus admit finding the perfect pillow is not easy. Most have an employee on hand to make suggestions and explain arcane offerings, like the jelly neck roll, which can be heated or chilled to conform to your head.
 Eileen McGill, the sleep concierge at the Benjamin, asks guests about their sleep positions, snoring habits and health before suggesting two or three pillows. For jet lag she might recommend a Swedish -- aka NASA, since it was developed by the space agency -- memory pillow, the most popular item on the menu. She likes the satin beauty pillow -- ''hypoallergenic with cutouts to decrease pressure'' -- for guests coming to New York for elective surgery. 
 Though Ms. McGill says guests have called from the airport to request specific pillows, not everyone cares. Tobias Mattstedt, vice president for operations at the Skylofts, said most visitors viewed the pillow menu as a conversation piece rather than a sleep aid. 
 ''We get a lot of requests for the NASA memory pillow because people havseen it advertised on TV,'' he said. But guests rarely order the buckwheat hull pillow.
 ''It's a very nice pillow, but it sounds too healthy,'' Mr. Mattstedt said. ''People come here for a good time.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Victoria Roberts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); LODGING (78%); ALLERGIES (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Hotels and Motels; Pillows

ORGANIZATION: Mgm Grand Hotel and Theme Park (Las Vegas, Nev)

PERSON: Terry Trucco

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



469 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Army Likely To Fall Short In Recruiting, General Says

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23 

 BODY:
The Army's top personnel officer acknowledged this week that the service will probably miss its recruiting goal this year, the first public admission by a senior Army official and a stark reminder of the Iraq war's impact on enlistments.
 The officer, Lt. Gen. Franklin L. Hagenbeck, said in testimony to the House Armed Services military personnel subcommittee on Tuesday that an improving economy, competition from private industry and an increasing number of parents who are less supportive of military service meant that the active-duty Army, as well as the Army Reserve and Army National Guard, would fall short of their annual quotas. 
 ''We will likely miss recruiting missions for all three components,'' said General Hagenbeck, voicing publicly what many senior Army officials have said privately for weeks. 
 The Army has not missed its annual enlistment quota since 1999, when a strong economy played havoc with recruiters' efforts. 
 Maj. Gen. Michael D. Rochelle, the commander of Army recruiting, has expressed cautious optimism in recent weeks that the active-duty Army could still eke out its annual enlistment goal, especially with 1,200 additional recruiters on the street for the peak summer months. 
 The Army met its monthly recruiting goal in June, the first time in five months, and is expected to exceed its July quota, recruiting officials say. But through June, the active-duty Army had enlisted only 47,121 recruits of its overall goal of 80,000, a rate that leaves too great a gap to make up, officials said. 
 ''It now seems unlikely that the Army will achieve its goal,'' said Representative John M. McHugh, a New York Republican who is head of the House panel, and who predicted that the Army could fail by as many as 7,000 people for the recruiting year that ends on Sept. 30. 
 The gloomy forecast from General Hagenbeck came as the Army announced this week its latest package of recruiting bonuses, college funds and special pay for high-demand jobs. Under the new program, active-duty recruits could accrue more than $100,000 in incentives. 
 In addition, the Pentagon this week formally asked Congress to increase the maximum age for military recruits to 42, in all branches of the armed services. Currently, the limit is 39 for people without previous military experience who want to enlist in the reserves and the National Guard, and 35 for those wanting active-duty positions. 
 So far, re-enlistment rates have been stronger than expected and have helped cushion the impact of the Army's recruit shortage. Soldiers who re-enlist while deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan or Kuwait can earn up to $15,000 in tax-free bonuses. But Mr. McHugh warned that ''predictions of a looming retention crisis'' were valid given the repeated yearlong tours to Iraq and Afghanistan for a growing number of soldiers. 
 The Army has been experimenting with new television advertisements intended to persuade adults with influence over youngsters' career choices that the military fulfills a call to national service. But against the backdrop of Iraq and Afghanistan, many parents are turning a deaf ear. 
 ''Due to the realities of war, there is less encouragement today from parents, teachers and other influencers to join the military,'' the Pentagon's top personnel official, David S.C. Chu, told the House panel. 
 Under the Army's new incentives, which began earlier this month, the service is offering $400 a month for up to 36 months, or a total of up to $14,400, to soldiers who enlist for three years or more as infantry, electronics repair specialists, food-service personnel and other high-demand jobs. The soldiers must agree to be assigned to a ''priority unit,'' meaning one that is preparing to deploy overseas, according to the Army Recruiting Command. 
 Recruits who qualify for the special pay are also eligible for cash enlistment bonuses of up to $20,000, as well as a loan repayment program of as much as $65,000, or grants of up to $70,000 for college. Combined, these new incentives could reach $104,400. 
 Congress is now considering authorizing even higher bonuses. But senior military officials cautioned this week that monetary enticements alone were not a long-term panacea to the Army's recruiting problems. 
 Gen. Peter Pace, the incoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who served as a recruiter in Buffalo for three years, said the military must appeal to American youth in other ways. 
 ''This is not about money and benefits; this is about message,'' General Pace said at a Pentagon briefing on Wednesday. ''If we let our young folks and middle-young folks know how much we appreciate their service to their country -- there are thousands and thousands of young men and women out there who want to serve this country.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (97%); ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (72%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Terrorism; Public Opinion; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN M MCHUGH (56%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



470 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; ATTACKS IN EGYPT: PATTERNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Many Bombs But Links Are Unclear

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23 

 BODY:
First came Bali, then Riyadh, Casablanca and Istanbul, then Madrid, Taba, London, and now, Sharm el Sheik, all sites in the last three years of major terrorist attacks involving big bombs aimed at soft targets.
 In each case, the attack was quickly described by authorities as having ''the hallmarks of Al Qaeda,'' in the sense that it involved synchronized strikes or sophistication in planning. But to date, none have been traced to Osama bin Laden, the fugitive leader of Al Qaeda, or to other pivotal leaders of what American officials now call Al Qaeda central, to distinguish from its offshoots, admirers and those who its successes have simply inspired.
 No one can yet say who was ultimately behind the attacks in London's Underground trains and double-decker buses this month, although the four dead bombers and a handful of other suspects have been identified. The question of who was responsible for the attacks on Saturday in Sharm el Sheik, Egypt's most cosmopolitan Red Sea resort, appears even more of a mystery. 
 But like the previous strikes that left resort hotels, housing complexes and train cars shattered well beyond Iraq, Israel and the occupied territories, the latest wave has demonstrated the awful utility of a common tactic, even if employed by different groups for different reasons.
 In Sharm el Sheik, as in London and the other cities that became killing fields, attackers have proved again and again since Sept. 11, 2001, just how much damage and death they can inflict when they focus on the least protected of targets, particularly when they are willing to sacrifice themselves in the process.
 None of the nearly dozen major terrorist attacks carried out outside the war zones of the Middle East and Chechnya since Sept. 11 have come anywhere close to inflicting the kind of toll levied on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. But in each case, the number of deaths has been in the dozens, and the impact on national psyches and economies has been considerable. 
 Most recently, the July 7 attacks in London apparently crossed one major threshold, as the first in Europe of what the police say they believe were suicide attacks. Saturday's attack in Sharm el Sheik crossed another, killing more tourists and Egyptians than in any of the many terror attacks in Egypt in recent decades, including the 1997 slaughter in the ruins of a temple in Luxor.
 But in the long term, the real significance of the new attacks may be as new points of data in a picture, indicating what Porter J. Goss, the director of central intelligence, portrayed to Congress in March as ''widely dispersed terrorist networks'' that present real dangers to American security.
 Citing the attacks in Madrid, Bali, Saudi Arabia and other places, Mr. Goss warned of the dangers posed by the terrorist threat from ''a broader Sunni jihadist movement'' even beyond Al Qaeda. 
 In general, President Bush and his top aides have tended to emphasize successes in combating terrorism, including operations that they say have resulted in the deaths or capture of three-quarters of Al Qaeda's leadership as it was known in 2001. Mr. Goss and other officials continue to describe Al Qaeda as the principal threat to American security, saying that it remains intent on inflicting another major attack on the United States itself, possibly with a chemical or biological weapon or a so-called dirty bomb.
 But senior intelligence officials, including Paul R. Pillar, the national intelligence officer responsible for the Near East and South Asia, have increasingly turned their focus to the challenges posed by organizations similar to Al Qaeda, whose attacks in places like Sharm el Sheik, smaller and more manageable than those of Sept. 11, are inflicting a powerful cumulative effect.
 ''The looser the operational connections become and the less Islamist terrorism is instigated by a single figure, the harder it will be to uncover exploitable links and the more likely that the instigators of future terrorist attacks will escape the notice of U.S. intelligence,'' Mr. Pillar wrote last year in an article that appeared in The Washington Quarterly, an academic journal. ''In a more decentralized network, these individuals will go unnoticed not because data on analysts' screens are misinterpreted but because they will never appear on those screens in the first place.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); RELIGION (84%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); RESORTS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Islam

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) Douglas Jehl

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (88%) RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SPAIN (73%) Egypt; Sharm El Sheik (Egypt)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



471 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: So You Think You Can Outsmart the Market. Good Luck. 

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
REMEMBER the debate about the accounting treatment of employee stock options? 
 The fight was intense. One side said that companies should be required to count options as expenses, in order to give a truer picture of profits, while the other said that such a move would lead to some companies' financial ruin. Well, the rules did change: the shifts were announced in December and took effect in June. 
The stock market, however, has had remarkably little reaction to the enactment of the new rules. 
 There is a lesson to be learned in this collective shrug, and it isn't a pleasant one for investors. Put simply, it is that the odds of outguessing the stock market are steep.
 Until the rule changed, of course, companies were not required to record an expense when they granted stock options to their employees. Supporters of the old accounting rule said it gave start-up companies a fighting chance to succeed, because they typically do not have enough cash to attract and keep highly qualified employees. Companies in the technology sector, in particular, lobbied strongly against changing the rule.
 Proponents of the change argued that accounting for options as an expense was a matter of honesty. Allowing a company to hide the expense of those options enabled it to report artificially higher profits, they said, giving it an unfair advantage.
 Last December, the Financial Accounting Standards Board voted unanimously to change the rule, and the Securities and Exchange Commission is requiring companies to expense options granted during fiscal years beginning after June 15. That means the new rule has already taken effect for companies whose fiscal years began on July 1; the remaining companies will fall under its provisions within the next 12 months. 
 So far, the change has had little perceptible impact on stock prices. Investors do not appear to be behaving any differently toward companies where the rule has already taken effect. In fact, the technology sector has outperformed blue-chip stocks since the board's announcement in mid-December. The Dow Jones U.S. Technology index has risen 0.4 percent over that time, versus a loss of 0.2 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average.
 There are many possible explanations for the muted reaction. One is that many investors were already taking option grants into account when interpreting companies' income statements, according to Clifford S. Asness, a managing principal at AQR Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn. Even before the rule change, companies were required to divulge details of their option grants in footnotes to their accounting statements. So what they are now being required to report on their bottom line could have been easily deduced by ''anyone willing to spend 10 minutes with a financial statement,'' Mr. Asness said.
 To be sure, not all investors were willing to do that work. Some dug no further than the headlines on companies' news releases, and no doubt their naivete inflated the share prices of companies that relied heavily on options. After all, according to Owen A. Lamont, a professor of finance at the Yale School of Management, it was in the hope of influencing this ''dumb money'' that many companies fought the new accounting rule so vehemently.
 We should not exaggerate the market impact of these naive investors, however. With thousands of hedge funds looking for overvalued stocks to sell short, there is plenty of ''smart money,'' in Professor Lamont's parlance, to take the opposite side of the dumb money's bets. Before the rule change last December, this smart money could have sold short the shares of companies that tended to grant the most options. To the extent that it did so, Professor Lamont said, these companies' shares would have been beaten down in advance of the accounting change. That, in turn, would have reduced the reaction the market would have had after that change was announced.
 Yet another reason for the barely perceptible impact is provided by Jennifer N. Carpenter, an associate professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business. In the long run, the change could very well help the companies that grant the most options to their employees, Professor Carpenter said, because the ''discipline of having to expense options may lead firms to grant them more thoughtfully and efficiently.'' 
 WHAT should we make of all this? Mainly that stocks' movements are very hard to predict. Even if investors had known in advance that the accounting standards board was going to change the rule, and when it would take effect, it is still not clear that anyone could have made much money.
 This conclusion dovetails with the results of past research into what makes the equity markets go up or down. One widely cited study was conducted in the late 1980's by three economists -- David M. Cutler and Lawrence H. Summers of Harvard (Mr. Summers is now Harvard's president) and James M. Poterba of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The professors found that news events accounted for a surprisingly small amount of the stock market's movements.
 None of this relieves investors of the need to view companies' financial data skeptically. At the same time, it's important to remain skeptical about our own analysis whenever we interpret the data differently than the market as a whole. More often than not, we're wrong.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Options and Earnings''Although they have fallen recently, expenses associated with employee stock options have been a significant portion of earnings for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.Graph tracks stock option expenses as percentage of reported earnings from 1996 to 2004.(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); STARTUPS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ETHICS (76%); BONDS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Accounting and Accountants; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



472 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SURFACING: Tacoma, Wash.; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Glass Adds Sheen to a Waterfront 

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
ON Friday nights, laughter and the rat-tat-tat of a cocktail shaker merge at the Blue Olive. This restaurant on the Tacoma waterfront is crowded with young people, many resting drinks on the strip of ice that runs along the U-shaped bar. 
 Rae Rich, who manages a medical practice, lives upstairs, in a new condo with a view of the water -- and the action. ''Trust me, if Tacoma weren't happening, I'd leave,'' Ms. Rich, a onetime resident of Southern California, said. 
Some of the crowd at the Blue Olive, 1715 Dock Street, (253) 383-7275, www.blueolive.net, will decamp for clubs like 21 Commerce, 21st and Commerce Streets, (253) 272-6278, www.21martinis.com, and the Loft, 2106 Pacific Avenue, (253) 404-0540. 
 The Blue Olive is part of a revived waterfront. Next door is the Museum of Glass, (866) 468-7386, www.museumofglass.org, and, beyond that, a mill-turned-lofts, with a pair of ''glass art'' galleries at ground level. The local obsession with glass is traceable to the artist Dale Chihuly, a Tacoma native who is the Northwest's answer to Elvis.
 A stairway on the museum's roof leads to the bridge of glass -- a pedestrian overpass decorated with thousands of pieces by Mr. Chihuly. The bridge is an effort not only to honor Tacoma's favorite son but also to make you forget you're crossing nine lanes of traffic and three train tracks, the wall that has separated Tacoma from its waterfront, hampering development for decades. 
 At the other end of the bridge are two more museums: the Tacoma Art Museum, www.tacomaartmuseum.org, designed by the Southwestern architect Antoine Predock; and the Washington State History Museum, www.wshs.org, in its own notable building by Arthur Andersson and the late Charles Moore.
 Across the street is the University of Washington, Tacoma, which has created a strikingly original campus out of a hillside dotted with abandoned industrial buildings. One classroom building is called the Mattress Factory, and a faded sign painted on the old bricks explains why.
 Nearby are several new restaurants, including El Gaucho, a steakhouse in a dramatic triple-height space. Residents are quick to point out that El Gaucho is a Seattle institution, and its decision to open a branch in Tacoma at 2119 Pacific Avenue, (253) 272- 1510, www.elgaucho.com, is evidence of the city's rebirth. (So is the number of people willing to pay $50 or more for a steak.)
 For years, Tacoma was Seattle's poor relation. As industry faded, its leading product was deserted buildings. Even Mr. Chihuly went to Seattle. Antiques stores, selling details stripped from Tacoma buildings, were one of the few reasons to exit the freeway.
 But then came an extraordinary investment in infrastructure. A train called the Sounder, for Puget Sound (www.soundtransit.org), makes the trip from Seattle, and it connects to the light rail that serves downtown Tacoma, passing all three museums and a handsome new convention center. Condos are going up everywhere, and some are selling for $1 million or more.
 At those prices, the old factory building at 24th and C Streets is worth a fortune. Mr. Chihuly bought it a couple of years ago and uses it for storage. With Tacoma rebounding, locals are hoping the building may someday become a Chihuly museum.
 Who knows? One of these nights, Mr. Chihuly himself might even show up at the Blue Olive.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Incidence'' by Buster Simpson on a terrace at the Museum of Glass on the Tacoma waterfront. (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times)Map of Washington highlighting Tacoma.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HISTORY (67%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (67%); CITY LIFE (64%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (61%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Art ; Glass

PERSON: Fred a Bernstein; Dale Chihuly

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Washington (State); Tacoma (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



473 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Elise Taft, Sam Morrissey

 BODY:
Elise Seymour Taft, the daughter of Cheryl and James P. Taft of Santa Ana, Calif., was married yesterday to Sam Gordon Morrissey, the son of Marcia L. Louis and the stepson of Charles A. Louis of Norwalk, Conn. David Seymour, a Universal Life minister and an uncle of the bride, officiated at the Bowers Museum of Cultural Art in Santa Ana. 
 Mrs. Morrissey, 25, is the bilingual school psychologist at Lincoln and Lakewood elementary schools in Richmond, Calif. She graduated from Santa Clara University and in May received a master's degree in educational psychology, magna cum laude, from San Francisco State University. Her father is the vice president of the Ganahl Lumber Company in Anaheim, Calif. Her mother teaches third grade at the Tustin Ranch Elementary School in Tustin, Calif.
 Mr. Morrissey, 28, works in San Francisco as a principal transportation engineer at Wilbur Smith Associates, a transportation planning, engineering and economics firm. He graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. His mother is a children's entertainer in Norwalk. His stepfather is the senior corporate fleet manager in Teaneck, N.J., at Givaudan Roure, the Swiss fragrance and flavors maker. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STEPPARENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GANAHL LUMBER CO (70%); WILBUR SMITH ASSOCIATES INC (56%); GIVAUDAN SA (55%)

TICKER: GIVN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); SIC5031 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK, & WOOD PANELS (70%); NAICS541370 SURVEYING & MAPPING (EXCEPT GEOPHYSICAL) SERVICES (56%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC8713 SURVEYING SERVICES (56%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



474 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Catskills Discover Life After Borscht

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Livingston Manor, N.Y. 

 BODY:
ONLY a local resident with a second home in the Twilight Zone could have predicted what has happened in this little Catskill hamlet over the last three years.
 Not long ago, Livingston Manor was Exhibit A for the familiar narrative of Catskill decline, a place where the hotels and bungalow colonies had long since died, which stayed on life support because of the 250 jobs at the local chicken plant. Then the plant died, too, leaving more than half the buildings on Main Street vacant and rendering even the chicken-plucker jokes out of date.
Now there's a bookstore, a Japanese art gallery, a designer coffee shop, a brand new TriBeCa-esque restaurant with the postmodern Catskill name of Resort and, most remarkably, a proposed $80 million mountaintop spa, resort and luxury housing complex that would also include housing for retirees and just plain folks as well. There's an elegant fly-fishing shop where you can buy Bradley classic-design reels and a building being converted to a gym for Pilates and Jazzercise. 
 There's an annual Dada trout parade and a large gay population. At the moment, there's a Hieronymus Bosch-meets-Marvel Comics installation by the artist David Sandlin that would never have fit the design scheme at Grossinger's.
 Who knows if this vision of a hip neo-Catskills as TriBeCa with hills, trees and chiggers ever comes to fruition? (All that talk of the Catskills as the new Hamptons might engender some there-goes-the-neighborhood sentiments anyway.) And very little of it would have happened had not a rich Wall Street investor, Andy Krieger, who has a home here, decided to invest a lot of time and money in the town's Main Street. He's the one who two weeks ago unveiled the resort and luxury housing project, proposed for 286 acres here.
 Still, after a year in which the Catskills' historic casino anxiety approached nervous breakdown levels, Livingston Manor is the Catskills in caricature these days. While the question of whether casinos will save or ruin the Catskills plays out like a never-ending Supreme Court confirmation battle here, the Catskills have done just fine, thank you, without them.
 You needed daily dispatches to keep track over the past year -- one casino, three casinos, five casinos, the proposals came and went with Albany, in the end, approving no casinos, leaving the issue where it has been for a half-century. Proponents say this time the Catskills will get the balance right: casinos as part of the picture, not a way to recreate the old resort hotels, which were once the whole economic ballgame. Critics say casinos will be black holes, sucking in visitors, traffic and congestion without benefiting anyone other than the casino operators. 
 But while the debate has gone on, Sullivan County has become the second-fastest-growing county in the state. Between second homes, telecommuters, the spillover from booming Orange County and a low-level buzz about things like the new performing arts center at the old Woodstock site, its economic prospects seem increasingly untethered from the idea that the new casinos will replace the old resorts.
 ''I'm indifferent when it comes to the casinos,'' Mr. Krieger said. ''I could argue it both ways, but I believe in the cyclicality of markets and regions, and this area has too much going for it not to come back. I just hope it comes back sensibly.''
 Even at low ebb, the notion of cyclicality was wired into many people here. Take the Foster family.
 The first generation came to the Catskills in the 30's and ran a bungalow colony on Lake Waneta. The second generation had a building company in the Catskills' heyday, when Red Buttons would come over for dinner. Barry Foster, now 63 and Generation 3, was a teacher and principal in the local schools who saw the resorts prosper and then die, and his children grew up in a depressed town haunted by the ghosts of the good old days.
 Now Mr. Foster runs Hot Corner Sports Collectibles on Main Street. His sons Sims, 29, and Ryan, 31, run Peez Leweez, the coffee shop, and Resort. Sims Foster said he left a job as general manager of Lotus, the restaurant and bar in Manhattan, to gamble on a place he once thought he had left for good. No one's making much money yet, but they all figure it's worth a shot.
 ''We're basing a lot of this on hope and faith and some evidence,'' Sims Foster said. ''Thirty-six months ago this place was desolate. That's a pretty quick turnaround. So it's inevitable this is going to happen, but if I fear anything it's being able to hang in there until the day it's all here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Main Street in Livingston Manor, N.Y., can seem like a trip back to the old days, but would Red Buttons recognize the Japanese art gallery or designer coffee shop? (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 Barry Foster's forebears moved to the Catskill Mountains in the 1930's and ran a bungalow colony. Mr. Foster, a former teacher and school principal, now owns a sports memorabilia shop in Livingston Manor, and his sons run their own businesses nearby. (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); TRENDS (77%); CASINOS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); POULTRY PROCESSING (76%); POULTRY (76%); BOOKSTORES (75%); LITERATURE (72%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); SPORT FISHING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%) Art ; Books and Literature; Restaurants; Casinos; Geographic Profiles ; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Livingston Manor (NY); Livingston Manor (NY); Catskill Mountains; Sullivan County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



475 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Cigarettes, Taxes and Thin French Women

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
THE obesity epidemic isn't just a growing health risk; it's also a problem for the economy. The percentage of Americans over 20 who are regarded as obese has more than doubled, to about 30 percent, from about 14 percent in the early 1970's. And the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says obesity was responsible for 112,000 premature deaths in 2002, and for $75 billion in medical costs in 2003. 
 But as the United States lost the battle against the bulge, it waged a more successful campaign against another menace to public health: smoking. Because of an aggressive public information campaign, new restrictive laws and huge increases in federal and state taxes, the percentage of the population that smoked fell to 22.5 percent in 2002, from 37 percent in 1970. 
Strange as it may sound at first, many economists and health care experts say they believe that the two trends may be related. Experts blame factors ranging from urban sprawl to junk-food-laden diets for the increase in the number of Americans who are obese -- defined as having a body mass index of over 30. 
 But smoking, or the decline of smoking, may also play a role. Nicotine is a stimulant, which means that smokers burn calories faster. And it's an appetite suppressant, which means that smokers eat less. Consider ''French Women Don't Get Fat,'' the best selling book. Some critics said that the real reason chic Parisian women stayed trim while gorging themselves on croissants was that they smoked more than their American counterparts. 
 Indeed, conventional wisdom, soundly rooted in the personal experience of millions of former smokers and in several studies, has long held that short-term weight gain is the price to be paid for quitting smoking. But economists are increasingly applying their tools to measure the way monetary incentives, or disincentives, affect all sorts of human behavior -- and hence the ability of government policy to alter it. And they've been wondering whether high cigarette taxes, which are intended to encourage people to quit smoking, may have the unintended effect of redirecting them from one form of unhealthy behavior to another.
 According to William Orzechowski and Rob Walker, two economic consultants based in Arlington, Va., the price of a pack of cigarettes rose to $3.37 a pack in 2001 from 63 cents in 1980, thanks in large measure to various state and federal tax increases. (Adjusted for inflation, that's a 164 percent gain.) And smokers responded the way any economically rational consumer would, despite the fact that many felt as if they were addicted: they stopped using the product as it became more expensive. Broadly speaking, said Michael Grossman, an economics professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, a 10 percent increase in the price of cigarettes leads to a 5 percent reduction in cigarette consumption.
 But the fear of gaining weight as a result of quitting may have discouraged some smokers from stopping -- and apparently with good reason. In a 2004 study, Professor Grossman, along with Shin-Yi Chou of Lehigh University and Inas Rashad of Georgia State, mined state-by-state behavioral surveys from 1984 to 1999 to get to the root causes of rising obesity. While they found that the prevalence of fast-food restaurants was responsible for most of the climb, they concluded that the decline in smoking accounted for about 20 percent of it. Over all, they found that ''each 10 percent increase in the real price of cigarettes produces a 2 percent increase in the number of obese people, other things being equal.''
 Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, didn't believe that the relationship between lower smoking and higher obesity rates was so direct. While people may gain weight when they quit smoking, they tend to shed those pounds later. ''There's no evidence in the medical literature that quitting smoking will affect your weight over a long period of time,'' he said. And by themselves, the short-term weight gains associated with smoking shouldn't be enough to push masses of former smokers into obesity. 
 Professor Gruber, with the assistance of Michael Frakes, a Ph.D. student, analyzed the same numbers that Professors Grossman, Chou and Rashad did, but with different methodology. Rather than focusing on the way prices affected consumption, Professor Gruber looked at how people living in different states reacted when state cigarette taxes were sharply increased. He also ignored factors like the number of fast-food restaurants. His method allowed him to isolate the way sudden government-imposed price increases affected consumer behavior. And when he compared the results with obesity figures in the states, he reached a surprising conclusion. ''Raising cigarette taxes causes smoking to fall, but it doesn't lead to obesity,'' Professor Gruber said. ''If anything, it was lower.''
 There are a maze of possibilities for this explanation -- beyond economics. Perhaps the conventional wisdom is wrong about stopping smoking and gaining weight. Or perhaps people who quit smoking decide at the same time to start exercising more and to watch their weight. Professor Grossman finds the results intriguing, but he is not prepared to embrace them wholeheartedly. ''If you come up with a counterintuitive finding like this,'' he said, ''you have to ask if you've gone too far.''
 Professor Gruber says his results need further testing. But if borne out, the findings would add to the evidence in favor of high cigarette taxes. After all, what other act of government has been shown to raise needed government revenue and discourage citizens from engaging in an expensive, unhealthful habit -- all while helping them shed a few pounds? 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)Chart: ''A Trade-Off?''Economists are studying whether there is a causal relationship between the decline in smoking and the increase in obesity in the United States.Graph tracks the obesity rate+ and smoking rate* in the United States from 1970 to 2002.*Percentage of people over 18 who smoke.+Percentage of people over 20 who are obese -- those with a body mass index over 30.(Source by National Bureau of Economic Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); SMOKING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DIETING (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMOKING CESSATION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); BESTSELLERS (50%) Smoking and Tobacco; Weight; Diet and Nutrition

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (58%)

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



476 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: A Softer Look for a Dark Campus

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
TO soften the harshness of the school's modernistic architecture, officials at the SUNY College at Purchase have broken ground on a multicolored, U-shaped dormitory that will form a courtyard on campus and also have storefronts, to give it a small-town feeling. 
 ''We want to create a sense of place, a college town, in the very rigid geometry of the school,'' said Douglas B. Hyde, a principal with Einhorn Yaffee Prescott Architecture and Engineering, the firm overseeing the design of the new dorm.
The $21 million four-story building is part of a $75 million capital improvement program that will, among other things, reduce the institutional appearance of the stark-looking modernistic campus.
 The original design for the 34-year-old college, which is part of the State University of New York, was drawn with an eye toward functionality rather than frills, under a master plan developed by the architect Edward Larrabee Barnes, using nine architectural firms. 
 Situated on 500 acres of former farmland, the campus features a dark brown brick plaza lined with similarly brown brick buildings. While the inherent serviceability of the buildings has endured, the aesthetic of unrelenting dark brick has proved increasingly difficult to live with over time, said Mr. Hyde, whose firm specializes in residence halls, classrooms, science buildings and libraries at colleges and universities.
 This is so, despite a distinguished list of designers. The campus's buildings include the noted Neuberger Museum, which was designed by Philip Johnson and John Burgee. The architects for the other buildings included Robert Siegel and Charles Gwathmey, Paul Rudolph, Gunnar Birkerts and the Architects Collaborative. Mr. Barnes designed the Performing Arts Center, which is at one end of the brick corridor and forms the campus's main entrance. 
 But especially during the winter months, the stark, somewhat desolate look of the architecture can become overbearing, observed Thomas J. Schwarz, the college's president. ''Particularly in January and February,'' he said, ''things look pretty depressing around here.'' 
 In addition to relieving the austerity of the architecture, Mr. Schwarz said, the goal now is to erect new buildings that contribute more of a feeling of community. ''It's all somewhat disjointed now,'' he said. ''There's no 'there' there, no heart to the college, no place for the kids to hang out.''
 The designers said that to foster the small-town feeling, they are applying the planning concepts of New Urbanism. This approach calls for a mix of shops, offices and residences joined by narrow pedestrian-friendly roadways; most often, it is applied to residential areas. 
 At the campus, the new 96,000-square-foot U-shaped dormitory has been situated among the college's 24 older buildings to form a courtyard on one side, said Mr. Hyde, whose architectural firm has offices in Albany, Boston, New York City and Washington.
 ''Barnes created a city in the country,'' Mr. Hyde explained. ''That was part of his concept. But the charge for this project is to create a college town within that city, with perhaps a bistro, a place to stop after going to the theater, a copy center and a bookstore. Even a small pharmacy is possible.'' No decisions have been made yet on the exact lineup of stores. 
 Being built on the largest parcel of open space on the Purchase campus, the new dormitory is intended to link the property's early use as an agricultural site with the midcentury architecture, and with possible future uses. Formerly Strathglass Farm, the land once belonged to Thomas Thomas, a Revolutionary War hero, whose family cemetery is on the property.
 Mr. Hyde said the new dormitory would have red brick on one side and white brick on another -- the former reminiscent of the early farm buildings, the latter in contrast to the dark brick used by Barnes.
 When the dormitory, which is to house 314 students, is completed in the fall of 2006, the college will be able to provide housing for 2,600 of its 4,200 students.
 Enrollment has remained steady, but the college is adding housing to accommodate more students on campus, according to Geraldine Sanderson, a spokeswoman for the school. In the past, she said, ''it was more of a commuter campus; that's changing.''
 The current project is the third residential development in three years at the college, which was established to integrate the arts and the liberal arts, said Christopher Gavlick, who is overseeing the improvement and construction of residences and academic buildings.
 The Dormitory Authority of State of New York, which was created in 1944 as a public benefit corporation to finance and construct dormitories for state teachers' colleges, is in charge of the financing and approval of the construction.
 One campus building, long used for storage of equipment and recently converted to a student union, is being reconfigured. Another building is under construction to house offices for the registrar, bursar and student loan personnel. Also, the library's main entrance is being moved to the central plaza, which is becoming the focus of activity on campus. 
 In a related effort several years ago to relieve the architectural starkness of the campus's buildings, Purchase spent $3 million in state money to overhaul its five-theater Performing Arts Center, a windowless brick structure that some critics said resembled a nuclear power plant. Among other things, new carpeting was installed over stone floors in the arts center's lobbies, interior walls were painted bright colors and colorful lights and banners were installed outside.
 Looking ahead, Mr. Schwarz is pressing for construction of a retirement community on the college campus, where less than a third of the acreage has been developed. Under a preliminary proposal, residents living there would take classes, attend performances at the Performing Arts Center and frequent the museum, becoming docents, tour guides and consultants, the president said. But the proposal, which is in very early stages, has already encountered opposition in Albany.
 The president noted, however, that senior housing is consistent with the principles of New Urbanism, in terms of achieving more than just academic goals and bringing different groups together to enhance a college's relevance to the community around it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NOT BROWN BRICK -- A rendering of the proposed dormitory, which is to house 314 students. The first floor of the 96,000-square-foot building will hold stores. (Photo by Einhorn Yaffee Prescott Architecture and Engineering)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Brenner, Elsa; Colleges and Universities; Architecture; Dormitories

COMPANY: EINHORN YAFFEE PRESCOTT ARCHITECTURE & ENGINEERING PC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Purchase

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



477 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Better Transit for All New Yorkers

 BODY:
Five years ago, state voters rejected a transportation bond issue mainly because upstate residents thought it was skewed to help New York City. State politicians now appear ready to do a better job of selling the needs of downstate transit by stressing the parallel needs of upstate transit. They will ask voters to approve a $2.9 billion bond package in November that would balance $1.45 billion for the New York City area with another $1.45 billion for the rest of the state. 
 It could be argued that a bond issue favoring the metropolitan rail and subway system would yield important benefits to New Yorkers elsewhere in the state, including its northernmost reaches. The city, after all, funnels considerable revenue into state coffers, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority moves the workers needed to keep the city's economic engine humming.
 But that argument does not sit well upstate. So to bolster support outside the city, the state's transportation department has put out a five-year capital plan that includes money for a host of upstate projects -- bike paths and pedestrian walkways, bridge repairs, and the roads and highways that serve as upstate's vital arteries. Not all of this can be accomplished, even with $1.45 billion, but the bonds would certainly help.
 At the same time, money from the bond issue would shore up the authority's capital plan with $900 million for the Second Avenue subway and another $900 million for the link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal. 
 The one rub is that the plan would spend an additional $100 million on further study of what would be a very expensive rail link between Lower Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport. That study may well confirm what most people suspect: that downtowners should instead be able to take the PATH train swiftly and directly to Newark Liberty International Airport.
 But none of this work will be done unless voters approve the bond issue in November. There is always concern that upstate voters will take one look at the request, even though it is way down on the ballot, and just vote no. To avoid that slippage, Gov. George E. Pataki and powerful upstate Republicans must campaign openly for this bond issue, not pretend, as they sometimes do, that it is not there.
 This should be an easy decision for voters in the New York metropolitan area. The defeat of the bond issue five years ago contributed greatly to the authority's recent financial problems. And other proposals floating around that would use federal money to underwrite the authority's borrowing needs have the feel of a high-interest credit card that makes you pay for 10 sofas on top of the one you actually bought. 
 By contrast, the bond issue -- which has the support of Comptroller Alan Hevesi, the state's fiscal watchdog -- represents a prudent, straightforward and transparent strategy that should help move the authority to more solid financial ground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CITIES (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%) Transportation; Finances; Government Bonds; Editorials; Transit Systems; Railroads; Referendums

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



478 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Better Transit for All New Yorkers

 BODY:
Five years ago, state voters rejected a transportation bond issue mainly because upstate residents thought it was skewed to help New York City. State politicians now appear ready to do a better job of selling the needs of downstate transit by stressing the parallel needs of upstate transit. They will ask voters to approve a $2.9 billion bond package in November that would balance $1.45 billion for the New York City area with another $1.45 billion for the rest of the state. 
 It could be argued that a bond issue favoring the metropolitan rail and subway system would yield important benefits to New Yorkers elsewhere. The city, after all, funnels considerable revenue into state coffers, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority moves the workers needed to keep the city's economic engine humming.
But that argument does not sit well upstate. So in order to bolster support outside the city, the state's transportation department has put out a five-year capital plan that includes money for a host of upstate projects -- bike paths and pedestrian walkways, bridge repairs, roads and highways. 
 At the same time, money from the bond issue would shore up the authority's capital plan with $900 million for the Second Avenue subway and another $900 million for the link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal. The one rub is that the plan would spend an additional $100 million on further study of what would be a very expensive rail link between Lower Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport. That study may well confirm what most people suspect: that downtowners should instead be able to take the PATH train swiftly and directly to Newark Liberty International Airport.
 But none of this work will be done unless voters approve the bond issue in November. There is always concern that upstate voters will take one look at the request, even though it is way down on the ballot, and just vote no. To avoid that slippage, Gov. George E. Pataki and powerful upstate Republicans must campaign openly for this bond issue. 
 The measure should of course be an easy call for the metropolitan area. The bond issue defeat five years ago contributed greatly to the authority's recent financial woes. And other proposals floating around that would use federal money to underwrite the authority's borrowing needs have the feel of a high-interest credit card that makes you pay for 10 sofas on top of the one you actually bought. 
 The bond issue, by contrast, is a prudent, straightforward and transparent strategy that should help move the authority to more solid financial ground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CITIES (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%) Transportation; Finances; Government Bonds; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



479 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Smoother Rides for All New Yorkers

 BODY:
Five years ago, state voters rejected a transportation bond issue mainly because upstate residents thought it was skewed to help New York City. State politicians now appear ready to do a better job of selling the needs of downstate transit by stressing the parallel needs of upstate transit. They will ask voters to approve a $2.9 billion bond package in November that would balance $1.45 billion for the New York City area with another $1.45 billion for the rest of the state. 
 It could be argued that a bond issue favoring the metropolitan rail and subway system would yield important benefits to New Yorkers elsewhere in the state, including its northernmost reaches. The city, after all, funnels considerable revenue into state coffers, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority moves the workers needed to keep the city's economic engine humming. But that argument does not sit well upstate, especially in communities where people work hard for the minimum wage and think a $2 cup of coffee is for spoiled city spendthrifts.
To bolster support outside the city, the state's transportation department has put out a five-year capital plan -- a wish list that runs over 120 pages. The plan includes money for bike paths and pedestrian walkways from Buffalo to Nassau County and for bridge repairs over upstate streams. Upstate's vital arteries, its roads and highways, would also get a healthy share of the pot. Not all of this can be accomplished, even with $1.45 billion, but the bonds would certainly help.
 At the same time, money from the bond issue would shore up the authority's capital plan with $900 million for the Second Avenue subway and another $900 million for the link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal. 
 The one rub is that the plan would spend an additional $100 million on further study of what would be a very expensive rail link between Lower Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport. That study may well confirm what most people suspect: that downtowners should instead be able to take the PATH train swiftly and directly to Newark Liberty International Airport.
 But none of this work will be done unless voters approve the bond issue in November. There is always concern that upstate voters will take one look at the request, even though it is way down on the ballot, and just vote no. To avoid that slippage, Gov. George E. Pataki and powerful upstate Republicans must campaign openly for this bond issue, not pretend, as they sometimes do, that it is not there.
 The measure should of course be an easy call for the metropolitan area. The defeat of the bond issue five years ago contributed greatly to the authority's recent financial problems. And other proposals floating around that would use federal money to underwrite the authority's borrowing needs have the feel of a high-interest credit card that makes you pay for 10 sofas on top of the one you actually bought.
 The bond issue, by contrast, is a prudent, straightforward and transparent strategy that should help move the authority to more solid financial ground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CITIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (51%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%) Transportation; Finances; Government Bonds; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



480 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 7-24-05: ENCOUNTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: The Question of Rescue

BYLINE: By Matt Steinglass. 
Matt Steinglass is a writer based in Hanoi.

 BODY:
In early May, when the government of Brazil rejected $40 million in American AIDS financing because of restrictions the United States would have imposed on groups that work with prostitutes, Rosanna Barbero gave a quiet cheer. She had been there before. Barbero is the head of Womyn's Agenda for Change, the leading advocacy organization for sex workers in Cambodia. WAC teaches the country's many prostitutes to organize and to improve their working conditions, and it has spun off a sex workers' union that now claims 5,000 members. Starting in 2001, the U.S. Agency for International Development supported Barbero, with about $73,000 over three years. Then in 2003 Congress mandated that any organization receiving U.S.A.I.D. assistance declare that it ''does not promote, support or advocate the legalization or practice of prostitution.'' Technically, WAC doesn't do any of this, but in practice, it would have had to break with the sex workers' union. Barbero went to the union's elected leaders -- five women and two srey sros, or transvestite/transsexuals -- to ask what they thought she should do.
 ''They said don't take the money,'' she recalls. ''I remember one said: 'Do they think we're worse than dogs? How can they tell us all this time that we have to stand on our own two feet, and now suddenly say they can't work with us?''' 
 Barbero, 40, is a diminutive Australian with a singsong accent, a warm, informal, hippie-ish air and a gift for the creative use of obscenity -- something you acquire, apparently, in her line of work. When she first came to Cambodia in 1992, she had no intention of working with prostitutes; she was doing research for her thesis in Asian studies. What she found was that peacekeepers and aid workers affiliated with the United Nations were fueling a sudden explosion in prostitution. Assessing the situation, she came to see sex work as an understandable, if far from ideal, response to poverty: ''If you have nothing, what do you do? You sell sex. That's what's left.''
 WAC is a kind of nonjudgmental, antiauthoritarian sanctuary for these women. Its headquarters, a double-decker barge moored on the Tonle Sap River, was previously a floating discotheque -- one of those, in fact, where Barbero used to watch U.N. peacekeepers cruise for girls. Now a visitor might find anywhere from a half-dozen to 50 women sitting in a circle on the dance floor, holding a meeting. Some might be prostitutes discussing how to avoid being raped, while others might be laid-off seamstresses brainstorming about a campaign against Levi's. (WAC also works with garment workers.)
 ''This is one of the most amazing things you'll ever see,'' Barbero told me on one visit, pointing to the anti-Levi's garment workers, who were working on a mobilization strategy. ''You can't do a demonstration in Cambodia. So they've decided to form a girl band.''
 By tacitly accepting sex workers' choice of livelihood, WAC stands on one side of a growing divide among aid groups. Since the U.S.'s policy shift, more and more of the other groups working with sex workers in Cambodia are what are often known as ''rescue'' organizations. The rescue groups, like Agir Pour les Femmes en Situation Precaire and the Christian evangelical International Justice Mission, contend that sex work is virtually always oppressive and that many or most prostitutes are trafficked into the business against their wills. Both organizations investigate brothels for evidence of trafficking and assist the Cambodian police in carrying out spectacular raids, springing prostitutes into safe houses where those who wish to leave sex work are given vocational training, often as seamstresses. The two groups receive substantial U.S.A.I.D. money.
 These raids are controversial. After one A.F.E.S.I.P. rescue on Dec. 7, an unidentified mob attacked the group's safe house and spirited the rescued sex workers back to the hotel where they had been working. Some days later, the unrescued women protested in front of the U.S. Embassy, claiming they had not wanted to be rescued at all. The protest appeared to have been stage-managed by the hotel's owners, but it illustrated how hard it is to determine whether sex workers are in brothels by choice or under duress. 
 No one questions the rescue groups' bravery, but many criticize their strategy. Rescue groups focus on prostitutes who are ''trafficked'': those who are under-age, have been tricked into sex work or are held captive by force or in debt bondage. But such cases are a minority. A 2002 U.S.A.I.D.-backed study found that 20 percent of the sex workers the researchers encountered directly were trafficked. But because of sample bias, the study's author, Thomas Steinfatt, says that he thinks the countrywide percentage is much lower. Another study of Vietnamese migrant sex workers, who make up about half of the prostitutes in Phnom Penh, found that 94 in 100 had sought out the work aware of the conditions they would be working in.
 Barbero supports freeing children and women held forcibly but finds most other rescue operations futile: ''You're rescuing somebody and putting them back into the same situation'' that drove them to sex work in the first place. The Cambodian Women's Crisis Center acknowledges that of 48 trafficking victims it helped return to their homes in 2004, some 40 percent have already gone back to sex work. As for vocational training, Barbero says, sex workers ''are all pretty damn sick of 'We'll put you in front of sewing machines 14 hours a day and make you a better woman.''' 
 If rescuing sex workers isn't the answer, what is? Barbero's response is an odd mixture of realism and utopianism. Realistically, she argues, Cambodian women will never have an alternative to the sex industry until the economy improves. But like many in the antiglobalization movement, she faults the policies of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization for the country's poverty. Barbero has a quixotic faith that different global-development policies could lift Cambodia out of the economic misery that drives women to sex work.
 Whatever the merits of its global politics, WAC is widely seen as the most effective organization in its field in Cambodia. In concert with the sex workers' union, WAC helps sex workers protect themselves from violent clients and predatory policemen. And it helps them reach out to hospital workers so they aren't refused when they seek treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. If Barbero had taken U.S.A.I.D.'s antiprostitution pledge, she would have sacrificed the quality that her constituents most value: a willingness to accept them as they are. 
 As U.S.A.I.D. forces the pledge upon antitrafficking and anti-AIDS organizations, an increasing number are starting to protest: in May, 171 N.G.O.'s signed a letter opposing it. Congressional supporters of the pledge seek to keep U.S.A.I.D. money from ''groups who promote prostitution overseas,'' as Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, recently wrote to the secretary of state. Rosanna Barbero hardly sees herself in that description; she says she hopes to see the Cambodian sex industry disappear, but she holds that this will be impossible until the country's overall welfare improves.
 ''You're sitting in the West in a comfortable situation, and you think of those girls, Oh, they have to [have sex with] 10 men a day, how disgusting,'' she told me the first time we spoke. ''As a woman, you think, How awful. But after years of developing friendships with sex workers, I see them as unsung heroes. Most of us, to survive in the awful situations that they've had to survive in, we probably couldn't do it. We have never been in a situation where we've had to consider, Do I sell my body or not?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosanna Barbero, left, with garment workers at the Womyn's Agenda for Change office. (Photograph by Philip Blenkinsop)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PEACEKEEPING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%) Prostitution; Organized Labor; Prostitution

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) Agency for International Development; Womyn's Agenda for Change (Orgn)

PERSON: Rosanna Barbero

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); CAMBODIA (92%) Cambodia

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



481 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Green Machine That Could Be Detroit

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. ;E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IMAGINE that you are running a domestic automaker. Rising gasoline prices threaten your lucrative S.U.V. sales, a glut of car-making capacity promises ever more competition, and burdensome union contracts limit your ability to cut costs. Then there are the Chinese. They're beginning to put together the parts they've been making for years, and sooner rather than later, whole cars from China will arrive at scarily low prices.
 What do you do? The easy answer is to follow the path that Detroit has taken for years. Grind out well-made but ho-hum vehicles and offer them at huge discounts. Let your debt rating fall below investment grade. And when California tries to impose mandatory reductions in greenhouse gases, you sue, even if some other states want the same stricter standards -- and even if some consumers are lining up to pay hefty premiums for energy-saving hybrid vehicles that run on both gasoline and electricity. 
Now I'm the first to acknowledge that without a C.E.O.-sized paycheck, I am far from qualified to run a major manufacturing business. But isn't it possible that Ford and General Motors are on the wrong path?
 What if one of them decided to break from the pack? What if a major automaker decided to reinvent itself as the world's first and only green car company, producing only hybrid, clean-diesel and other high-efficiency vehicles? Not Birkenstocks on wheels, mind you, but enjoyable, functional cars that get great mileage. 
 Consider the advantages. Such a company could drive down the cost of producing hybrids by attaining economies of scale. It would be ready -- nay, eager -- to comply with stringent clean-air rules wherever they were imposed. It would be positioned to exploit the federal mandate for low-sulfur diesel fuel, which will open the door next year to cleaner-burning diesel engines. And it would no longer have to compete as much on price, because consumers have shown a willingness to pay more for more efficient cars.
 So imagine that you're in charge of this company. From a marketing perspective, you're in heaven. To the environmentally conscious, you sell the prospect of saving the earth even as you appeal to the class vanity of affluent customers who might otherwise never dream of buying an American car. Are there many of these people? You may be surprised. As a proxy, consider the number of National Public Radio listeners: 26 million. Your motto with this crowd is simple: ''Do the right thing.'' 
 But the beauty of your venture is that it can also appeal to meat-eating S.U.V. owners. To them, you sell self-sufficiency, patriotism and the war on terror -- the satisfaction of telling foreign oil producers to take their oil and drown in it. And your motto can still be ''Do the right thing.''
 Your vehicles will certainly have cachet. After all, hybrids are already de rigueur for some movie stars and their imitators in Los Angeles. Imagine having the brand that encapsulates enviro-chic all over the world. This is marketing that money can't buy.
 But isn't there a danger here -- that your company will become just a niche player? I don't think so. New vehicles with hybrid electric engines are expected to grab 3.5 percent of domestic sales by 2012, up from 0.5 percent last year, while clean diesels are expected to get 7.5 percent, up from 3 percent, according to J.D. Power-LMC Automotive Forecasting Services. Together, the projected total is 11 percent. For perspective, Toyota's market share last year was 12.2 percent and Honda's was 8.2 percent. 
 There was a hint the other day that Ford just might get it. In the automotive equivalent of those Peaceable Kingdom paintings in which predator and prey lie side by side, the Sierra Club joined Ford Motor to promote a new hybrid version of the Mercury Mariner sport utility vehicle. Unfortunately, Ford will make only a relative handful of the hybrid Mariners.
 O.K., but aren't there technological barriers to building a clean car company? Could a major automaker retool itself this way culturally as well as physically? Sure it can. It would be costly, but there is precedent. The entire American auto industry retooled itself to emphasize quality, and it now makes some of the most dependable cars in the world. Maybe the best way for an automaker to manage this latest transition would be to build a new brand, the way G.M. once did with Saturn. In this new case, however, the brand would consume the parent company.
 Business as usual isn't an option. Change is risky, but in this case the consequences of doing nothing are a sure bet -- one that I personally wouldn't want to take.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ed Schnurr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (54%); PUBLIC RADIO (50%) Automobiles; Diesel Power; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



482 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Is on the Menu Of More Workers' 401(k)'s

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
CORPORATE pension funds have plowed billions of dollars into commercial property over the years, buying everything from strip malls to landmark high-rises as they sought to diversify and build their portfolios. 
 Employees, though, have had few opportunities to invest in real estate through the retirement plans they finance themselves, like 401(k)'s. These so-called defined-contribution plans offer mainly stock and bond funds.
But that is changing. Plan sponsors have been looking for new alternatives in light of Wall Street's uneven performance of recent years, and some are finding them in mutual funds that hold real estate investment trusts, or REIT's -- companies with portfolios of commercial property. 
 ''I certainly see the makings of a trend in recommending REIT mutual funds,'' which have been stellar performers, said Evan Miller, a partner at Hogan & Hartson, a law firm in Washington that represents major pension plans.
 Kelly Rush, director of portfolio management at Principal Global Investors, a unit of the Principal Financial Group, agreed: ''We are seeing an increase in interest among our clients. The trend has been steady, but I wouldn't characterize it as overwhelming.'' 
 Indeed, while large 401(k) plan vendors like Principal Financial and Fidelity Investments make real estate investments available, only 15.6 percent of plans, including those from a few large companies like Verizon and General Motors, have real estate options on their menus, according to figures released last week by the Profit Sharing/401(k) Council of America. Five years ago, the rate was less than half that level. 
 At Principal Financial, almost 6.5 percent of the defined-contribution plans it manages now have a REIT option, compared with virtually none three years ago.
 Some defined-contribution plans allow participants to invest in REIT's and REIT funds through self-directed brokerage accounts, though benefits advisers speculate that few have a significant presence in real estate. About 16 percent of companies offer self-directed options in their 401(k)'s, up from 14 percent in 2003, according to a study released last month by Hewitt Associates, the benefits consulting firm.
 Why the reluctance? Most plan participants are averse to tinkering with asset allocation, Mr. Miller explained, and ''during the go-go 90's, there was no economic incentive to look outside the stock market.''
 ''It wasn't until the three-year decline in domestic equities,'' he added, ''that 401(k) consultants were forced to confront the issue.'' 
 He noted, too, that REIT funds ''were almost nonexistent in the early 1990's,'' and said that it was only in the last several years that REIT's themselves matured as investment vehicles appropriate for a 401(k) plan. Dozens of publicly traded real estate funds are now available.
 REIT's, which disburse almost all of their profits as dividends, continue to outpace many stocks and bonds, returning 8.65 percent so far this year and more than 20 percent, annualized, over the last five years. 
 Their biggest appeal is that they tend not to move in tandem with other financial securities, advisers say. ''In the last decade or so, they have really taken on the characteristic of real estate,'' said Michael Henkel, president of Ibbotson Associates, the financial consulting firm, which studied three decades of data and found the correlation between REIT's and other investments low and declining. ''REIT's diversify the investments,'' he said.
 Not everyone, however, thinks they deserve a place in employer-sponsored retirement savings plans. 
 ''The real diversification is in direct real estate,'' said Pamela M. Hess, a defined-contribution consultant for Hewitt Associates, who sees REIT funds as just another hot fund sector, much as technology was in the 90's, rather than a separate asset class. ''REIT's have done very well, and it concerns me that the valuations are quite high,'' she said. ''Will that continue in the next five years?''
 Jonathan Pond, a financial adviser from Watertown, Mass., says he also worries that it may be too late to jump on the real estate bandwagon, although he recommends that those with moderate to aggressive investment strategies have 5 to 10 percent in real estate, whether individual REIT's, REIT funds or stocks of real estate-related companies. When deciding on investment allocations in retirement savings plans, he said, investors should consider all their holdings. Some people, he says, may already have a large exposure to real estate -- in their homes. 
 Still, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts says that defined-contribution plans are an untapped market for commercial real estate and that REIT's remain an important ingredient in a balanced portfolio. 
 Over the last two years, the association has met with dozens of plan providers and investment consulting firms to push for more REIT options. Human-resources managers and plan participants have been receptive, said Michael Grupe, a senior vice president and director of research and investment affairs for the group. ''But what they run into oftentimes is a long process,'' he said. ''The fact is that you can't just make an executive decision to change a plan. There are committees involved and presentations to the board.'' 
 Mr. Grupe, meanwhile, scoffs at any comparison between real estate and technology. ''Real estate represents something technology doesn't -- and that is hard assets,'' he said. ''At the end of the day you still have the office buildings and shopping centers.''
 REIT's are more like ''a hybrid investment,'' he added: ''The dividends make it look like a bond, but it's also a stock.'' 
 Plan sponsors considering a REIT option should make sure employees understand how the investment works, said Mr. Henkel at Ibbotson.
 After releasing the results of his firm's recent study, he decided to offer a REIT fund to his own 150 employees through Fidelity. ''If it makes sense for the investors we advise,'' he said, ''then why not add it to our plan?''
 Employees seem to be glad he did. John Thompson Jr., one of the company's senior consultants, says the Fidelity Real Estate Investment Portfolio, into which 3 percent of his assets were allocated, has been a star performer in his 401(k).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Henkel, president of Ibbotson Associates, added a real estate fund to Ibbotson's 401(k) after a study by the firm found that REIT's enhance a portfolio. ''If it makes sense for the investors we advise,'' he said, ''then why not add it to our plan?'' (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)Chart: ''The REIT Surge''Real estate investment trusts have been stellar performers in recent years.Graphs tracks compound annual rate of return for REIT's and bonds, small-cap stocks and large-cap stocks since 1972.(Source by Ibbotson Associates)Chart: ''A Growing Option''More defined-contribution plans are offering real estate as an investment option.Graph tracks Percentage of profit-sharing and 401(k) plans making a real estate fund available as a plan investment from 1995 to 2004.(Source by Profit Sharing/401[k] Council of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); US 401K PLANS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); TRENDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); AON HEWITT (84%); HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (56%); PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: PFG (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



483 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Deadline Deals Create Ripples 

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
IF you have nothing better to do on a hot summer day, figure out the link among David Cone, David Wells, Randy Johnson, Curt Schilling, Jon Garland, Keith Foulke, Mark McGwire, Nomar Garciaparra, Scott Rolen, Jason Varitek, Aaron Boone, Dave Roberts and Jason Bay.
 Time's up. They were all traded in the equivalent week -- between now and next Sunday -- in the past decade.
Yes, this is the week when division races, even the World Series winner, could be determined. It's also the week in which an unheralded minor leaguer will be traded, only to surface in several years as a major league star. Bay, for example, was traded by the Mets to San Diego three years ago next Sunday as a Class AA outfielder. Two weeks ago he was an All-Star for the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
 Some July trades have already been made this season. Barely into the month, the Yankees acquired two pitchers, Tim Redding and Darrell May, from San Diego. They have already started games for the Yankees and been dispatched to the minors for their efforts. The Yankees also obtained Al Leiter last Saturday, and he beat the Red Sox the next day.
 Next Sunday, July 31, is the deadline for teams to make trades without first securing waivers on the players. The past two seasons produced memorable deals.
 In 2003 the Yankees acquired Boone, and two and a half months later he hit a home run against Boston that propelled the Yankees into the World Series. But turnabout being fair play, the Red Sox obtained Roberts on July 31 last year, and it was his stolen base two and a half months later that marked the beginning of the end of the Yankees and the beginning of the greatest postseason comeback in baseball history.
 Roberts was one of three players the Red Sox added in a flurry of deals at the deadline, moves that became instrumental in Boston's first World Series championship in 86 years. The other two, for shortstop Orlando Cabrera and first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, solidified the infield defense, which had been a huge problem for the Red Sox.
 Nomar Garciaparra, who had fallen out of favor in Boston, went to the Chicago Cubs in a three-team deal that also involved the Montreal Expos. 
 ''We had been talking to the Cubs about a Nomar deal, different variations of a Nomar deal,'' Theo Epstein, the Red Sox general manager, recalled. ''We never really got close on anything heading to the 30th. We told the Cubs we'd be more inclined to do the deal if they could deliver not just Cabrera but also Mientkiewicz. We felt we needed to improve our infield defense.''
 Epstein said he and Jim Hendry, the Cubs' general manager, also talked about the possibility of swapping pitchers, Derek Lowe for Matt Clement. ''But we decided to keep Lowe, feeling he would benefit from our improved infield defense,'' he said. 
 Before any deal could be made, the Cubs had to match up with the Expos on a trade for Cabrera and with the Twins for a deal for Mientkiewicz. ''The biggest hurdle was to get Omar to give up Cabrera,'' Epstein said, referring to Omar Minaya, who was the Expos' general manager. ''They didn't really have a fit.''
 To get everything done, Epstein said, the Red Sox had to give the Cubs a minor league outfielder, Matt Murton, so the Cubs would give a minor league infielder, Brendan Harris, to the Expos so they would put Cabrera in the trade.
 ''It went down to the last seconds,'' Epstein said. So did the Boston deal with the Dodgers for center fielder Roberts. 
 ''We were very concerned about Trot Nixon's health,'' Epstein said. ''We had Gabe Kapler to play right, but we wanted a left-hand hitter to platoon. We had a list of about 10 guys, some in the minors.''
 Paul DePodesta, the Dodgers' general manager, called Epstein and said he was making a deal for center fielder Steve Finley, freeing the Dodgers to trade Roberts. ''He gave us a list of eight players,'' Epstein said. ''We made the deal five minutes before the deadline.''
 In the final 48 hours before the deadline last year, the Mets made two deals for pitchers that created controversy among Mets fans. They gave up Scott Kazmir, a highly regarded pitching prospect, for Victor Zambrano, and they acquired Kris Benson for prospects.
 In 1995, Cone and Wells were traded three days apart in this equivalent week, Cone to the Yankees and Wells to Cincinnati. Wells eventually wound up with the Yankees, and he and Cone pitched perfect games 14 months apart.
 Oakland traded McGwire to St. Louis on deadline day in 1997, and the next year he broke Roger Maris's home run record, only to have his performance come under suspicion this year because of his refusal under oath to deny that he had used steroids. 
 On the same day as the McGwire trade, the White Sox and the Giants engineered a nine-player swap; the Giants hoped it would get them to the World Series. They didn't get there, but one of the players they gave up, Foulke, is a reliever who helped the Red Sox win it last year.
 On July 29 the next year, the White Sox, who got Foulke in the Giants deal, obtained another pitcher in a seemingly minor deal with the Cubs. Garland was a minor leaguer then, but today he leads the major leagues with 15 victories.

A Limited Market
 General managers don't expect much trading activity this week. They offer various reasons.
 More teams than usual have a chance for the wild-card spots, so fewer teams are making players available.
 Teams are doing better economically and feel less need to dump salary.
 Teams are placing greater value on younger players, those in their first three years in the majors, because their relatively low salaries offset the higher pay earned by stars.
 No impact players are available.
 Players who have been mentioned as being available are pitchers A.J. Burnett of Florida and Jason Schmidt of San Francisco, Mike Lowell of Florida, Mike Sweeney of Kansas City, Aubrey Huff of Tampa Bay and Randy Winn of Seattle. 
 The Marlins have told teams that if they want Burnett, they also have to take Lowell, a third baseman whose $9 million for each of the next two years the Marlins want to shed.

It's Not Personal
 Melvin Mora has never held it against the Mets that they traded him to Baltimore five years ago. The Mets, on the other hand, can look at Mora and wonder what might have been had they not traded him.
 ''They needed a player; they needed a shortstop,'' Mora said, referring to the Mets' trade for Mike Bordick in the year they would play the Yankees in the World Series. ''This is a business. At that time I was happy with the Mets because that was the first team that believed in me and gave me an opportunity to play. Bobby Valentine made my dream come true. Bobby Valentine didn't care what the people say. He threw me in there.''
 A minor leaguer for nearly eight years, Mora played all over the field for the Mets in a part-time role in parts of two seasons. He played a variety of positions with the Orioles, too, but he is now their everyday third baseman. Stability at last.
 ''When you play every day, things happen,'' the 33-year-old Mora said. ''If you don't get a chance to play every day, you don't get a chance to show what you can do.''
 Mora has shown the Orioles what he can do. Last season he batted .340, slugged 27 home runs and drove in 104 runs. This season, before last night, he was hitting .297 with 16 homers and 49 R.B.I. How did he develop into such a good hitter?
 ''You ask questions to veteran guys like Edgar Martinez, Bobby Abreu, Magglio Ordonez,'' he said. ''You put everything together and you bring it to the cage and bring it to the field and you can be better.''
 Mora said he was also helped by playing regularly and at a regular position. ''Not to know where you're going to play that day affects you mentally,'' he said. ''You want to know what you're going to do that day, and you prepare yourself really good so you don't have to worry about anything else.''
 Mora remembers New York fans fondly. ''They never boo me,'' he said.

Rodriguez Name Game
 You can't tell the Rodriguezes without a scorecard. 
 All right, everyone knows Alex Rodriguez, the Yankees' third baseman and American League leader in home runs and slugging and on-base percentages. Everyone, too, knows Ivan Rodriguez, Detroit's catcher. People are getting to know Francisco Rodriguez, the Angels' fireballing closer, with 54 strikeouts in 38 2/3 innings and a .154 batting average against him. 
 But what about the five other Rodriguezes, three of whom are playing in the majors for the first time this season?
 Wandy is an Astros rookie pitcher, with a 5-4 record and a 6.79 earned run average in 10 starts. Luis is Minnesota's rookie switch-hitting infielder; he is hitting .290 in 42 games. John, a St. Louis outfielder and like Alex a New York native, is the majors' newest Rodriguez. He collected 6 hits in his first 19 at-bats.
 The remaining Rodriguezes are Yankees reliever Felix and Texas starter Ricardo.

Duke Seems to Be Slam Dunk
 Zach Duke seems like a name worth learning and remembering. A 22-year-old left-handed rookie, Zach has started four games for Pittsburgh and has a 3-0 record and 0.93 earned run average. It's early in his career, but that's an impressive stretch in any part of anyone's career, let alone the start of it.
 He has allowed one run (none earned) in his last three starts covering 22 innings, and he has pitched seven or eight innings in each start.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Cone was traded from the Blue Jays to the Yankees. (Photo by Bill Chan/Reuters)
David Wells was acquired by the Reds at the 1995 deadline. (Photo by Jim McIsaac/Getty Images)
Randy Johnson went to the Astros at the 1998 deadline. (Photo by Jim McIsaac/Getty Images)
Curt Schilling was an unknown in a 1988 deadline deal. (Photo by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images)
Jon Garland was traded by the Cubs to the White Sox in 1998. (Photo by Jeff Roberson/Associated Press)
Aaron Boone, left, and Dave Roberts, center, were key acquisitions in the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry. Jason Bay was an All-Star this year. (Photos by Left, Mark Duncan/Associated Press
center, Lenny Ignelzi/Associated Press
Bill Boyce/Associated Press)
Keith Foulke was traded by the Giants at the 1997 deadline. (Photo by Jim McIsaac/Getty Images)
Mark McGwire became a St. Louis icon after his 1997 trade. (Photo by Tim Parker/Reuters)
Trading Nomar Garciaparra had a big payoff for Boston. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)
Third baseman Scott Rolen was traded to St. Louis in 2002. (Photo by Jed Jacobsohn/Getty Images)
 Jason Varitek was traded by Seattle in a 1997 deal. (Photo by Elsa/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (88%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); TOURNAMENTS (67%) Baseball; Trades (Sports); Playoff Games

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK METS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%)

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



484 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 518 words

PERSON: George Crews McGhee

HEADLINE: George Crews McGhee, 93, Oil Prospector and Diplomat

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
George Crews McGhee, a geophysicist who struck it rich in oil and became a top-ranking State Department troubleshooter and ambassador to West Germany in the cold war era, died on July 4 in Leesburg, Va. He was 93 and lived on his farm in Middleburg, Va.
 His death was announced by his family. 
 Ambassador McGhee was also a writer, an arborist by avocation and a noted collector of antiques.
 He retired as ambassador at large in 1969.
 Ambassador McGhee was born in Waco, Tex., and worked his way through the University of Oklahoma, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1933. He started as a geophysicist in the oil industry and in 1934 earned a Rhodes scholarship, and spent three years at Queens College, Oxford, receiving a doctorate in 1937.
 He led a small prospecting group that found new wells in Louisiana and became a millionaire before he turned 30. Ambassador McGhee enlisted in the Navy and was commissioned to become its liaison to the bomber command headed by Gen. Curtis E. LeMay in World War II. He returned from the Marianas with three battle stars and the Legion of Merit.
 Ambassador McGhee joined the State Department after the war. In 1947, President Harry S. Truman named him coordinator for aid to Greece and Turkey. He played a crucial part in the postwar American effort to shore up the economies and governments of those countries and to keep them on the Western side of the Iron Curtain.
 In 1949 he became assistant secretary for Near Eastern, South Asian and African Affairs. He toured widely for the Point Four program and other Western development projects, and through his diplomatic and business connections helped establish links between the United States and the oil producers of the Middle East, particularly Saudi Arabia.
 With the arrival of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's administration, Ambassador McGhee returned to the oil business but was recalled as a consultant to the National Security Council and as a member of the president's commission on the military assistance program.
 President John F. Kennedy appointed him counselor to the State Department and head of its policy planning council. During the Cuban missile crisis he was under secretary for political affairs, the No. 3 job in the department. 
 His next assignment in 1963 took him to Bonn as ambassador to the Federal Republic of West Germany, assigned to help keep the NATO alliance together while the United States was at war in Indochina. He remained until 1968 and described the experience in his best-known book, ''At the Creation of a New Germany: From Adenauer to Brandt: An Ambassador's Account'' (1989).
 His other books include ''On the Frontline in the Cold War: An Ambassador Reports'' (1997), and a memoir, ''I Did It This Way: From Texas and Oil to Oxford, Diplomacy, and Corporate Boards'' (2001).
 Ambassador McGhee's wife, Cecilia DeGolyer McGhee, died in 2002 after 63 years of marriage. He is survived by three daughters, Marcia Carter and Dorothy McGhee of Washington, and Bebek McGhee of Bodega Bay, Calif.; a son, George D., of Middleburg; five grandchildren; and two great-grandsons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RANKINGS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (71%); WRITERS (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (57%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GREECE (56%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



485 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: From Shoes to Aircraft to Investment, Zimbabwe Pursues a Made-in-China Future

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, July 23 

 BODY:
His new 25-bedroom palace is clad in midnight-blue Chinese roof tiles. His air force trains on Chinese jets. His subjects wear Chinese shoes, ride Chinese buses and, lately, zip around the country in Chinese propjets. He has even urged his countrymen to learn Mandarin and nurture a taste for Chinese cuisine.
 That President Robert G. Mugabe rules Zimbabwe, which resembles China about as much as African corn porridge tastes like moo shu pork, is irrelevant. Tightening his embrace of all things Chinese, the 81-year-old Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe's canny autocrat for 25 years, arrived in Beijing on Saturday for six days of talks with China's leaders, led by President Hu Jintao. 
 If this all seems nonsensical, however, it is anything but. Shunned by Western leaders and investors for his government's human rights policies, Zimbabwe has begun a determined campaign to hitch its plummeting fortunes to China's rising star.
 Mr. Mugabe calls the policy Look East and has relentlessly promoted it as another way to thumb Zimbabwe's nose at its old colonial ruler, Britain, and Britain's allies, like the United States. The sheer intensity of the pro-China drive has stirred resentment among average Zimbabweans and raised eyebrows among the elite, some of whom question whether Mr. Mugabe is simply replacing British political domination with a more up-to-date Asian economic rule. 
 But it is a hand-in-glove fit for the Chinese, who are steadily extending their political and economic influence across Africa, particularly in regions rich in oil and minerals. 
 The Chinese are widely reported to covet a stake in Zimbabwe's platinum mines, which have the world's second largest reserves, and Mr. Mugabe's government has hinted at a desire to accommodate them. The mines' principal operator denies being pressured to deal with the Chinese, but negotiations are under way to sell a stake to as-yet-unidentified Zimbabweans. The operator has postponed major spending on the mines, citing political uncertainty.
 Meanwhile, from Angolan oil to Zambian copper mines, China is investing billions of dollars securing access to resources for its fast-growing economy. And because they show few scruples about their partners' human rights policies, the Chinese are becoming entrenched in some states, including Zimbabwe and Sudan, that bridle at Western criticism.
 While the talk is of democracy sweeping the continent, some experts believe that China's rising influence here may power its blend of free-market dictatorship, particularly among African leaders already reluctant to turn over power democratically.
 ''We might see the Chinese political system appealing to a lot of states whose elites and regimes are more in line with that sort of thinking,'' said Chris Maroleng, a Zimbabwe expert at the Institute for Security Studies in Pretoria. ''It's really a conflict of two systems, one based on regime security and the other, almost Western, which talks of human security -- good governance and human rights.''
 The Chinese have been friendly with Zimbabwe since 1980, when they and Mr. Mugabe, who led the newly independent state, shared much the same Marxist ideology. But in the last two or three years, as Zimbabwe's economy has edged ever closer to collapse, the friendship has turned on investments and goods that Mr. Mugabe's government was increasingly unable to find elsewhere.
 Some exchanges amount to good will: China, for example, donated the blue tiles adorning the $13 million palace Mr. Mugabe is building for himself in Borrowdale, a comparatively wealthy Harare suburb.
 Others are more significant. Chinese companies have won contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars to provide hydroelectric generators for the national power authority, run by Mr. Mugabe's brother-in-law. China's AVIC aircraft plant has sold or given three 60-seat propjets to the beleaguered Air Zimbabwe, replacing aging Boeing 737's that were regularly grounded due to mechanical problems. China's First Automobile Works has agreed to sell the Zimbabwean government 1,000 commuter buses to upgrade its falling-apart municipal fleet.
 China won a contract last year to farm 386 square miles of land seized from white commercial farmers during the land-confiscation program begun by Mr. Mugabe in 2000. Zimbabwe's air force has bought $200 million in Chinese-made Karakorum-8 trainer jets, a copy of the British Hawk trainers that the air force has had to ground because of parts shortages. 
 Rumors abound that China has sold Zimbabwe's internal-security apparatus water cannons to subdue protesters and bugging equipment to monitor traffic on the nation's three cellphone networks. 
 Still, the full extent of the investments is unknown -- and, in some cases, is a state secret. Zimbabwe says trade with China amounted to $100 million in the first three months of this year. Mr. Mugabe says China is close to becoming the nation's leading foreign investor, a claim that seems likely given the headlong flight of Western capital. 
 Mr. Maroleng and others say that many deals are hidden in a welter of barter arrangements and front companies, reflecting Zimbabwe's inability to pay China with hard currency. China is widely reported, for example, to have taken a share of Zimbabwe's tobacco harvest in exchange for equipment. 
 What the ordinary Zimbabwean reaps from this relationship is also unclear. Visits by Asian tourists to Zimbabwe leapt by one fourth from 2002 to 2004 -- thus Mr. Mugabe's exhortation to Zimbabweans to learn Mandarin and cook Chinese-style -- but overall tourism remains well below peak years because Zimbabwe long ago lost its popularity among Europeans. 
 Zimbabweans complain, sometimes bitterly, that their new Chinese buses break down with alarming regularity and that the Chinese goods that flood stores and roadside stalls are so shoddy as to be worthless. Indeed, they have coined a term for the phenomenon: zhing-zhong. 
 ''To call something zhing-zhong means that it is substandard,'' said Eldred Masunugure, the chairman of the political science department at the University of Zimbabwe in Harare. ''The resentment of the Chinese is not only widespread; it's deeply rooted. It's affecting even other Chinese-looking people, like the Japanese.''
 Professor Masunugure and others say that Harare's few Japanese residents complain of being taunted and called zhing-zhong. Harare newspapers report that high-yielding robberies of Harare's Chinese residents are on the upswing. 
 A solution, however, is in the wings: in a meeting last month, China and Zimbabwe signed a letter of intent to cooperate in law enforcement and the judiciary. Atop the list is a plan for China to train Zimbabweans in managing prisons. 
 ''They have a fairly advanced prison system,'' Zimbabwe's justice minister, Patrick Chinamasa, told reporters. ''We would also want to tap into that expertise.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); PLATINUM GROUP METALS MINING (63%); COPPER MINING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) ZIMBABWE (97%); CHINA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AFRICA (92%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



486 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: There's a New China Syndrome on Wall Street

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
AMONG bankers on Wall Street the conversation invariably turns to one subject: China. They have just gotten back from a big trip to Beijing or are about to leave on one. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chairman of Goldman Sachs, talks about the number of trips he has made to China each quarter as if it were a metric to be included when computing the firm's earnings. And, of course, the takeover bid for Unocal by Cnooc, one of China's top oil and natural gas companies, has made the country the subject du jour. 
 But as Wall Street's biggest firms rush to build their businesses in China, some have put themselves in tough spots with their clients in other parts of the world. 
Lehman Brothers, which has been aggressively wooing Chinese clients, also happens to be the banker for Chevron in the battle for control of Unocal, the American oil company. Chevron's strategy in seeking public support for a deal with Unocal has included denouncing Cnooc's offer not just on its economic merits, but also as a Chinese government-sponsored bid that threatens America's national security. Chevron's lobbying campaign in Washington all but compares China to Russia during the cold war. 
 This has made for some awkward moments for Lehman Brothers in China. ''Pitching business there at the moment is not the easiest thing to do,'' lamented a Lehman banker who just completed a trip to Hong Kong that he called ''unsuccessful.'' 
 Morgan Stanley may face the same conundrum. Morgan Stanley, which is also trying to create a franchise in China, is representing Unocal. Relying in part on Morgan Stanley's advice, Unocal's board has rejected Cnooc's bid -- which is actually higher than Chrevron's offer -- as too low, considering the political risks. 
 While China's executives and, more important, its government officials, must realize that bankers are mercenaries, it's also true that loyalty and long-term relationships matter. 
 ''Conflict resolution is tremendously complex to start with for most big firms,'' said Steven Koch, co-chairman of global mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse First Boston. ''It gets even more complicated when the client is associated with a country's national interests.'' 
 Goldman Sachs knows this lesson well. It has spent the last several years zealously courting Chinese government officials. Indeed, while Goldman is advising Cnooc (as are J.P. Morgan Chase and N.M. Rothschild & Sons), it could have represented Chevron, the more likely winner in the Unocal fight. Chevron's star energy banker, William M. Wicker, was once president of Texaco, which became ChevronTexaco and is now Chevron. 
 Goldman's decision to pursue working for Cnooc was a calculated one. It knew full well that Cnooc had a long shot of winning. As adviser to the losing side in the takeover fight, Goldman would make virtually no money for its months of strategizing and number-crunching all-nighters. 
 But for Goldman, it may have looked like a no-lose situation. If Cnooc won, it would be a watershed deal that would reap millions of dollars in fees for Goldman. But being on the losing side would offer rewards, too. The experience itself has already helped Goldman build deep relationships inside the Chinese government that may give it a leg up in the coming years.
 Goldman, in particular among Wall Street firms, has had to make some difficult strategic decisions involving its long-term loyalties and short-term profits. Last year, in what turned into a heated debate within the firm, Goldman chose to advise NTT DoCoMo, the Japanese telecommunications company -- instead of another longtime client, Vodafone, the world's largest mobile phone company -- in the auction for AT&T Wireless. In the end, neither DoCoMo nor Vodafone was successful in the bidding, but the odds for Vodafone were much better. 
 In fact, DoCoMo dropped out of the running before submitting a final bid. And Goldman had been Vodafone's lead adviser in the hostile takeover of Mannesmann in 2000 for $183 billion, the largest such deal in history. Still, Goldman decided that representing DoCoMo in the AT&T bidding was a better move over the long term, in part because it enabled the investment bank to demonstrate its commitment to deal-making in Japan. 
 Of course, it's not clear that strategic bets like Goldman's will ultimately pay off. Indeed, some people close to Cnooc have suggested that Goldman could be blamed if the Chinese company ends up losing the current takeover battle. Critics are already saying that Goldman has miscalculated the level of protectionist sentiment in Washington as well as Chevron's ability to stir up a firestorm of protest against the Chinese company. 
 And who knows? If Chevron wins, Lehman's defense of it could prove to be the best way to win favor in China. After all, the Chinese may just say, ''If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); COLD WAR (73%); COUNTRY RISK (72%); LOBBYING (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); N M ROTHSCHILD & SONS LTD (51%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (82%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%) Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



487 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3334 words

HEADLINE: The Rap On Puffy's Empire

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
SEAN JOHN COMBS, the rap and clothing impresario still best known as Puff Daddy, a sobriquet he has now abandoned, stood before a conference table in his company's Midtown Manhattan headquarters recently, addressing his designers. 
 Dressed in a black baseball cap, a black T-shirt and black cut-off denim shorts -- his only flash a large square diamond stud in each earlobe -- he projected a decidedly serious mien. The designers listened intently. When he paused, as he did several times, there were no questions. They knew to wait until he solicited their advice.
''There will be only three 'Sean John' T-shirts in the coming collection,'' he said. A few designers let out wispy sighs at such a seemingly self-destructive edict; after all, clothes with the Sean John name, initials or crest make up a big slice of his company's sales. ''I'm putting you on rations,'' he said, laughing. ''From now on, I want people to read the name without seeing the name. You get me?'' 
 Messing with the name is no small gamble, nor is it the only one he is taking. Sean John is already a well-known brand -- at least in households with teenagers, who spend about $42 billion a year to look good.
 Mr. Combs's company, Sean John, has about $400 million of that business, most of it from urban styles like baggy, crotch-at-the knee trousers, conspicuously branded T-shirts and hooded sweatshirts, or ''hoodies.'' But Mr. Combs, who sometimes goes by the rapper name P. Diddy but is known to associates as Puffy, is looking to expand well beyond the urban niche.
 A stack of other rap and rhythm-and-blues celebrities from Snoop Dogg to Beyonce have decided they have the style to create clothes, but Mr. Combs is the one who analysts say has the best chance of making the transition to the mainstream. 
 That could be particularly lucrative for Mr. Combs, who, unlike most of his competitors, has maintained control of his company. (By contrast, Russell Simmons, another rap impresario, sold his Phat Fashions to Kellwood, a giant clothing producer, for $140 million last year.) 
 ''Sean John felt he has the heft to go it alone,'' said Eric M. Beder, an analyst at Brean Murray & Company, a New York investment bank.
 Going it alone, though, will mean having to tackle some serious problems, starting with two years of more or less flat sales and a net loss last year. That is compounded by signs that the urbanwear trend is past its peak, and by basic business problems like disorganized distribution. Then there are the distractions inherent in being part of an informal miniconglomerate that has at times included businesses as diverse as music publishing and advertising and restaurants.
 Mr. Combs has started to address each of these issues. He began by parting ways with a longtime friend and the executive vice president of Sean John, Jeffrey Tweedy, and replacing him with Robert J. Wichser, the former chief executive of the Joseph Abboud Apparel Corporation. Mr. Combs is also moving to expand beyond urbanwear -- first into a line of women's clothes, and next into a host of licensed products, including leather sneakers, belts and wheel rims.
 The success of this strategy is far from assured, but Mr. Beder, along with other analysts, bankers and even competitors, says Mr. Combs stands a good chance, in part because he is so personally involved. He directs his own designers, and Sean John makes 70 percent of its own clothes; most celebrity-branded gear is made under license by other companies. ''If he can get the women's working, he can become a true lifestyle brand,'' Mr. Beder said. ''Sean John can become more than just Puff Daddy's company.'' 
 Before he hired Mr. Wichser in May, Mr. Combs held the title of chief executive. Mr. Wichser had said he wouldn't sign on to run Sean John without that title -- and the authority to match. Mr. Combs has also hired Jon Cropper, a former executive of Quincy Jones Productions, as chief marketing officer of Bad Boy Worldwide Entertainment, his recording company. The goal, both men say, is to bring ''synergy'' to an empire that Mr. Combs says spans ''clothing, music and lifestyle.'' 
 Mr. Combs has also vowed to pay more attention to the Sean John clothing and accessory lines, a pledge he honored at the recent meeting with his designers. ''When we are doing the Jack Johnson Collection, I want people to think 'champion.''' he told them, announcing the coming season's theme, named for a great and tragic black boxer of the early 1900's. ''I don't want you to bring me clothes with the name 'Jack Johnson' on them. We got to get away from that. And I don't want some kind of retro stuff, like clothes from 1906. I want contemporary. If somebody's wearing one of my track suits, I want it to say 'champion' from two blocks away.''
 He is also branching into footwear: three styles of leather-and-suede Sean John shoes, in brown and black, will hit stores soon. (In the Sean John store, on Fifth Avenue at 40th Street in Midtown, a salesman recently described the shoes, which resemble sneakers or lightweight hiking boots, as ''something Louis Vuitton would do.'')
 Sean John's sales have started to grow again, Mr. Wichser said, after a two-year plateau. But the key to the company's long-term success, many agree, will be the women's clothing line, called ''Sean by Sean Combs,'' coming this fall. It is aimed at the contemporary department-store category (read: young and midpriced), but it has some particularly expensive items -- like coyote-trimmed leather jackets for $6,000. The line has already received some good reviews, and orders, from Bergdorf Goodman, Saks Fifth Avenue and other stores.
 Robert Burke, the fashion director at Bergdorf Goodman, says Sean John's women's line is more impressive than its men's wear. ''We at Bergdorf have not been -- and are not -- interested in the men's collection,'' he said. ''The women's has more fashion, more sophistication, and a sexier edge to it.''
 Mr. Combs says he knows the women's line must be more than just ''better'' if he is to make the leap from the category called urban -- a name he resents, by the way, contending that is just another way of saying ''black'' -- to something fresh and great.
 MR. COMBS, a Grammy-winning rapper, created his first major business, Bad Boy Worldwide Entertainment, in 1993. His clothing company came along six years later. It produced clothes that mimicked what many young African-American teenagers had already started wearing: an anti-establishment style influenced by prison inmates, who wore their pants baggy and held up with a piece of rope.
 Mr. Simmons, a founder of Def Jam records, started marketing the style through his Phat Farm clothing label in the early 1990's. A basket of new urban brands quickly followed, including Ecko, Rocawear and Sean John.
 But some of these clothing companies ran into problems in the last year or so. Last summer, Mr. Simmons said in a deposition during a civil court battle over one of his record deals that he had exaggerated the amount of money his company was making at the time he sold it to Kellwood. (Kellwood executives said in a news release that Mr. Simmons was just frustrated at the time, and had always been honest with them.)
 Whatever the facts of Mr. Simmons's business, several surveys have found that the urban market is starting to decline. The days of full ''hook ups'' -- a total head-to-toe outfit of one urban brand -- are past, said Richard E. Jaffe, a retail analyst at Legg Mason. Those who still like the look are seeking brand names that are perhaps hipper and definitely younger than either Phat Farm or Sean John, he said. 
 When Steven Brown, who runs a new Web-based urban clothing store called CityBoyz, lists his top designers, they are names like Ami Sanzuri and Krush, Caffeine Clothing and Dragonfly. ''I think I have a couple of Sean John belts on the site,'' he said, when asked if he carried the brand. 
 That is not surprising to some analysts, who say Sean John may be old hat for the newest fashionistas. Being urban, after all, means being ahead of the fashion wave. But the masses, including some older, more affluent customers, may just be discovering him.
 ''It's a really odd thing,'' said John D. Morris, a retail analyst who specializes in youth-oriented fashion at Harris Nesbitt, an investment bank in New York. He canvasses the malls and holds focus groups with teenagers and customers in their 20's. ''The teenagers who used to wear Sean John are wearing Ralph Lauren,'' he said, ''and the 20-ish stockbrokers are starting to wear Sean John.''
 Mr. Beder, the retail analyst, said that ''the whole urban style has been co-opted by preppies.'' 
 Although Sean John is not a public company, Mr. Morris says he tracks it and most of the other urban brands because they are sold in the national specialty chains, which are publicly traded. ''The brand has been slipping,'' he said of Sean John. ''Managers in places like T.J. Maxx list Rocawear, Polo, Ecko and Baby Phat as their most popular. Macy's has far more Ecko and Baby Phat than Sean John. Plus, there's been an overall shift away from branded clothes. We know the kids don't like logos anymore.'' 
 Elina Kazan, a Macy's spokeswoman, said Sean John ''is, and will continue to be, a very important vendor for us.''
 Last year, retailers sold about $400 million of Sean John clothes, according to Mr. Wichser -- a figure that translates into $125 million to $150 million of wholesale revenue in 2004. The profitability of Mr. Combs's clothing business -- which last year got a $100 million infusion from the billionaire Ron Burkle -- is the subject of much speculation in the fashion industry.
 Mr. Wichser said Sean John ''incurred a slight loss'' last year, but he attributed that to expansion. First, he said, Sean John bought a 50 percent partnership with Zac Posen, one of the hottest and most social of the young designers. (The price was not disclosed, but bankers said it was about $2 million.) Second, he said, Sean John opened its Fifth Avenue store last year.
 That store is not large -- only 3,500 square feet -- and the rent may be cheaper than in it would be in other locations, like West Broadway in SoHo, where other urban clothing retailers have set up shop. To many retailing experts, Mr. Combs's leap last fall to include dressier, more formal styles -- notably suits and silk ties and French-cuffed shirts -- seems prescient now. 
 Last week, Mr. Wichser predicted that the store would ''break even or be slightly profitable in 2005,'' adding that he was ''assessing'' the store's future.
 Earlier this month, the salesman who compared Mr. Combs's sneaker designs to Louis Vuitton's said that some of the suits had been in Sean John's store since last fall and had been subtly marked down to $495. (''Where's the sign?'' he was asked. ''I am the sign,'' he replied, with true Puffy bravado.)
 Mr. Combs, for his part, shrugs off speculation about his empire's health. ''It's all right if people have questions,'' he said, ''but sometimes it's not important to give people answers.'' He does, however, answer one question: Is the urban business in trouble? ''No,'' he replied. ''The economy is in trouble.''
 The story of Mr. Combs's beginnings, as he tells it, sounds like a rap song, especially with the emphasis he places on certain words.
 ''I come from Harlem, New York,'' he said, ''and one of the things Harlem is known for is style, making something out of nothing. Nobody has money but everybody knows how to dress. My mother was a model and a shopaholic. I was definitely a mama's boy; I was dragged into bargain shopping for the right pieces. My aunt was a seamstress. My uncle George was gay. My grandmother did the robes for the church, and she did the hems for the choir -- she did them cheaper than the local cleaners. My father was an alcoholic, and he died when I was three.''
 It sounds like a Horatio Alger story, he was told.
 ''I don't know who this Horatio Alger guy is, but I certainly went through a lot of adversity,'' he said. ''As a young black man -- I don't want to pull the race card -- but it certainly seems like the odds were against me. Eighty percent of my friends are dead or in jail. It's just something I have to live with.''
 When he was 12, the family moved to Mount Vernon, N.Y., just north of New York City, and he went to the Mount St. Michael Academy, a private school a few miles away, in the Bronx. ''When I arrived, I was too young to have a paper route; I was one year away,'' he said. ''But I made a deal with the kid who had the local route, who was going off to college. I'd split the money with him 50-50. It was a great deal for him, and I was making $600 a week by the age of 13. That's when I got the bug, when one plus one equaled two for me.''
 When he went to Howard University, the entrepreneurial reflex went with him. Between classes, he ran a shuttle service for other students, for example, and he later pursued an internship at Uptown Records, which published the R&B and rap music he liked most. When he met the rapper Heavy D, whose real name was Dwight E. Myers, Mr. Combs said he begged him to call the label's president, Andre Harrell, on his behalf.
 One day, he was asked to meet Mr. Harrell. ''I told him I'd wash cars, quit school -- anything -- a priceless chance to be in your presence,'' Mr. Combs recalled. The student sycophant was given a chance, dealing with artists ''nobody could control or handle,'' he said. The first record he produced -- ''Come & Talk to Me'' by Jodeci -- sold two million copies, and he was named a vice president. But almost as quickly, he was fired. He was 21. 
 ''I guess Andre didn't want two kings in the castle,'' Mr. Combs said. ''I had obtained some success, some notoriety, and I didn't realize it wasn't my house.''
 A concert promotion failed spectacularly when nine people were crushed to death at a rap concert that Mr. Combs and Mr. Myers staged at the City College of New York in 1991. Family members of the people who died sued Mr. Combs and Mr. Myers, as well as the college and the city, accusing them of negligence. The suit was settled for $3.8 million, of which Mr. Combs paid $750,000. In a separate suit filed by some people who were injured at the event, Judge Louis C. Benza of the Court of Claims in Albany chastised Mr. Combs, saying he oversold the event and hired bouncers who barricaded the doors to keep out angry ticketholders, trapping others inside. 
 Mr. Combs landed in trouble again when he faced charges of illegal possession of a gun and attempted bribery of a witness after a 1999 shootout in a Midtown nightclub. Three people were wounded in the incident. Mr. Combs was acquitted, though one member of his party was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison.
 After that, Mr. Combs spent more time on his fashion company, which he had started by using money from his CD sales to buy 50,000 black hats and T-shirts with his signature on them. The idea, he said, was inspired by the Agnes B boutique, which then sold clothes mostly in black. He started hiring independent designers to expand his offerings, then started designing himself. ''I didn't think I'd end up being the designer,'' he said. ''It was never my intent. My intent was to own a company, not be a face in its ads.''
 These days, Mr. Combs says he is partying less; he is slowing down a bit. He is consolidating his clothing maker and recording outfit from several offices around Manhattan into a single building on Broadway at 54th Street, ''to make sure we take advantage of all the synergies,'' he said. 
 ''And that takes time,'' he added. ''I'm taking the time to slow down, to strategize, to figure out where I want to be in five years.''
 The company, he said, had been ''like a train speeding down the track; if you don't manage the velocity, the train will eventually crash.'' 
 It came close to a collision last year, when deliveries became so erratic that Macy's threatened to stop carrying the line. ''Did we have some problems during the last year? Yes,'' Mr. Wichser said. ''We didn't have the infrastructure.'' (To address that problem, Sean John opened a distribution center in Cranbury, N.J., last fall.)
 Mr. Combs's top priority is the Sean John collection of casual men's wear, which makes up about 70 percent of his business, according to Mr. Wichser. ''What most needed work was the management,'' Mr. Combs said, adding that he addressed that problem by hiring Mr. Wichser. Now the company will work on finding better factories to make the goods.
 Mr. Combs also has to figure out how to incorporate Zac Posen into his empire. Last week, he said the plan was to have Mr. Posen do ''a secondary line,'' probably aimed at department stores, and to license his name for accessories.
 ''A woman would buy a Zac Posen handbag, a pair of shoes,'' Mr. Combs said. ''He's different from Marc Jacobs, of course, but he's definitely following in his footsteps.'' Mr. Posen, who is only 25, has also been ''a quiet consultant'' to the new women's line, Mr. Combs said.
 WHILE strengthening men's wear and introducing the women's line, Sean John will rely on licensed goods -- suits, dress shirts and ties made by other companies but sold under the Sean John label -- to drive its growth, Mr. Wichser said. Sean John collects a percentage of the sales of licensed goods, usually 7 to 10 percent. Mr. Wichser predicted that sales of the licensed clothes would grow ''in the mid-teens'' between this year and next.
 At the same time, Mr. Combs has begun to de-emphasize his recording career. In a lengthy interview, he said he was making his last record and would only produce records in the future. ''I think I've gone as far as I can as a solo artist,'' he said.
 Recently, he sold half of his Bad Boy music catalog to the Warner Music Group for $35 million. He dismissed speculation that he owed about $12 million of that to his old distributor, Universal. He said that he paid much less than that to settle an old loan and let him get out of his contract with Universal eight months early. A spokesman for Universal had no comment. 
 ''Puffy has told us he's going to focus on music and building his career,'' said Edgar Bronfman Jr., the chairman of Warner Music, ''and when he focuses, there's no one more talented and better at spotting talent and overseeing its growth.''
 In the end, the empire is only as strong as its emperor -- Sean Combs or Puff Daddy or P. Diddy.
 Ronald Frasch, the fashion director at Saks Fifth Avenue and the former chief executive of Bergdorf's, said that a big part of the appeal of Mr. Combs's new women's line was Mr. Combs himself. After a 20-minute presentation by Mr. Combs, Mr. Frasch said he told him: ''I don't know whether the clothes are any good -- but I'll definitely vote for you!'' He ordered clothes for six stores to start, and said he plans to include more. 
 John Dempsey, the chief executive of Estee Lauder, said his company was also delighted to be part of Mr. Combs's newest venture -- a perfume, but please don't ask about the name before it is revealed next month. It doesn't matter, he said, that every other celebrity seems to be introducing a fragrance.
 Mr. Combs, he said, rises above them all. ''Russell Simmons comes close to Sean as a business entrepreneur,'' Mr. Dempsey said, ''but nobody else could have created 'The Band' on MTV or gone on Broadway to star in 'Raisin in the Sun.' When I travel the world, when you go to Germany, to Europe, his clothing line may not be known, his music may not be known, but everybody knows who he is. He's got a lot of personality muscle.''
 Mr. Combs also has enough experience to know that personality muscle alone is not enough to build an empire. ''You have to invest in executive talent in order to one day own or be part of a Fortune 500 company,'' he said, then paused. ''I'm more mature now. I understand. It's all right to need people.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean John Combs is expanding his clothing company beyond the urban uniforms of baggy pants and shirts that may have passed their peak. The challenge is to move from niche to mainstream. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Sean Combs recently told his designers to limit the use of the Sean John name, initials and crest on T-shirts. The shoes on the table are part of his new line. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 The actress Penelope Cruz, in an outfit from the new Sean John women's line, films a commercial in SoHo with Mr. Combs. The company regards the women's venture as important to its long-term success. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); TRENDS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%) Company and Organization Profiles; Apparel ; Shoes and Boots; Sneakers; Music; Advertising and Marketing; Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: BREAN MURRAY CARRET & CO LLC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Sean John (Co); Bad Boy Entertainment; Sean John (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (61%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (96%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%) Sean Diddy Combs; Tracie Rozhon; Jon Cropper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005



488 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval Continues in San Diego as 11 Vie for Mayor

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 21 

 BODY:
Discussing why he should be elected this city's next mayor, Jerry Sanders recalled how he commanded a SWAT team in 1984 that shot a man who had opened fire at a local McDonald's, killing 21 people.
 ''There's nothing in the world that could be tougher than that,'' said Mr. Sanders, a former police chief. 
 But governing San Diego right now might not be far behind. 
 This city, the nation's seventh largest, is reeling from accusations of civic corruption. Two City Council members, one serving his first official day as acting mayor, resigned this week after being convicted of taking payments from the owner of a local strip club. Federal authorities are investigating possible improprieties in the management of the city employees' pension fund, which has a deficit of at least $1.4 billion.
 San Diego has long billed itself as ''America's finest city.'' But the pension deficit is draining general city finances, leading to cutbacks in library hours, after-school programs and pothole repairs. And because the city has not produced audited financial statements since 2002, it cannot issue bonds for projects like improving sewage treatment. 
 One could wonder why anybody would want to be mayor, especially given that there have been three in the last week, the latest being Councilwoman Toni Atkins. 
 ''There's more security being president of Iraq than there is being mayor of San Diego,'' the comedian Jay Leno remarked in a monologue on ''The Tonight Show.'' 
 Nevertheless, 11 candidates are on the ballot for a special election on Tuesday to replace Dick Murphy, who resigned last week as mayor barely eight months into his second term, saying the city needed a fresh start. 
 The candidates have different views of the city's needs. While Mr. Sanders says San Diego needs a strong leader, another candidate, a corporate executive, says the city should be run as a business. The environmental activist says city government needs to be more open. And the bankruptcy lawyer says San Diego should declare bankruptcy. 
 ''You're in a single forum in front of a single judge,'' said the lawyer, Pat Shea, arguing that bankruptcy would be the most efficient solution to the city's financial problems. Mr. Shea, who represented certain government entities in the Orange County bankruptcy proceedings in the 1990's, said that San Diego's pension deficit might be as large as $6 billion and that the city has to face up to ''reality reality'' as opposed to ''political reality.'' 
 But polls suggest that Mr. Shea has little chance of winning. And the other major candidates say bankruptcy is a drastic step that should be avoided. 
 The leader in the polls is Donna Frye, an environmental activist and co-owner of a surf shop, who joined the City Council in 2001. Ms. Frye ran a write-in campaign last November and nearly toppled Mr. Murphy. 
 Ms. Frye is the lone Democrat among the top contenders. Still, neither she nor any other candidate is expected to get 50 percent of the vote on Tuesday, so there is likely to be a runoff election in November between the top two finishers. 
 Vying for second place are Mr. Sanders and Steve Francis. After retiring as chief of police, Mr. Sanders helped turn around the local chapters of the Red Cross and the United Way and is closest to what may be called an establishment candidate. 
 Mr. Francis founded, ran and is now chairman of AMN Healthcare Services, a publicly traded corporation that supplies nurses to hospitals. He portrays himself as an outsider in the mold of New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 ''I plan to downsize city government through business principles of improving service through lower cost,'' Mr. Francis said in an interview in his office in one of the gleaming new business parks that stretch through the northern part of the city. 
 Mr. Francis has put nearly $2 million of his own money into the campaign, easily outspending his rivals. He has accused them of being open to raising taxes, forcing Mr. Sanders and Ms. Frye to state emphatically that they are not. 
 Some experts say the city's troubles began precisely because it was unwilling to tax itself, instead siphoning money from the pension fund. 
 ''This is a city that has lived on the cheap for years,'' said Steven P. Erie, a professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego. He said San Diego has lower taxes and fewer police officers and firefighters per person than many other cities. 
 Now, hard decisions will have to be made, including perhaps a rollback of what an editorial in The San Diego Union-Tribune called ''24-karat pensions'' for city workers. But the decisions are unlikely to be made soon. 
 The City Council could be partly paralyzed for months because it is down to six members, from eight, and five votes are needed to pass any measure. The election to replace the councilmen convicted in the so-called Strippergate affair, Ralph Inzunza and Michael Zucchet, is expected to be held in November, along with the possible mayoral runoff. Mr. Zucchet, who had been named acting mayor, and Mr. Inzunza could face two to five years in prison; they maintain their innocence and have said they will appeal. 
 Meanwhile, 4 of the 13 members of the pension system board have resigned in the last two weeks, leaving barely enough for a quorum. 
 Six former or current board members have been charged with felonies under the state's conflict-of-interest law. The board sought unsuccessfully this week to get a restraining order to force the city attorney to stop threatening legal action against it.
 What could help San Diego recover is its relatively strong economy. Once-dreary sections of downtown have been renovated with new homes and a trendy restaurant district called the Gaslamp Quarter. The biotechnology industry here is the envy of many cities. The unemployment rate is 4.4 percent. 
 Business leaders and politicians say the city's problems have not affected the economy or the business climate, though they are concerned about the prospects if the problem drags on too long or if a City Hall upheaval results in an end to pro-business policies. 
 For now, the city's blissful climate and beautiful beaches somehow make the problems easier to take for many residents. 
 ''Bottom line,'' said Rudy Ramirez, who has a metal fabrication business in nearby Chula Vista, ''I still wouldn't live anywhere else.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna Frye, Richard Rider, Pat Shea, Myke Shelby, Jerry Sanders and Steve Francis in a debate last week in the race to succeed Dick Murphy as mayor. He resigned July 15, saying San Diego needed a fresh start. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICS (86%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); ETHICS (71%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (52%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (52%) Elections; Mayors; Ethics; Politics and Government

COMPANY: STATON INSTITUTE INC (56%); AMERICA'S FINEST PRODUCTS (56%); PURESPECTRUM INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (56%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (51%) Andrew Pollack; Dick (Mayor) Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) San Diego (Calif); San Diego (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



489 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: The Best Army We Can Buy

BYLINE: By David M. Kennedy. 
David M. Kennedy, a professor of history at Stanford and the author of the Pulitzer-Prize winning ''Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945,'' is working on a book about the American national character.

 BODY:
THE United States now has a mercenary army. To be sure, our soldiers are hired from within the citizenry, unlike the hated Hessians whom George III recruited to fight against the American Revolutionaries. But like those Hessians, today's volunteers sign up for some mighty dangerous work largely for wages and benefits -- a compensation package that may not always be commensurate with the dangers in store, as current recruiting problems testify. 
 Neither the idealism nor the patriotism of those who serve is in question here. The profession of arms is a noble calling, and there is no shame in wage labor. But the fact remains that the United States today has a military force that is extraordinarily lean and lethal, even while it is increasingly separated from the civil society on whose behalf it fights. This is worrisome -- for reasons that go well beyond unmet recruiting targets. 
One troubling aspect is obvious. By some reckonings, the Pentagon's budget is greater than the military expenditures of all other nations combined. It buys an arsenal of precision weapons for highly trained troops who can lay down a coercive footprint in the world larger and more intimidating than anything history has known. Our leaders tell us that our armed forces seek only just goals, and at the end of the day will be understood as exerting a benign influence. Yet that perspective may not come so easily to those on the receiving end of that supposedly beneficent violence. 
 But the modern military's disjunction from American society is even more disturbing. Since the time of the ancient Greeks through the American Revolutionary War and well into the 20th century, the obligation to bear arms and the privileges of citizenship have been intimately linked. It was for the sake of that link between service and a full place in society that the founders were so invested in militias and so worried about standing armies, which Samuel Adams warned were ''always dangerous to the liberties of the people.'' 
 Many African-Americans understood that link in the Civil War, and again in World Wars I and II, when they clamored for combat roles, which they saw as stepping stones to equal rights. From Aristotle's Athens to Machiavelli's Florence to Thomas Jefferson's Virginia and Robert Gould Shaw's Boston and beyond, the tradition of the citizen-soldier has served the indispensable purposes of sustaining civic engagement, protecting individual liberty -- and guaranteeing political accountability. 
 That tradition has now been all but abandoned. A comparison with a prior generation's war illuminates the point. In World War II, the United States put some 16 million men and women into uniform. What's more, it mobilized the economic, social and psychological resources of the society down to the last factory, rail car, classroom and victory garden. World War II was a ''total war.'' Waging it compelled the participation of all citizens and an enormous commitment of society's energies. 
 But thanks to something that policymakers and academic experts grandly call the ''revolution in military affairs,'' which has wedded the newest electronic and information technologies to the destructive purposes of the second-oldest profession, we now have an active-duty military establishment that is, proportionate to population, about 4 percent of the size of the force that won World War II. And today's military budget is about 4 percent of gross domestic product, as opposed to nearly 40 percent during World War II. 
 The implications are deeply unsettling: history's most potent military force can now be put into the field by a society that scarcely breaks a sweat when it does so. We can now wage war while putting at risk very few of our sons and daughters, none of whom is obliged to serve. Modern warfare lays no significant burdens on the larger body of citizens in whose name war is being waged. 
 This is not a healthy situation. It is, among other things, a standing invitation to the kind of military adventurism that the founders correctly feared was the greatest danger of standing armies -- a danger made manifest in their day by the career of Napoleon Bonaparte, whom Jefferson described as having ''transferred the destinies of the republic from the civil to the military arm.'' 
 Some will find it offensive to call today's armed forces a ''mercenary army,'' but our troops are emphatically not the kind of citizen-soldiers that we fielded two generations ago -- drawn from all ranks of society without respect to background or privilege or education, and mobilized on such a scale that civilian society's deep and durable consent to the resort to arms was absolutely necessary. 
 Leaving questions of equity aside, it cannot be wise for a democracy to let such an important function grow so far removed from popular participation and accountability. It makes some supremely important things too easy -- like dealing out death and destruction to others, and seeking military solutions on the assumption they will be swifter and more cheaply bought than what could be accomplished by the more vexatious business of diplomacy. 
 The life of a robust democratic society should be strenuous; it should make demands on its citizens when they are asked to engage with issues of life and death. The ''revolution in military affairs'' has made obsolete the kind of huge army that fought World War II, but a universal duty to service -- perhaps in the form of a lottery, or of compulsory national service with military duty as one option among several -- would at least ensure that the civilian and military sectors do not become dangerously separate spheres. War is too important to be left either to the generals or the politicians. It must be the people's business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MILITARY RECRUITING (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); CLASSICS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Reserves (Military); United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: David M Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%); GREECE (78%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



490 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Toyota, Moving Northward

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Modern American politics is dominated by the doctrine that government is the problem, not the solution. In practice, this doctrine translates into policies that make low taxes on the rich the highest priority, even if lack of revenue undermines basic public services. You don't have to be a liberal to realize that this is wrong-headed. Corporate leaders understand quite well that good public services are also good for business. But the political environment is so polarized these days that top executives are often afraid to speak up against conservative dogma.
 Instead, they vote with their feet. Which brings us to the story of Toyota's choice. 
There has been fierce competition among states hoping to attract a new Toyota assembly plant. Several Southern states reportedly offered financial incentives worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
 But last month Toyota decided to put the new plant, which will produce RAV4 mini-S.U.V.'s, in Ontario. Explaining why it passed up financial incentives to choose a U.S. location, the company cited the quality of Ontario's work force.
 What made Toyota so sensitive to labor quality issues? Maybe we should discount remarks from the president of the Toronto-based Automotive Parts Manufacturers' Association, who claimed that the educational level in the Southern United States was so low that trainers for Japanese plants in Alabama had to use ''pictorials'' to teach some illiterate workers how to use high-tech equipment. 
 But there are other reports, some coming from state officials, that confirm his basic point: Japanese auto companies opening plants in the Southern U.S. have been unfavorably surprised by the work force's poor level of training. 
 There's some bitter irony here for Alabama's governor. Just two years ago voters overwhelmingly rejected his plea for an increase in the state's rock-bottom taxes on the affluent, so that he could afford to improve the state's low-quality education system. Opponents of the tax hike convinced voters that it would cost the state jobs.
 But education is only one reason Toyota chose Ontario. Canada's other big selling point is its national health insurance system, which saves auto manufacturers large sums in benefit payments compared with their costs in the United States.
 You might be tempted to say that Canadian taxpayers are, in effect, subsidizing Toyota's move by paying for health coverage. But that's not right, even aside from the fact that Canada's health care system has far lower costs per person than the American system, with its huge administrative expenses. In fact, U.S. taxpayers, not Canadians, will be hurt by the northward movement of auto jobs. 
 To see why, bear in mind that in the long run decisions like Toyota's probably won't affect the overall number of jobs in either the United States or Canada. But the result of international competition will be to give Canada more jobs in industries like autos, which pay health benefits to their U.S. workers, and fewer jobs in industries that don't provide those benefits. In the U.S. the effect will be just the reverse: fewer jobs with benefits, more jobs without. 
 So what's the impact on taxpayers? In Canada, there's no impact at all: since all Canadians get government-provided health insurance in any case, the additional auto jobs won't increase government spending.
 But U.S. taxpayers will suffer, because the general public ends up picking up much of the cost of health care for workers who don't get insurance through their jobs. Some uninsured workers and their families end up on Medicaid. Others end up depending on emergency rooms, which are heavily subsidized by taxpayers. 
 Funny, isn't it? Pundits tell us that the welfare state is doomed by globalization, that programs like national health insurance have become unsustainable. But Canada's universal health insurance system is handling international competition just fine. It's our own system, which penalizes companies that treat their workers well, that's in trouble.
 I'm sure that some readers will respond to everything I've just said by asking why, if the Canadians are so smart, they aren't richer. But I'll have to leave the issue of America's comparative economic performance for another day.
 For now, let me just point out that treating people decently is sometimes a competitive advantage. In America, basic health insurance is a privilege; in Canada, it's a right. And in the auto industry, at least, the good jobs are heading north. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%) Automobiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Automobiles

COMPANY: CANADA'S HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (95%) Ontario Province (Canada); Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



491 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: 4 MAJOR UNIONS PLAN TO BOYCOTT A.F.L.-C.I.O. EVENT

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 24 

 BODY:
Leaders of four of the country's largest labor unions announced on Sunday that they would boycott this week's A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention, and officials from two of those unions, the service employees and the Teamsters, said the action was a prelude to their full withdrawal from the federation on Monday.
 The schism is the biggest rift in labor since the 1930's, when the Congress of Industrial Organizations, which was trying to unionize mass production workers in automobiles, steel and other industries, split off from the American Federation of Labor, which largely represented elite craft workers. This week's labor convention here was supposed to be a celebratory occasion marking the 50th anniversary of the merger.
 Instead, the gathering has been marked by a split, the culmination of a rancorous debate within the union movement that also threatens to hurt labor's efforts in lobbying and in political campaigns, a development that concerns Democrats.
 Leaders of the service employees union, the food and commercial workers union, the Teamsters and Unite Here, which represents apparel, hotel and restaurant employees, said they were shunning the convention because, in their view, the federation under the leadership of its president, John J. Sweeney, has been ineffective in halting the decades-long slide of organized labor. 
 Deepening the rift, the leaders of the four dissident unions, as well as the leaders of the laborers and the United Farm Workers, said that as a protest they were giving up their seats on the federation's executive council and would not seek re-election at the convention this week.
 Two of the unions said they would take a further step.
 Officials from the Service Employees International Union and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters who insisted on anonymity because a formal announcement had not been made said their unions would announce on Monday, the day the convention begins, that they were quitting the federation. The service employees, with 1.8 million members, and the Teamsters, with 1.4 million, are two of the biggest unions in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. They contribute $20 million each year, or about one-sixth of its budget.
 In addition, Joe Hansen, the president of the United Food and Commercial Workers, indicated that his union would probably also leave, despite Mr. Sweeney's efforts to persuade them to stay.
 ''We are certainly willing to listen to anything they want to say,'' Mr. Hansen said. ''Our differences are so fundamental and so principled that I don't think there will be any change in course.''
 A rift could hurt the labor movement badly by redirecting its focus and energies to internal battles instead of bedrock issues like fighting for wage increases and extending health care to more workers. Democrats, a traditional ally of organized labor, are especially worried that a schism might hurt their party's chances by making labor a less potent political force.
 Andrew L. Stern, president of the service employees, defended the boycott, saying drastic changes were needed to save labor from further decline; the percentage of private-sector workers in unions has sunk to less than 8 percent from 35 percent a half-century ago.
 ''We're not trying to divide the labor movement -- we're trying to rebuild it,'' said Mr. Stern, who is known as one of labor's most charismatic figures, though he has at times been accused of arrogance. ''We have to do everything in our power to help workers. But when you're going down a road and it's headed in the wrong direction, and you know where the road ends, you got to get off the road and walk in a new direction where there is hope.''
 In unusually vituperative language, several union presidents accused the insurgents of betraying the labor movement, asserting that their boycott was sabotaging the cardinal notion of labor solidarity. 
 ''Today is a tragic day because those who left the house of labor are weakening our house, and shame on them,'' said Leo Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America. ''Solidarity is more than saying, 'My way or the highway, and if you don't do it my way, I'll take my marbles and run.'''
 The four unions boycotting the convention represent about one-third of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s 13 million members. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is the nation's main labor federation, a grouping of 56 unions that coordinates union activities in politics and often serves as the voice of American workers on job safety, raising the minimum wage and other issues. 
 The dissident leaders asserted that the federation, as structured, was not equipped to halt labor's decline. They said they were looking to a group they formed, the Change to Win Coalition, to encourage union growth with, for instance, multiunion organizing drives against large companies, including Federal Express and Wal-Mart.
 Mr. Sweeney voiced dismay, bordering on anger, with the boycotters' actions.
 ''Not to attend the convention, especially when the differences that remain between our proposals are so narrow, is an insult to their union brothers and sisters, and to all working people,'' he said. ''It's far easier to tear down a union movement than to build one. America's working people cannot afford for unions to declare 'it's my way or the highway' when workers are under the biggest assault in 80 years.'' 
 Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said many union leaders had tried to persuade the unions not to walk out. 
 ''I think everybody is hurt by this,'' he said. ''This hurts American workers. This hurts the trade union federation that is the center of the planet for workers around the world.''
 Mr. McEntee, who is chairman of the federation's political committee, said the walkout would weaken labor's political clout by weakening its role of coordinating nationwide campaign activities for unions. In the 2004 election, polls showed that voters from union households accounted for 24 percent of all votes and that those households gave Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, a 5.8 million-vote majority.
 ''I think the only one who wins from this is George Bush and his minions who are trying to weaken labor unions,'' Mr. McEntee said.
 The dissident leaders argued that they were boycotting over matters of principle, saying that under Mr. Sweeney the federation was shrinking from the drastic actions needed to make labor grow again. Those leaders have demanded that Mr. Sweeney agree to refund half the federation's budget to individual unions so they can spend that money to organize more workers.
 Mr. Sweeney asserted that he had substantially increased the federation's spending on union organizing, but that rebating half its budget would cripple activities in politics, job safety and other areas.
 Several union leaders said the dissidents were engaged not in a fight over principle, but in an ego trip and power grab.
 ''If you want attention, if you're looking to turn the spotlight on yourself, this is the strategy you follow,'' said Harold Schaitberger, president of the International Association of Fire Fighters.
 Many of the convention delegates planned to celebrate Mr. Sweeney's re-election to a new four-year term, which is a foregone conclusion. Until this week's developments, several dissident leaders had signaled they would not consider leaving if Mr. Sweeney, 71, stepped down. He has headed the federation since 1995. 
 Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the United Auto Workers, had at first flirted with the dissidents, sharing some of their criticism that the federation was not doing enough to turn things around. But on Sunday he criticized the boycott.
 ''The house of labor is always stronger when it is united,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said. ''It won't be the end of the world, what they're doing. It will just make the challenges we face that much harder.''
 Sunday's preconvention events often seemed like competing pep rallies. At an event to support Mr. Sweeney's re-election, a band blared, ''Solidarity Forever,'' and hundreds of delegates wore T-shirts saying, ''the Sweeney Solidarity Team -- One Strong Voice for Workers Rights.''
 Before 2,000 Sweeney supporters, Linda Chavez-Thompson, Mr. Sweeney's running mate for executive vice president, laid into several entities that she said had sought to weaken labor -- the Bush administration, the United States Chamber of Commerce, Wal-Mart -- and then she surprised her audience by adding, ''the Change to Win Coalition.''
 Mr. Sweeney criticized the convention boycott, saying, ''It's a shame for working people that before the first vote has been cast, four unions have decided that if they can't win, they won't show up for the game.''
 The Change to Win Coalition held a news conference, with hundreds of union members attending, that served in ways as a kickoff meeting for the new group. 
 ''The exciting news is that the Change to Win Coalition is about one thing: new hope for millions of workers in economic crisis,'' said Anna Burger, the coalition's chairwoman. ''All of organized labor sees this crisis. Our coalition, however, believes that we can do something about it, and has a bold plan of action to make real change.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Three A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders, from left, John J. Sweeney, the president
Richard Trumka, the secretary-treasurer
 and Linda Chavez-Thompson, the executive vice president, yesterday at the convention in Chicago. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (97%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FARM LABOR (67%); BUDGETS (61%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Organized Labor ; Boycotts; Labor; Fringe Benefits 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%); UNITE HERE (82%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%) Service Employees International Union; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; United Food and Commercial Workers Union; Unite Here (Labor Union)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; John J Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



492 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Some Industry Advice to German Musicians: Never Mind the English Lessons

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON, July 24 

 BODY:
German was the language of Wagner, Mozart, Bach and Beethoven. But since English rock 'n' roll arrived, German has not been a popular language for musicians, even native ones. 
 Except for lederhosen-and-dirndl groups, new-wave artists in the 1980's and a few industrial metal bands, German artists have had to polish their English if they wanted to get anywhere near the music charts.
But that seems to be changing, and some German-speaking artists are providing a hint of promise for a music industry battered by piracy and economic stagnation. Music sales in Germany, which plummeted 40 percent in the last four years, are showing signs of stabilizing. 
 German-speaking artists are leading a revival of local talent, music executives say, as the industry suffers from a shortage of English-language, international superstars who had once dominated sales. 
 ''It's considered cool again to sing in German,'' said Frank Briegmann, chief executive of Universal Music Germany. ''Culturally, after all that has happened in Germany, people accept listening to German texts again. Even young people.''
 European music executives, who had spent the last few years paring rosters of local talent in an effort to cut costs, are now searching for such acts -- particularly in Germany, and especially if they sing in German. 
 Though imported stars, mostly from the United States and Britain, still represent the majority of sales in Germany, their dominance is easing. Domestic acts rose to 49 percent of German music sales last year, up from 40 percent in 2001, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. 
 Alain Levy, chairman and chief executive of EMI Music, said the trend, also seen in some other European markets, was encouraging because any recovery for the industry was likely to be led by local artists. 
 ''A market can only be healthy if the local repertoire is healthy,'' he said. ''I don't consider I have a good company if local repertoire isn't at least equal to the imports.'' 
 In France, local music accounted for 63 percent of sales last year, up from 51 percent in 2000. Elsewhere in Europe, domestic artists have also made gains; the trend is less pronounced in Britain, which has always had a vibrant music industry, and where language is less of an issue. 
 Executives say the reasons for the rise in local European music may include the backlash against globalization as well as an improvement in the quality of domestic acts, after years in which one-hit wonders generated by television contest shows like ''Pop Idol'' dominated the charts. 
 In France, local musicians have benefited from quotas imposed on radio stations in 1994, stipulating that 40 percent of pop music broadcast must be in French. 
 Last year, German lawmakers considered imposing quotas before opting for a mere recommendation that radio stations play more local music. The move followed years of complaints from record companies that their domestic musicians, particularly German-speaking ones, were being ignored. 
 Of the 25 best-selling albums in Germany last year, Mr. Briegmann said, 10 were by domestic musicians. But local acts accounted for 2 of the 25 most frequently played individual tracks on German radio, he added. 
 ''It doesn't really matter what artists you pick up if you can't get them on the radio or into the shops,'' said Helen Smith, deputy secretary general at Impala, an organization representing independent record labels. 
 The record companies are, in general, ambivalent about quotas, and say that by signing the right artists and marketing them effectively they, not the radio stations, can drive consumer choices. And, in the case of German-singing musicians in Germany, that seems to be working. 
 Wir Sind Helden, an alternative rock band, recently rose to the top of the German charts with its album ''Von Hier An Blind,'' distributed by EMI. A pop act signed by Universal Music, called Juli, is also doing well. 
 Sony BMG, meanwhile, has scored a hit with Annett Louisan, whose album ''Boheme'' it distributes in a deal with an independent label, 105 Music. Other, longer established acts continue to do well, including Universal's Rosenstolz, a pop group, and Rammstein, an industrial metal group known for its pyrotechnics and its flirtation with fascist imagery. 
 Of course, not all successful German acts are singing in German, at least not yet. Warner Music had one of the best-selling albums last year when Sasha Schmitz, a pop singer, created a spoof band, Dick Brave & the Backbeats, singing covers of American rockabilly hits. 
 But all of the success stories pale in comparison with the smash hit ''Schnappi das Kleine Krokodil,'' a children's ditty originally performed by a 4-year-old German girl, Joy Gruttmann, for a television show. 
 The song, distributed by Universal, sat atop the German sales lists for much of the winter. Now, in a rare example of German-language repertoire making it big internationally, it is rising up the charts in markets as far afield as Australia and New Zealand, and has sold more than a million copies globally.
 Other European acts have occasionally broken through elsewhere. In one quirky example, EMI has sold more than two million copies in Southeast Asia of ''Paint My Love -- Greatest Hits,'' by a Danish band called Michael Learns to Rock. 
 But in general, European music tends to stay local, in part because the doors to the United States market are tough to open. More than 90 percent of sales in the United States are accounted for by American groups, and much of the rest is English-speaking music from Britain.
 While the high cost of maintaining individual local artists and marketing operations in each European market contributed to the sharp roster cutbacks of the last few years, music executives say there are sometimes cost advantages to promoting local bands.
 They tend to travel with fewer hairdressers than American superstars, for example, and are willing to settle for smaller hotel suites. 
 ''If we learned something from the last three years, it's that it can't be English versus local -- it's both,'' said Mr. Levy of EMI. ''When you have too much in English in local markets, you get nervous.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The band Wir Sind Helden recently rose in the music charts in Germany. (Photo by EMI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%) Music; Sales; German Language; English Language; Recordings (Video)

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) GERMANY (99%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (78%) Germany; France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



493 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Pedagogy? No Problem. Fund-Raising? Tough Subject.

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: OXFORD, England 

 BODY:
With the prospect of dwindling state funds, the leaders of Oxford and Cambridge face a question that many people living beneath this city's dreaming spires may consider beneath their dignity: How do you market an 800-year-old university?
 American universities have whole departments devoted to fund-raising and marketing, but these have remained foreign to schools here. Both Oxford and Cambridge, however, have new fund-raising efforts under way.
''Fund-raising is a topic we have to approach very carefully because it is not ingrained in the culture of these universities like it is in the United States,'' said Frances Cairncross, rector of Exeter College in Oxford. ''There is a shift taking place, but it will take time.'' 
 Oxford has hired a fund-raiser from a North American university who will start work in October, and later this year the University of Cambridge will hold a public kickoff of its largest capital campaign ever, pegged to its 800th anniversary in 2009.
 For all their prestige and fame, cashing in on their brand names will take more than a simple campaign, according to John Birnsteel, a director of the London consulting firm Enterprise IG. 
 ''While they are both among the most prestigious educational establishments in the world, their amateur communications efforts give totally mixed messages to alumni,'' said Mr. Birnsteel, a graduate of Queen's College, Cambridge. ''As it stands, I can never understand who is asking for money or for what.'' 
 To eliminate confusion, both universities should establish a ''master brand,'' Mr. Birnsteel said.
 ''The key brand weakness is that there is very little identifying the universities as a single entity,'' he said. ''Sports unite universities in the U.S., but the only events that unite Oxford and Cambridge as a whole are a rugby game and a rowing race.''
 The result, Mr. Birnsteel says, is that he receives requests for money from his college, the university and from individual faculties. ''There is no streamlined message or economy of scale in this setup. Strong brands stand out from the clutter, but this does the opposite.'' 
 Officials from both universities agree that fund-raising efforts must somehow overcome the decentralized manner in which the universities have always been run. Individual colleges -- where students spend much of their time, and to which they hold strong allegiances -- seem to compete in fund-raising against the university itself. The university raises money for services, like the faculty of English or the department of chemistry.
 ''Alumni confusion about whether to give to their college or the university is something we are actively addressing now,'' said Aniela Shuckburgh, fund-raising campaign manager of the University of Cambridge. ''Our message is that giving to your college or the university as a whole is great, and both count towards our capital campaign. 
 ''The university is working closely with the colleges to simplify our message,'' Ms. Shuckburgh said. ''This is unprecedented, and we hope it will bring unprecedented results.''
 Traditionally, colleges will raise money for buildings, scholarships and perhaps the restoration of a chapel, and the university will raise money for such things as a new law department building, a new chair of chemistry and scholarships.
 ''Now we have narrowed it all down to four objectives,'' Ms. Shuckburgh said. ''We want money for investing in students, investing in staff, investing in discovering creativity and investing in our great collections.''
 Over at Oxford, fund-raising has also become a higher priority. Formerly undertaken by the director of development, who answered to the college registrar, fund-raising has been raised to the level of a pro vice chancellor answering directly to the university's top executive, the vice chancellor.
 Jon Dellandrea, the first person to fill the newly created post at Oxford, came from the University of Toronto, where he worked in a similar post.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BRANDING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%) Colleges and Universities; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Oxford University; Cambridge University

PERSON: Thomas Crampton

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



494 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: A New Worry for Investors: Retirees' Medical Benefits

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
As double-digit inflation in health care siphons more and more cash from old-line companies with generous benefits, big investors are growing wary. 
 ''Rapidly rising health care costs depress the returns of our pension fund,'' said George Diehr, a health benefits official at the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the nation's largest public pension fund, with more than $180 billion in assets.
 General Motors brought the issue to the fore last month, when Rick Wagoner, the company's chief executive, warned that ''the health care crisis is putting our future at stake.'' And last Wednesday, discussing G.M.'s second-quarter loss, the company's chief financial officer, John M. Devine, said in a conference call with analysts that health care remained the company's biggest cost issue. 
 But G.M. is hardly alone. Financial professionals say health costs are also a big drag on the investment value of the stocks and bonds of many other companies in heavy industries, as well as airlines, railroads, telecommunications and others. The companies under pressure are ones that promised medical coverage to their employees and retirees, in many cases long before the surging prices of new drugs and procedures sent costs spiraling. 
 David Zion, an accounting analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, estimates that companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index spent $30 billion on health care and other nonpension benefits for retirees in 2004. ''It's a cash-flow issue for a lot of these companies,'' he said, ''a cost that may be growing faster than the underlying business.'' 
 While the financial risks of corporate pension obligations have been better publicized, portfolio managers and their advisers say health costs may pose even greater uncertainty. Compared with their pension safeguards, however fragile, most companies have no reserve funds at all to cover their future health outlays. 
 Mr. Zion has analyzed pension commitments, as well as the health care promises that are listed as ''other postretirement employee obligations'' on Securities and Exchange Commission filings. ''Time and again we noted that these 'other' plans were in worse shape than the pension plans,'' he said. 
 Because of the soaring costs of health care coverage, an estimated 40 percent of companies with more than 5,000 employees no longer offer retiree health benefits. Among those that do, many finance employee and retiree health care on a pay-as-you-go basis. ''Credit analysts see those promises as just more debt that a company owes,'' notes Ed Heilbron, a consultant with Mercer Investment Consulting. ''And stock prices do reflect this.''
 Larry Puglia, the lead portfolio manager of the Blue Chip Growth fund at T. Rowe Price, acknowledges that health obligations influence his investment strategy. ''We typically would not have big exposure to General Motors and some of the manufacturers that have big pension and health care liabilities,'' he said.
 His fund, for example, does not include Boeing, which estimated its retiree health and other nonpension obligations at $8.14 billion at the end of last year, and has assets of less than $100 million to cover them. Nor does Mr. Puglia's fund hold shares of DuPont, which reported $4.8 billion in nonpension retiree obligations -- with no assets to cover the obligations. 
 The T. Rowe Price fund does have a big position in General Electric, mainly because G.E. is growing robustly, despite having reported $9.25 billion in retiree health obligations. The company has set aside assets of $1.65 billion toward covering those future benefits and says it plans to add $710 million this year.
 Richard Bernstein, the chief United States strategist for Merrill Lynch, says stock investors are probably less likely than bond holders to monitor health care pressures. Bond buyers, he said, ''are very worried about the longer-term obligations of the company and the company's ability to pay those longer-term obligations.'' 
 Standard & Poor's, the bond-rating firm, said in April 2003 that it was putting two dozen companies on ''credit watch with negative implications'' to reflect, among other concerns, their poorly funded benefit commitments to retirees. One was Alcoa, whose credit rating was lowered a notch by S.&P. to A- from A, ''based on erosion of the company's financial profile, largely caused by its postretirement benefit costs.''
 Alcoa recognized $3.8 billion in obligations to future retirees as of Dec. 31, 2004, according to a regulatory filing. Jake Siewert, a spokesman for Alcoa, said his company had strong cash flow -- $2.2 billion last year -- to amply cover its obligations, which included payments to retirees of $355 million in 2004. 
 Like many employers, Alcoa has sought to rein in its commitments by curtailing its health care promises to recently hired workers. Employees hired after Jan. 1, 2002, will not receive health coverage as retirees. 
 Recognizing the pressures on private employers, the federal Medicare program will give companies $50 billion in tax benefits to help with prescription drug coverage for Medicare-eligible retirees over the next eight years, according to the latest Congressional Budget Office estimate. The credits are an incentive to keep private companies paying for drugs, one of the fastest-growing drivers of medical inflation, after Medicare starts its new drug program next year. 
 ''The Medicare bill was a very good first step,'' said Jerry Dubrowski, a General Motors spokesman. ''It provided very significant savings to companies like G.M., but all of that was overwhelmed by the increasing medical costs.''
 G.M., which does set aside money for future retiree benefits, has reported that the sum of its health care promises to retirees was $77.47 billion in 2004. That was up $9.93 billion from 2003 and included an estimated $4 billion in future Medicare drug subsidies. 
 Scott Sprinzen, a bond analyst at Standard & Poor's, notes that health care inflation has moderated somewhat but that is still is far higher than general inflation and revenue growth rates, which remain in the low single digits for most companies. H.M.O.'s are listing premiums for 2006 that are up 12.9 percent from this year, according to a survey of large employers by Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm. 
 Mr. Zion, the analyst, says that as health costs continue to outpace average corporate revenue growth, companies have dwindling options. ''Either they keep covering these benefits, or try to cut the costs, pass more of costs to retirees, for example, or try to get the taxpayer to help through government subsidies,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bernstein, at Merrill Lynch, sees ''a big moral hazard issue embedded in this issue.''
 ''If we are not careful,'' he said, ''we'll see a lot of corporations default on both their health care and their pensions. It's like a bond: cash flow runs short, you default on the bond.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Boeing says its doesn't have the assets to cover its retiree health and other nonpension obligations. (Photo by Ted S. Warren/Associated Press)Chart: ''Rising Health Costs''Although the rate of growth for health insurance premiums has slowed, it continues to outpace overall inflation.Graph tracks health insurance premiums rate of growth against overall inflation (annual changes) from 1998-2004.(Sources by American Hospital Association
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); DRUG PRICES (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Labor

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (58%) General Motors Corp; General Electric Co; Alcoa Inc; Boeing Co

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (55%); JOHN M DEVINE (55%) Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



495 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: To Reduce the Cost of Teenage Temptation, Why Not Just Raise the Price of Sin?

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
WHEN you look back on all the attempts to curb teenage drinking, smoking and drug use over the last couple of decades, you start to ask yourself a question that countless parents have asked: Does anybody really know how to change a teenager's behavior?
 Sometimes the government and advocacy groups have used straight talk, like Nancy Reagan's ''Just Say No'' campaign. Other times they have tried to play it cool. They drop an egg into a sizzling frying pan and announce, ''This is your brain on drugs,'' or they print mock advertisements that pretend to market cancer. It all feels like a delicate exercise in adolescent psychology. 
Much of this back and forth is unnecessary. There is in fact a surefire way to get teenagers to consume less beer, tobacco and drugs, according to one study after another: raise the cost, in terms of either dollars or potential punishment. 
 In just about every state that increased beer taxes in recent years, teenage drinking soon dropped. The same happened in the early 1990's when Arizona, Maryland, New Jersey and a handful of other states passed zero-tolerance laws, which suspend the licenses of under-21 drivers who have any trace of alcohol in their blood. In states that waited until the late 90's to adopt zero tolerance, like Colorado, Indiana and South Carolina, the decline generally did not happen until after the law was in place.
 Teenagers, it turns out, are highly rational creatures in some ways. Budweisers and Marlboros are discretionary items, and their customers treat them as such. Gasoline consumption, by contrast, changes only marginally when the price of a gallon does.
 ''When people think about drugs, alcohol, even cigarettes, they think about addiction and this strong desire to consume them. They don't think price has an effect,'' said Sara Markowitz, an economist at Rutgers University in Newark, who studies public health. ''That's just wrong. And it holds among kids even more so than among adults.''
 Not only that, but unprotected sex tended to become less common after the changes in the law, according to studies. Gonorrhea and H.I.V. rates dropped. So did drunken-driving deaths and, for boys, suicides. Whatever the policies' downsides -- and they are not insignificant -- they have some of the clearest benefits of any government action.
 They are also a useful reminder of how often the power of incentives is underestimated. Taste, style, trendiness and advertising all do affect human behavior. A study in the Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine this month, for example, found that antitobacco television ads do seem to reduce smoking. But nothing has quite the sway that an economic carrot or stick does.
 When a big superstore moves into town, many shoppers who claim to prefer the coziness of mom-and-pop stores trek out to the megamall for the lower prices. (You know who you are.) When the government cut welfare payments in the 1990's, many people who had been receiving them went back to work. 
 Even when inscrutable teenagers and addictive substances are involved, the basic dynamic does not change.
 Tax increases on alcohol and tobacco have been fairly common in recent years, allowing researchers to look for the crucial before-and-after effect that helps separate correlation from causation. Alaska, Nebraska, Nevada, Tennessee and Utah have all increased alcohol taxes since 2002. Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia -- tobacco-growing states all -- are among those that have raised cigarette taxes.
 Just because states with higher taxes have lower teenage drinking and smoking rates does not mean that one caused the other. An outside force -- like a highly educated population, which might tend to eschew beer and cigarettes but vote for higher taxes -- could instead be the underlying cause.
 But if drinking or smoking always seems to fall after a tax increase, then the case becomes far stronger. Looking across the states and taking into account all the other factors that can be measured, researchers have found that a 1 percent increase in the price of beer leads to a drop in teenage consumption of between 1 and 4 percent, Dr. Markowitz said. For cigarettes, a 1 percent price increase causes roughly a 1 percent decline in smoking.
 Using the same method, researchers can also answer a question that has long occupied public health specialists. It is generally accepted that youngsters who drink, smoke and use drugs are also more likely to take dangerous risks, like having unprotected sex. But does one lead to the other? Or as Christopher Carpenter, an economist at the University of California, Irvine, puts it, are there simply ''bad kids'' given to misbehaving in all sorts of ways?
 Depending on your definition of misbehavior, the answer is both. When alcohol taxes rose, the number of teenagers who reported having had sex in recent months did not change, according to a study by Michael Grossman of the City University of New York and Dr. Markowitz. Nor did the number of partners they had. 
 But fewer teenagers had unprotected sex. The number of new gonorrhea cases and -- though the evidence on this was weaker -- new H.I.V. cases also dropped. Since teenagers get these diseases at far higher rates than the rest of the population, any decline can be a big deal.
 The enactment of zero-tolerance driving laws also appeared to lead to a fall in sexually transmitted diseases. For boys between the ages of 15 and 20, suicide rates fell 7 percent to 10 percent after a law was put in place, Dr. Carpenter found. (The fact that the effects seem to be concentrated among boys and whites is a mystery that awaits future research.)
 ''When zero-tolerance laws were being debated, it wasn't like, 'Let's reduce drunk-driving deaths -- and gonorrhea and suicide,''' he said. ''This is an unintended, surprising consequence.''
 Zero-tolerance laws also have the advantage of being aimed specifically at teenagers. New alcohol taxes, on the other hand, take money from millions of people who do not spread venereal diseases or drive drunk. 
 But zero tolerance is now the law of the land in all 50 states, Dr. Carpenter said. There is no more public health uptick to get from it. So until somebody comes up with a smart new incentive, another ''Don't Drink and Drive'' campaign might be the best tool out there.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); TEEN SUICIDE (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); CANCER (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); CONSUMPTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (69%); GASOLINE (68%); SALES TAX (67%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Alcohol Abuse; Smoking and Tobacco; Taxation; Sales Tax; Children and Youth; Venereal Diseases; Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Drunken and Reckless Driving

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (75%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



496 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan to Help Afghans Contain Election Strife

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, July 24 

 BODY:
Pakistan assured Afghanistan on Sunday that it would do all it could to prevent militant violence ahead of September elections in Afghanistan, and announced that it would give $100 million in aid.
 Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz of Pakistan visited Kabul after repeated Afghan complaints that militants allied with Afghanistan's former Taliban rulers had infiltrated from havens in Pakistan to carry out attacks in which hundreds of people have died this year.
 While Mr. Aziz was in Kabul, the United States military said that one of its soldiers had been killed and another wounded earlier on Sunday in what was suspected of being a Taliban attack in southern Afghanistan. 
 Also on Sunday, a suicide attacker blew himself up just inside Pakistan near trucks preparing to cross into Afghanistan with fuel for American forces, wounding a man and a woman, a Pakistani security official said.
 Mr. Aziz said at a joint news conference after talks with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan that they had held detailed discussions on ways to increase security for Afghanistan's parliamentary elections, planned for Sept. 18.
 Mr. Karzai said he hoped the two countries could find ways to deal with militants ''effectively and soon.''
 The two leaders also discussed trade, economic development, investment and the battle against illegal drugs.
 Mr. Aziz announced an aid package of $100 million for Afghanistan's postwar reconstruction and proposed the building of a border railway to facilitate trade.
 Last October, Pakistan stepped up border security to prevent militant infiltration ahead of Afghanistan's presidential elections, and they were conducted largely without incident.
 Mr. Aziz said Sunday that Pakistan had deployed nearly 80,000 troops along its Afghan border and would station more there if needed.
 Most of the violence by insurgents in Afghanistan this year -- the worst since American-led troops overthrew the Taliban in late 2001 -- has happened near the border with Pakistan.
 The death of the American soldier, in Helmand Province, brought to at least 36 the number of American troops killed in combat in Afghanistan this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); DEATHS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (51%) Foreign Aid ; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



497 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

DreamWorks Struggles as a Public Company
For Jeffrey Katzenberg, who had top jobs at Paramount Pictures and the Walt Disney Company before co-founding DreamWorks SKG in 1994, it seemed natural that he would become the chief executive of his own company. But what has caught many by surprise is the number of blunders DreamWorks Animation has made since going public last October. [Page C1.]

Opening New York to Internet Wine Sales
Two months after the Supreme Court handed them a long-awaited victory, winemakers and drinkers in New York, California and many other states can finally celebrate. On July 14, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York signed into law a bill that allows out-of-state wineries to ship directly to the state's consumers, while permitting the state's wineries to ship to consumers in 28 other states. Industry executives and analysts said the law could send millions more consumers online to buy wines from smaller vineyards. Bob Tedeschi, E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

Competing, but Also Talking About Cooperating
Sony and Samsung go head-to-head in retail stores with their televisions, DVD recorders and camcorders. Yet in a twist emblematic of the companies' shifting prospects, Sony has increasingly been looking to Samsung to revive its sagging fortunes. [C1.]

Vioxx Trial Shifts Focus Slightly to Link With Victim
After a week of heavy blows, Merck's defense in the first Vioxx trial showed some cracks. But it is still standing. Lawyers for plaintiffs have much more work ahead if they are to convince a jury that Merck is responsible for the death of Robert Ernst, a Texas man who died in his bed at 59 in June 2001 after taking Vioxx, the company's prescription painkiller, for eight months. This week, lawyers for plaintiffs will move away from presenting evidence that Merck hid Vioxx's risks, and focus on the link between Vioxx and Mr. Ernst's death. [C1.]

As School Days Approach, Merchants Change Tactics
Adjustments in attitude and latitude over the years are only some of the challenges Kmart and other retailers face as they gear up for another before-school sales season. For one thing, the back-to-school selling period looms larger in importance than it did before. Another challenge is the evolution of the back-to-school calendar. Stuart Elliott, Advertising. [C7.]

New Classics, but a Judge Rules They Stray From Format
After changing its programming in 2002 to include more contemporary films, including movies like ''Staying Alive'' and the ''Look Who's Talking'' movies, the American Movie Classics channel was sued by Time Warner Cable for veering too far from its original format of classic movies. A court ruling earlier this month gave the Time Warner unit the green light to drop the station, but a spokesman for Time Warner Cable said had not decided if it would stop carrying AMC. AMC said it planned to appeal the judge's decision. [C8.]

Last week, John Roberts, the chief White House correspondent for CBS News, had the task of announcing President Bush's nominee for the Supreme Court: John Roberts, the federal judge. [C8.]

A recent study financed by major radio networks claims to show that radio advertising is a 49 percent better investment than television ads. But the television industry has tried to use the study to its advantage. [C8.]

Health Costs Put Pressure on Old-Line Companies
As double-digit inflation in health care siphons more and more cash from old-line companies with generous benefits, investors are growing wary. General Motors brought the issue to the fore when its chief executive warned that ''the health care crisis is putting our future at stake.'' But G.M. is not alone. Health costs are a drag on the value of many other companies in heavy industries, as well as airlines, railroads, telecommunications and others. Market Place. [C3.]

A Radio Program Turns to a Blog to Cull Ideas
With its reliance on talk formats and call-in shows, radio was arguably the first open-source media. Now a public radio program, ''Open Source from P.R.I.,'' will test whether collective intelligence permeating the Web can make not just loud radio, but smart radio. The show pulls from unfiltered voices and opinions found on blogs, and uses its own blog to cull ideas and sources from its listeners. Christopher Lydon, the program's host and co-creator with its executive producer, Mary McGrath, left, said, ''we are trying to push talk radio to a new range with the kind of Internet extensions in both getting the signal out and harvesting the energy and insight that comes on the Web.'' [C8.]

France Telecom Is Expected to Win Bid for Amena
In a sign that the private equity firms that have dominated European deal making are beginning to be squeezed out, France Telecom is expected to win a 10 billion euro, or $12 billion, fight for Spanish mobile company Amena. [C6.]

In Germany, Musical Artists Find Success
German has not been a popular language for musicians, even native ones. But that seems to be changing, and some German-speaking artists are providing a hint of promise for an industry battered by piracy and stagnation. [C8.]


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WINERIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FILM (89%); RETAILERS (89%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ANIMATION (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (67%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (67%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (66%); DEATHS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (94%); WALT DISNEY CO (91%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (94%); DIS (NYSE) (91%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



498 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Look to Virginia, Not China

 BODY:
This week, the House of Representatives is expected to take up free trade. As is always the case with trade votes, the debate promises to be bloody, as President Bush and Congressional Republican leaders beg and bribe antitrade members of their party to make up for the legions of Democrats who are lining up in opposition. 
 This time, the debate centers around the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, a pact between the United States and six countries with the combined economy of Connecticut: Guatemala, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. The usual free-trade foes have been joined by many usually pro-trade Democrats who just want to stick it to President Bush and are doing so in this case under the guise of protecting workers. The opposition also includes the sugar lobby, which apparently believes the huge, trade-distorting protections it already gets are not enough and wants to block more imports. 
The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Bill Thomas, plans to woo more anti-trade Republicans to Cafta by expediting a bill that would make it easier to retaliate against subsidized imports from China. What that has to do with Central American trade is anybody's guess.
 If Republicans and Democrats really want to help American workers compete in a global economy, they should be looking elsewhere, to retraining. The textile industry has long been one of the most protected in America. Tariffs on clothing bring in close to half of all tariff revenues per year, while those imports account for only about 6 percent of total imports. Despite all that protection, textile jobs have steadily disappeared.
 Instead of trying to turn back time, politicians in Washington should be following the very good example being set by Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia. Seeking to stem the job hemorrhage in rural southern Virginia as the region's textile plants were shuttered, Mr. Warner started creating one-stop worker-assistance storefronts in depressed rural towns in 2002. Beyond helping laid-off workers navigate the maze of federal trade adjustment assistance and unemployment checks, Mr. Warner backed a program to help workers without a high school diploma get a G.E.D. in 90 days or less. He put up incentive money to attract Nascar engine builders to the region. Indeed, the area's love for Nascar has been harnessed: state-sponsored ads tout the G.E.D. program at Nascar races. 
 So far, about 20,000 workers have gone through some aspect of the program, at one of the 131 centers in the state, Mr. Warner's aides say. The unemployment rate in one of the hardest-hit towns, Martinsville, was still a whopping 10.4 percent in May, but it was 15.7 percent in January 2002, when the program started.
 Thinking creatively about ways to help workers whose jobs migrate overseas should be a top priority from the White House to Capitol Hill to state capitols. That is a far more worthy expenditure of time than the politically expedient let's-blame-China farce now showing in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (88%); TEXTILES (86%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FABRIC MILLS (70%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); TEXTILE MILLS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); NASCAR RACING (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Law and Legislation; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); MARK WARNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); COSTA RICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005



499 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and North Korea Envoys Meet Ahead of 6-Nation Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, July 26 

 BODY:
Negotiators from the United States and North Korea held a rare, private meeting on Monday, underscoring the heightened stakes and grave concerns surrounding the six-nation talks on the North Korean nuclear crisis that opened here on Tuesday.
 The United States envoy, Christopher R. Hill, played down his 75-minute afternoon meeting with the North Koreans, and American officials in Beijing provided few details of the meeting. But in Washington, the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, described the meeting as ''businesslike'' and said that ''they were able to compare notes about how the talks might move forward.''
 The fact that Mr. Hill publicly acknowledged the bilateral talks -- which the United States had largely shunned in negotiating sessions that abruptly ended more than a year ago -- appeared to signal a new American approach. The White House has resisted one-on-one talks with the North Koreans, except for rare and brief asides on the edges of larger negotiating sessions. President Bush has insisted that Japan, China, South Korea and Russia all participate so that North Korea must confront its biggest neighbors at once. 
 That strategy has resulted in a stalemate, however, and the North refused for 13 months to re-engage at all. Meanwhile, American intelligence agencies, while divided on the question of North Korea's exact capabilities, have warned Congress and the other countries in the talks that the North has probably exploited the delay to expand its arsenal considerably and that it might now possess enough fuel to make more than half a dozen nuclear weapons. 
 Those estimates have given the talks here a far greater sense of urgency -- and it has prompted some administration officials to warn that they are prepared to advocate moving to ''Plan B'' -- even more severe economic penalties -- if the talks go nowhere.
 In Washington, American officials said Mr. Hill and his small team of negotiators were prepared to stay in Beijing for weeks, if necessary, to put together the beginnings of some kind of nuclear deal. 
 ''We're determined to make sure it's different this time,'' said one senior administration official who has been deeply involved in the development of the new strategy but who insisted on anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks. ''We want to force the North Koreans to make a choice: either to show that they are serious, or to make clear to everyone else that they are fundamentally not prepared to give up their weapons.''
 Mr. Hill, who helped negotiate the Dayton accord during the Balkan wars in the 1990's, took care to avoid describing his session with the North Koreans as a negotiating session. 
 ''We are just going to get acquainted and sort of review how we see things coming up, and compare notes,'' Mr. Hill told reporters hours before the North Korea meeting. ''We are looking forward to working very hard and trying to make some progress,'' he added, according to an official transcript of his comments.
 The three sets of previous talks have lasted three or four days each, sometimes ending in threats from North Korea to conduct a nuclear test or warnings from the United States that a nuclear North will not be ''tolerated.'' But after several years of stalemate, the pressure for results has dramatically increased. 
 In recent months, the United States, South Korea and China have taken steps to persuade the North Koreans to return to negotiations. President Bush has toned down his comments about North Korea's president, Kim Jong Il, whom he called a ''tyrant'' in the spring. More recently, he referred to him as ''Mr. Kim.'' The United States has also reiterated its promise not to attack North Korea, and reaffirmed that it considers the country a ''sovereign state.'' 
 ''The United States has made a big contribution,'' said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at People's University in Beijing.
 Meanwhile, the Chinese have bolstered trade with North Korea, providing it with food and fuel, and South Korea has announced a proposal to deliver electric power to the North -- if it cooperates in the negotiations.
 On Sunday, South and North Korean officials meeting in Beijing agreed to broad, if unspecified, principles on removing nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula.
 The success or failure of the talks is also expected to color relations between the United States and China, which is the host for the talks, at a time when the Chinese leader, Hu Jintao, is preparing for his first visit to America in September. Earlier in the year, China criticized the United States for being too inflexible toward North Korea, while the Bush administration called on China to apply greater pressure to force the North Koreans back to the table. Failure in these talks could deeply sour the relationship.
 ''China thinks that if nothing happens, the United States will go to a harder line,'' Mr. Shi said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Jim Yardley; David E Sanger; Christopher R (Amb) Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) North Korea; China; Russia; South Korea; Japan; Beijing (China)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



500 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Ambitions Are Fueling a Division of Labor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 25 

 BODY:
The huge split in organized labor has been fueled by stagnant living standards for many workers, by the ascendancy of the service sector and by labor's lack of success in politics and unionizing workers. But as much as anything, the schism reflects the conflicting ambitions of two titans of labor, John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and his onetime protege, Andrew L. Stern, the president of the Service Employees International Union, until now the largest union in the labor federation.
 The split was sealed on Monday when Mr. Stern and James P. Hoffa, president of the Teamsters, announced that they were pulling their two unions out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., just as the federation was beginning its 50th anniversary convention here.
Mr. Stern, 54, who is known for his eloquence, drive and impatience, had for months been pushing his membership, and the leaders and members of other unions, to break away, in a move he insists is needed to reinvigorate labor. 
 Deepening the rift, two other major unions, the United Food and Commercial Workers and Unite Here, which represents apparel, hotel and restaurant employees, are boycotting the convention and have indicated that they would also leave.
 ''We are in the midst of the most significant and profound transformative moment in economic history, and workers are suffering,'' Mr. Stern said at a news conference. ''Our goal is not to divide the labor movement, but to rebuild it so working people can once again achieve the American dream.''
 Mr. Sweeney and Mr. Stern both say their overarching goal is to lift American workers, but they have different visions on how to get there. Mr. Sweeney, 71, has led the federation for a decade and prefers to work by consensus, nudging the federation's unions to do more organizing. But many have dragged their feet, and Mr. Sweeney says federation rules bar him from punishing them. For him, cooperation and solidarity are paramount. 
 Mr. Stern, on the other hand, wants far more aggressive recruitment efforts and the ability to crack down on labor leaders who fall short of organizing goals. Mr. Stern and his allies have called for rebating half the federation's budget to individual unions to spur organizing, but Mr. Sweeney protests that such a move would cripple the federation's efforts in political campaigns, job safety and other areas. 
 While Mr. Stern and his allies say their walkout is based on fundamental principles about what is the best course to help American workers and unions, their move has generated huge resentment and anger among other labor leaders. While Mr. Stern says he is charting a much-needed, more aggressive course for labor, other union leaders accuse him of a power grab and fault him for repeatedly rejecting Mr. Sweeney's offers of compromise.
 ''It is a grievous insult to all the unions that helped us,'' Mr. Sweeney said in his keynote speech to the convention. ''But most of all, it is a tragedy for working people. Because at a time when our corporate and conservative adversaries have created the most powerful antiworker political machine in the history of our country, a divided movement hurts the hopes of working families for a better life.''
 Then, in a statement that won rousing applause and that many union leaders said was directed at Mr. Stern in particular, Mr. Sweeney said: ''And that makes me very angry. The labor movement belongs to all of us, every worker, and our future should not be dictated by the demands of any groups or the ambitions of any individual.''
 The pullout by the two giant unions is a major blow to the federation, which until Monday had 56 unions and 13 million members. The departure of the Service Employees International Union, with 1.8 million members, and the Teamsters, with 1.4 million, takes away about one-fourth of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. membership. Those members paid about $20 million a year in dues, representing one-sixth of the federation's budget.
 Standing alongside Mr. Stern at a news conference, Mr. Hoffa seemed to share his impatience. ''What was done at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was not working,'' he said. ''We're going to do something new. That is our message.''
 The service employees' departure is a particular slap at Mr. Sweeney because it is a union that he headed before becoming the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president.
 In recent months, Mr. Stern has voiced impatience that the labor federation and other unions have had so little success in recruiting members, while his union has jumped to 1.1 million members, from 900,000 a decade ago. That reflects the rapid growth in the service sector, for instance among janitors and nursing home aides, and also reflects the successful unionization tactics of his union. 
 Many union leaders agree that Mr. Stern has been emboldened to go his own way because of the service employees' singular success in organizing and because of the explosion in the service sector.
 At the news conference, Mr. Stern said, ''Today, S.E.I.U. is respectfully making its own choice to go in a different direction that we believe will work for working people.''
 Many labor leaders have openly said that they attribute Mr. Stern's departure to arrogance, to a ''my way or the highway'' approach and to a desire to head a new power bloc.
 ''This is not about change,'' said Leo Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America. ''This is not about creating better lives for our children or grandchildren. This is nothing but a disguised power grab. They should be ashamed of it.''
 Officials involved in the negotiations that sought to prevent a schism said some union presidents so disliked Mr. Stern that they had pressured Mr. Sweeney not to grant meaningful compromises to him.
 At the same time, Mr. Hoffa and Joe Hansen, the president of the food and commercial workers' union, said Mr. Sweeney had shown far too little willingness to make compromises to prevent unions from quitting the federation. 
 One issue that separates the sides is how much of the federation's money is spent on recruiting workers. Mr. Hoffa often asserted that the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s leaders were spending too much on politics and not enough on organizing. 
 ''They dramatically increased the amount of money to throw at politicians,'' Mr. Hoffa said on Monday. 
 But Mr. Sweeney and his allies argued that it was important for unions to spend generously to elect politicians who might help create a climate favorable to unions and union organizing.
 Even as Mr. Stern and Mr. Hoffa seceded, they adopted some conciliatory language, saying their unions would not raid other unions to try to recruit workers. And with many Democrats and union officials worrying that the schism in labor would weaken labor's effectiveness politically, Mr. Stern said he hoped to continue cooperating with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. on politics. Among Democrats, there is considerable fear that the labor split will undercut the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s role as a highly effective coordinator for the nation's unions in lobbying and political campaigns.
 ''There's a lot of anxiety any time one of your principal allies is split, especially given the amount of resources that the other side has amassed against us,'' said David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant. ''The White House, the Republican Party, would like nothing better than to put labor out of business as a political force.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page news analysis article on Tuesday about a decision by the Teamsters and the Service Employees International Union to leave the A.F.L.-C.I.O. misstated the 10-year growth in the service union. Membership has risen to 1.8 million from 1.1 million -- not to 1.1 million from 900,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of organized labor showed their support for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. yesterday in Chicago as it opened its convention in that city. (Photo by Tannen Maury/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (95%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BOYCOTTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); BUDGETS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%) Labor; Organized Labor; Labor; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); UNITE HERE (82%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Service Employees International Union; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; Unite Here (Labor Union)

PERSON: John J Sweeney; Andrew L Stern; James P Hoffa; Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



501 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: For These Bonds, Security Requires Some Volatility

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
HOPE springs eternal for investors in convertible securities.
 After big losses earlier this year, convertible bonds -- which can be converted into a company's stock -- have rallied. That has some fund managers declaring that the worst is over and arguing that the market represents a buying opportunity. Other investors warn that convertibles remain overpriced, despite this year's losses. 
 ''There are pockets of opportunity, but the market is not overwhelmingly cheap,'' said Mark Hudoff, who oversees about $20 billion in high-yield bond investments for Pimco, including $250 million in convertible debt. He is cautious because convertibles depend on market volatility to produce a good return, and volatility in stock prices is near a 10-year low. 
 Companies issue convertible securities -- mostly in the form of bonds but sometimes as preferred stock -- as a relatively cheap way to raise money. They have traditionally been seen as a safer alternative to stocks, because investors receive fixed interest payments as well as the option to convert their securities to common stock at a set price. 
 In recent years, the $276 billion convertible securities market in the United States has been flooded by hedge funds, which have accounted for more than three quarters of daily trading. Hedge fund managers have sought to capture market inefficiencies by buying a company's convertible bonds and shorting its common stock -- thereby locking in gains.
 This year hedge funds focused on convertible securities have had losses ranging from 2 percent to more than 18 percent, according to estimates last month by Goldman Sachs, and investors have withdrawn billions of dollars from hedge funds specializing in convertible securities. Several hedge funds have announced they are shutting down, citing a lack of opportunities.
 Returns have rebounded since mid-May, when convertible securities were down 7.5 percent for the year. As of mid-July, a Lehman Brothers United States convertible index was down 0.7 percent. That has led some hedge fund managers to proclaim a market bottom. 
 ''Many of our investors have asked us whether the best years for convertible arbitrage are behind us,'' George M. Douglas, chief investment officer of SSI Investment Management, a $1.3 billion hedge fund manager, wrote in a May letter to investors. ''Our response is absolutely not!'' 
 In a recent letter to investors, John Burke, managing partner of Navesink Investment Partners, wrote that convertible securities ''will be the best performing hedge fund strategy for the next 12 months.'' 
 Mr. Burke, whose funds were down 5.5 percent through June, said in his letter that so much money had been redeemed from convertible hedge funds that the securities should trade at more attractive levels. 
 But Mr. Hudoff and other skeptics said the same factors that led convertible prices to tumble beginning last summer still posed a threat to performance -- the lack of market volatility, for one.
 Investors can hedge investments ''so that they don't care about the direction of the stock; all they want to see is volatility,'' Mr. Hudoff said.
 An index of future stock volatility maintained by the Chicago Board Options Exchange expects an 11.1 percent change in stock prices, nearly half the rate of volatility expected a year ago.
 Mr. Hudoff said it was possible that volatility could stay low for some time. For example, when expectations for volatility reached similar levels in 1993, the index stayed near 10 percent for more than two years. 
 Bulls on convertible securities are betting that stock volatility will increase.
 ''We don't think the current levels of volatility are sustainable,'' said Nick Calamos, chief investment officer at Calamos Investments, an investment firm that started one of the first funds devoted to convertible debt in 1985.
 If investors grow more pessimistic about the economy, that would cause stocks to be more volatile as the outlook for earnings becomes cloudy, Mr. Calamos said. For example, China's decision to let its currency float against the dollar could ultimately make the outlook less certain for companies that derive a significant share of their profits overseas.
 Rising interest rates could also lead to greater volatility, Mr. Douglas of SSI Investment said in his investor letter.
 Mr. Calamos said he was finding lots of bargains, including Ford's $5 billion in convertible preferred shares, which are yielding 8 percent, twice the dividend yield on the stock.
 The Calamos Convertible Fund, which is closed to new investment, is down 0.15 percent this year. But Mr. Calamos is undeterred.
 ''We invest with a two-year horizon,'' he said. Another fund that is open to new investors, Calamos Growth and Income, which has in the past invested nearly two-thirds of its assets in convertibles, is up 2.43 percent this year.
 But even as investors like Mr. Calamos hunt for bargains, they are finding less to choose from, as the size of the convertible bond market continues to shrink. 
 So far this year, companies raised just $15.4 billion in convertible securities, down from $45.4 billion for all of 2004, according to Thomson Financial. At the same time, redemptions by companies contributed to an overall decline of more than $15 billion in the size of the market, according to Lehman Brothers.
 Perhaps the biggest short-term threat to the convertible market is the potential for investors to pull more money from hedge funds specializing in the convertibles. These funds, which had $45 billion in capital at the end of last year, according to Hedge Fund Research, lost nearly a quarter of their assets as of June, based on estimates from Goldman Sachs.
 Some investors in hedge funds are gingerly adding to their holdings in convertible funds. But many said they were waiting to see if there would be another wave of redemptions by investors in convertible securities hedge funds before substantially increasing their allocations. 
 Some hedge funds place limits on how much can be redeemed in any given period. That means additional capital could leave the market at the end of the third quarter, investors in hedge funds said.
 ''September could be the next big shoe left to drop,'' said Virginia Reynolds Parker, president of Parker Global Strategies, who oversees hedge fund investments on behalf of insurance companies, banks and other institutions. She began withdrawing her clients' money out of convertible bond hedge funds two years ago, and remains cautious.
 ''Convertibles may be cheap, but there is a chance they will get cheaper still,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); SSI INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

PERSON: Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



502 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Critics Call for Boycott Of Memorial Fund-Raising

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
In the ever fiercer fight over a year-old plan to build a home for the Drawing Center and the International Freedom Center alongside the World Trade Center memorial, some relatives of 9/11 victims called yesterday for a fund-raising boycott.
 ''We urge you to not donate to the World Trade Center memorial until the I.F.C. and the Drawing Center are eliminated from the memorial plans,'' said ''An Open Letter to the American People.'' The letter appeared on a Web site, Take Back the Memorial, until questions arose over how many of the 14 relatives' groups that were signed to the letter had approved the use of their names.
Despite that withdrawal, critics of the cultural plan -- including two members of the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation, which is charged with soliciting contributions -- said the freedom center had to be removed before they would support the use of public money for the overall project. Opponents have objected in advance to what they say will be an anti-American bias to the center's offerings, a charge that the center has just as strongly rejected. 
 ''We owe it to the American people or anyone else who wants to donate to tell them what they're paying for and not mislead them,'' said Debra Burlingame, a foundation board member and one of the letter's authors. She said financing for the memorial would be intermingled with that for the building at Fulton and Greenwich Streets that is intended to house the International Freedom Center and the Drawing Center.
 The assertion was disputed by Lynn Rasic, the vice president for public affairs at the foundation. ''The first fund-raising efforts are devoted to the memorial and the museum dedicated to Sept. 11,'' she said.
 ''It's unfortunate and wrong to block efforts to make sure that our nation and the world remember those we lost during the attacks,'' Ms. Rasic said.
 Asked whether it was a conflict of interest for board members to urge prospective donors to withhold support, Ms. Rasic said any potential conflicts would be reviewed by the governance committee.
 Monica Iken, a board member and the founder of September's Mission, which supports the development of a memorial, said she had not approved the use of her group's name on the letter. ''I never signed off on anything like that,'' she said yesterday.
 ''I have an obligation to fund-raise for the memorial,'' she added.
 But Ms. Burlingame said her objections were in line with her fiduciary responsibilities as a board member. ''You can't go out to the public and say, 'We're raising $500 million,' and not tell them they're building on the same site a building so large it will dwarf the memorial,'' she said.
 Lee Ielpi, another member of the foundation board, is also vice president of the September 11th Families Association, which was listed as supporting the open letter.
 ''I'm fully comfortable asking Americans who shared our sorrow and came to help us in the worst of times to help us honor our dead and the sacrifice they made,'' he said. ''I am not comfortable asking them to play a role in a political, economic or ideological passion play whose ending has yet to be written. I believe the freedom center is a bad idea.''
 Robert D. Shurbet, the founder of Take Back the Memorial (takebackthememorial.org), said that the open letter was a draft that had been ''posted prematurely'' and that the link to it was removed ''pending final approval'' by the relatives' groups.
 As to the larger issue of the cultural organizations, Stefan Pryor, the president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said officials were having ''continuing conversations with the two institutions regarding their response'' to concerns raised by Gov. George E. Pataki. On June 24, the governor asked for an ''absolute guarantee'' that programs on the site not denigrate America or offend victims' families.
 Eric Foner, the DeWitt Clinton professor of history at Columbia University, resigned from the freedom center's committee of scholars and advisers this month, after a letter from the center to Mr. Pryor that tried to address those concerns. News of his resignation was reported on Saturday in The New York Post.
 Alternative locations for the Drawing Center on and off the trade center site are already being explored.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The proposed cultural center, behind the reflecting pool on the left at the World Trade Center memorial site, is the focus of a fierce dispute. (Photo by Lower Manhattan Development Corporation via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); APPROVALS (74%); HIJACKING (66%) Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Area Planning and Renewal; Art; Boycotts; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: International Freedom Center; Drawing Center (NYC)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



503 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 441 words

PERSON: Glynn Ross

HEADLINE: Glynn Ross, 90, Put Seattle On the Map for Opera Lovers

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Glynn Ross, the founding general director of Seattle Opera, who established the company's tradition of performing Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, died on Thursday in Tucson. He was 90 and lived in Tucson and Seattle.
 The cause was complications of a stroke, the opera company announced. 
An enthusiastic and inventive promoter in a region with little history of opera, Mr. Ross was as well known for his adventurous productions as for his novel and unpretentious marketing schemes. He walked the streets with a Valkyrie and a giant, hired skywriters and made bumper stickers that said ''Get ahead with 'Salome.'''
 ''He was a huckster,'' said Speight Jenkins, Mr. Ross's successor at the company. ''He had the wildest ideas in the world to sell opera.''
 The ideas worked. Founded in 1963, Seattle Opera began to attract national attention by the end of the decade with a five-opera season and an operating budget of $1 million, raised during a recession in Seattle.
 But Mr. Ross, who since 1940 had staged operas in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia and elsewhere, had long wanted to present Wagner's ''Ring des Nibelungen,'' a daunting task even for an established company.
 Seattle Opera presented its first ''Ring'' in 1975 in the six-day cycle prescribed by Wagner. It had two casts, one singing in German, the other in English translation. The staging was naturalistic and simple, as much because of the limited budget as because of Mr. Ross's distaste for the high-modernist stagings that had become the norm in Bayreuth.
 Mr. Ross was born in Omaha to Scandinavian immigrant parents. He studied to be an actor in Boston and served in the Army during World War II. While stationed in Naples, he met his wife, Gio, and worked as a stage director at the Teatro San Carlo, becoming the first American to direct in a major Italian opera house. 
 At Seattle Opera, he also presented the Who's ''Tommy,'' and the premieres of Thomas Pasatieri's ''Black Widow'' and Carlisle Floyd's ''Of Mice and Men.''
 He left the company in 1983 and moved to another region considered an opera frontier: Arizona, where he mounted two ''Ring'' cycles. He was also one of the founders of Opera America, a nonprofit group that assists opera companies.
 Besides his wife, he is survived by four children, Stephanie Rogers, of San Francisco; Claudia Ross-Kuhn, of Seattle; Tony Ross, of Des Moines; and Melanie Ross, of Seattle, the company manager of Seattle Opera; and seven grandchildren.
 Seattle Opera mounted the ''Ring'' cycle each summer from 1975 to 1984, and has done it less frequently -- but with bigger productions -- since Mr. Jenkins took over in 1984.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Glynn Ross in 2003 (Photo by Rozarii Lynch/Seattle Opera, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); OPERA (92%); DEATHS (90%); BUDGETS (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Opera; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Seattle Opera

Ben Sisario; Richard (1813-83) Wagner

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



504 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Stop In Kyrgyzstan Aims to Keep Access to Base

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, July 25 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld arrived in this Central Asian nation on Monday to shore up an unsettled military basing arrangement that has been critical to operations in Afghanistan. 
 The refueling and cargo mission operated by the American military from Manas Air Base, just outside Bishkek, the capital, has been an essential link in the supply chain for moving aid to civilians, troops and equipment into and out of Afghanistan. About 1,000 American troops operate from the airfield, which is the base for nine KC-135 refueling jets and C-130 cargo planes.
 But the arrangement appeared to be in jeopardy early this month when Kyrgyzstan and three other Central Asian states joined Russia and China in calling for the United States to set a deadline for withdrawing from the base here and one in neighboring Uzbekistan. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters traveling with him here from Washington that the status of the bases was a matter for negotiations with the host countries, not the regional alliance, which is known as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and is dominated by Russia and China. 
 ''We have good arrangements in this part of the world with respect to basing and overflight rights,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, referring to other regional states, like Tajikistan. ''They have been a great help to Afghanistan and a great help to the global war on terror.'' 
 Ten days ago, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was even blunter in his assessment of the alliance's demand, ''It looks to me like two very large countries were trying to bully some smaller countries.'' 
 The fate of the Manas base is especially important given the growing tensions between the United States and Uzbekistan since late May, when Uzbek security forces used gunfire to put down an uprising and antigovernment demonstration in Andijon in the northeast. Many Western governments and organizations have urged Uzbekistan to allow a credible international inquiry into the uprising and crackdown, but President Islam A. Karimov has refused. 
 Speaking at the start of a three-day trip to Central Asia and other countries, Mr. Rumsfeld said the United States and Uzbekistan had had a good basing arrangement and that he was not using the visit to shop for alternatives. ''We're not at that point,'' he said. 
 But a senior Air Force officer familiar with operations in the region, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because planning is still in its preliminary stages, said that the military's Central Command was already examining ''work-arounds,'' military parlance for alternatives, in case the Pentagon was forced to leave the Uzbek base. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Rumsfeld will meet here with President-elect Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, a former opposition leader who won a landslide victory in elections on July 10 that international observers generally praised for their openness and democratic integrity. 
 A Defense Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid upstaging his boss before the meetings, said Mr. Rumsfeld would brief Mr. Bakiyev and other top Kyrgyz officials on American operations in Afghanistan, the security outlook there and what that would mean for American requirements for access into and out of the region. 
 During his campaign, Mr. Bakiyev repeated the Shanghai alliance's demand for a deadline for the Americans' departure. But since the election, some of Mr. Bakiyev's aides and other Kyrgyz officials have softened that position, in what some regional analysts say could be a canny effort to balance the government's foreign policy with Russia, China and the United States. 
 ''We have to ensure that our security and economic interests are protected,'' Kyrgyzstan's Security Council secretary, Miroslav Niyazov, said this month, citing the government's intention to ''do its best to avoid spoiling relations with Washington.'' 
 The Pentagon is providing about $10 million this year alone in military aid to Kyrgyzstan, a mountainous, landlocked country of five million people. 
 Regional security analysts say that Mr. Rumsfeld's visit will succeed if the two countries can come up with a rationale that gives the Kyrgyz public political cover for continuing operations at the base. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld visited Kyrgyzstan in April, just weeks after the so-called Tulip Revolution ousted President Askar Akayev, who fled the country. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, left, was met yesterday at Manas Air Base by Stephen M. Young, the ambassador to Kyrgyzstan. (Pool photograph by Joe Raedke )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR FORCES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TERRORISM (65%); RELIGION (50%) Military Bases and Installations; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (82%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%) Shanghai Cooperation Organization

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (58%) Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); UZBEKISTAN (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TAJIKISTAN (79%) Afghanistan; Kyrgyzstan; Russia; China; Afghanistan; Uzbekistan

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



505 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: How Decorative Arts Evolved and Became a Social Movement

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
The Arts and Crafts movement, which began boiling up in the indefatigable William Morris in England in the 1860's, was one of those great switching stations of thought built during the Victorian Era and commensurate in its way with Darwinism, Marxism and photography. 
 As suggested by ''The Arts and Crafts Movement in Europe and America,'' an epic exhibition at the Milwaukee Art Museum, the switching station's inbound tracks included medieval art and the English Gothic Revival, country furniture, Sir Walter Scott's romances and the writings of Carlyle, plus Ruskin and Emerson and Morris's fury at the Industrial Revolution's harmful effects on design, craftsmanship, the environment and working conditions. ''Shoddy is king,'' Morris famously said. The feeling ignited his do-it-yourself instincts as a designer, craftsman, social reformer and businessman, amply supported by, in all senses, the confidence and cash flow of a well-educated Englishman of means. 
The outbound tracks lead to, or pass close by, most of modern design as we know it, in terms of movements, principles, dissenting geniuses and home furnishing stores. In other words: Art Nouveau, Wiener Werkstatte, Art Deco, de Stijl and Bauhaus; as well as ''truth to materials,'' ''unity in design,'' design as social reform and the private (read middle-class) house. Also Frank Lloyd Wright, Ray and Charles Eames, George Nelson, Donald Judd and the anticapitalist, back-to-nature ethos of the counterculture, as well as Design Research, the Door Store, Ikea, Pottery Barn, West Elm and Design Within Reach.
 Arguing for handcraft, social responsibility and the equality between the fine and applied arts, Morris's back-to-the-workshop movement changed the way design was seen in the West while reflecting larger changes like the rise of the middle class, nationalism, industrialization and individual rights. It proposed a holistic, in many ways utopian vision; it declared the ultimate obligation of design to be quality of life, and that worker and consumer alike were entitled to its benefits. 
 Much of the movement's scope, vitality and its crusading, often pious optimism is evident in the Milwaukee show, which originated in December at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, where it was organized by Wendy Kaplan, curator of the decorative arts department. Concentrating on the heyday of the Arts and Crafts from 1890 to 1910, it is the first major show to parse the movement's impact on an international scale. At Milwaukee, it flows through 14 galleries whose relatively low ceilings create a fittingly domestic atmosphere. It encompasses more than 300 objects by scores of designers, craftsmen and architects whose names are variously famous, unknown and unexpected.
 Furniture dominates; veritable mini-exhibitions mull over chairness and buffetness or present self-contained worlds like the entire dining room, from carpet to stemware, designed by Peter Behrens, the movement's German exemplar. A bulky humbleness prevails, along with glowing wood tones, restrained techniques and understated touches of exotic materials like mother-of-pearl or inlaid silver. Josef Hoffmann's tea service in hammered silver is softly luminous, not shiny. One of the show's loudest moments is George Washington Maher's glass mosaic fire surround in hot pink and turquoise; one of its least familiar is Gustav Serrurier-Bovy's almost spectral grandfather clock, which pushes Arts and Crafts toward Art Nouveau. 
 When natural materials aren't in the foreground, plant and flower forms are, in jewelry, ceramics, textiles, stained glass and graphic design, on bookbindings. The movement's best-known motifs are the widely imitated plant patterns derived from Gothic and Persian precedents to be found in Morris & Co. tapestries (for which Morris resurrected the vegetable dye process) and wall paper (printed by hand).
 The show devotes generous space to the movement's English origins and its enthusiastic reception in America, where Wright (its first proselytizer), Gustav Stickley and the brothers Henry Mather Greene and Charles Sumner Greene devised some of its most complete and exalted expressions. Special attention is paid the work of the lavishly initialed second English generation -- C.R. Ashbee, C.F.A. Voysey and M.H. Baillie Scott -- who all helped to spread the Arts and Crafts gospel, often by designing houses that were then furnished by Morris & Co.
 But the exhibition is most exciting when covering the diverse efforts of true believers, momentary acolytes and fellow travelers from Scotland, Austria, Germany, Belgium, Hungary, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark. (The wide angle approach may signal a trend: a similar show, ''International Arts and Crafts,'' opened at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London in March, and will travel soon to Indianapolis and San Francisco.) 
 More a set of principles than a visual style, Arts and Crafts traveled well, adapting to individual talents, indigenous craft traditions and differing attitudes toward mechanization. Its back-to-basics sense of form -- relatively unembellished by Victorian standards -- could bring clarity to mechanical production while retaining a bit of that human touch. The Germans, with a newly unified country that needed to develop a national economy, proved to be excellent at this, opening the way for the Bauhaus. At the same time, the Arts and Crafts emphasis on handcraft encouraged a return to folk traditions and a new consciousness of national identity in relatively unindustrialized regions. Evidence includes the Viking revival metalwork from Norway and, from Finland, a buffet carved with mountains and forests by Valter Jung, and a similarly expressive chair by Eliel Saarinen.
 This exhibition may initially seem like an especially long version of the exercises in ostentatious materialism at which today's museums too often excel. You know, the shopping that is not shopping, until, of course, you get to the gift shop at the show's close. But it soon becomes obvious that the show is the design equivalent of a survey of abstract painting from, say, 1910 to 1930 instead of 1890 to 1910 (modernism struck design, then art). And just as modernist painting was galvanized by the potential and challenge of abstraction, so Arts and Crafts gained its chief inspiration from something nearly as new and radical: the private, nonaristocratic home as a place of respite, enjoyment and freedom. 
 Milwaukee's commodious show is enlivened by the debates like those that pervaded early abstraction between the geometric and the organic or the rustic and the cosmopolitan. It shares a similar longing for some mystical reconnection with nature, religion, folk art and different innocence myths (the child, the primitive, the female). And it is full of startling signs of things to come. Peter Behrens's aluminum and gilt bronze doors for his house in Darmstadt, Germany, from 1901, with their raised geometric sunburst motif, could easily be in the lobby of the Chrysler Building. Also from 1901, an elm settee with a cane seat by Hans Vollmer, a Viennese designer, is so plain as to be 1950's Danish Modern.
 Arts and Crafts established in a broad way that, as Freud might have said, a chair is rarely just a chair. Perhaps even more than art, design objects are philosophy in physical form. They must reconcile reality and aesthetics, which means they inevitably encapsulate a designer's views on manufacture, materials, beauty, function, the human body and more. This imposing thought-filled exhibition celebrates the first recognition of design's complex place in the weave of modern life.

''The Arts and Crafts Movement in Europe and America'' is at the Milwaukee Art Museum, 700 North Art Museum Drive, Milwaukee, through Sept. 5; (414)224-3200.


GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 300 objects are included in the Milwaukee Art Museum's Arts and Crafts exhibition. Items featured include, clockwise from the top, a fireplace surround designed by George Washington Maher
Gustav Serrurier-Bovy's clock
and a silver tea service by Josef Hoffmann. (Photos by Above, Museum Associates/Los Angeles County Museum of Art
below left, Metropolitan Museum of Art
 below, Royal Museums of Art and History)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%) Design; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%) Milwaukee Art Museum

PERSON: Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (96%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



506 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Xerox Misses an Estimate, And Major Indexes Falter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday as Xerox reported second-quarter profit that trailed analysts' estimates and as oil prices increased.
 Benchmark indexes extended their slide as bond yields reached their highest level since May. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which last week reached a four-year high, failed to hold early gains spurred by a report that showed record sales of existing homes. 
 The S.&P. 500 was down 4.65 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,229.03 after adding as much as 0.4 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 54.70 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,596.48. The Nasdaq composite index slid 13 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,166.74, for its biggest decline in a month.
 Seven stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.3 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 10 percent less than the three-month daily average.
 Of the 209 companies in the S.&P. 500 that have reported quarterly results, 87 percent have met or beat expectations, according to Thomson Financial estimates.
 Xerox did not follow that trend. Excluding a tax gain, profit would have been 20 cents a share, the company said yesterday. On that basis, Xerox had been expected to earn 23 cents. The company also said profit this quarter would be less than forecast. The shares slid 85 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $13.20, for the worst performance in the S.&P. 500. 
 Crude oil for September delivery added 35 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $59 a barrel in New York, on speculation that fuel consumption will increase in coming months because of economic growth in the United States and China.
 Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose to 4.25 percent, from 4.22 percent on Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, fell 7/32 to 991/32. 
 ''The bond market and the stock market are fairly correlative,'' said Scott Jacobson, chief investment strategist for Jefferies & Company in New York. ''Until we get economic data and some change in earnings that is really significant,'' he said, it would be difficult to push stocks higher because of concerns about inflation and terrorism.
 The advance in bond yields weighed on the stock of homebuilders like KB Home, amid concern that higher mortgage rates would crimp demand for housing. KB Home, the sixth-largest homebuilder by market value, slid $3.45 to $80.
 KB Home's decline came even after a report by the National Association of Realtors showed that sales of previously owned homes advanced in June to a record annual rate of 7.33 million. Some economists had expected a 7.15 million rate.
 Takeover news from Ivax and Maytag helped keep benchmark indexes from falling further. Ivax, the nation's largest maker of generic drugs, jumped $2.29, to $25.17. Its larger rival, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, based in Israel, agreed to buy the company for $7.4 billion. Teva shares added 7 cents, to $31.23.
 Maytag rose 80 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $17. The company is weighing a sweetened $1.44 billion offer from Whirlpool. They will begin talks based on Whirlpool's $18-a-share bid, Maytag said. Maytag had rejected Whirlpool's offer of $17 a share in cash and stock.
 Whirlpool rallied $5.50, or 7.1 percent, to $82.68 for the S.&P. 500's best performance.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three-and six-month Treasury bills:

 High rate at weekly auction.

GRAPHIC: Graph: tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); KB HOME CORP (51%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); KBH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



507 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; BOMBINGS IN LONDN: HEARTS AND MINDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: New Name for 'War on Terror' Reflects Wider U.S. Campaign

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is retooling its slogan for the fight against Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, pushing the idea that the long-term struggle is as much an ideological battle as a military mission, senior administration and military officials said Monday. 
 In recent speeches and news conferences, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the nation's senior military officer have spoken of ''a global struggle against violent extremism'' rather than ''the global war on terror,'' which had been the catchphrase of choice. Administration officials say that phrase may have outlived its usefulness, because it focused attention solely, and incorrectly, on the military campaign.
Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the National Press Club on Monday that he had ''objected to the use of the term 'war on terrorism' before, because if you call it a war, then you think of people in uniform as being the solution.'' He said the threat instead should be defined as violent extremists, with the recognition that ''terror is the method they use.'' 
 Although the military is heavily engaged in the mission now, he said, future efforts require ''all instruments of our national power, all instruments of the international communities' national power.'' The solution is ''more diplomatic, more economic, more political than it is military,'' he concluded. 
 Administration and Pentagon officials say the revamped campaign has grown out of meetings of President Bush's senior national security advisers that began in January, and it reflects the evolution in Mr. Bush's own thinking nearly four years after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Mr. Rumsfeld spoke in the new terms on Friday when he addressed an audience in Annapolis, Md., for the retirement ceremony of Adm. Vern Clark as chief of naval operations. Mr. Rumsfeld described America's efforts as it ''wages the global struggle against the enemies of freedom, the enemies of civilization.''
 The shifting language is one of the most public changes in the administration's strategy to battle Al Qaeda and its affiliates, and it tracks closely with Mr. Bush's recent speeches emphasizing freedom, democracy and the worldwide clash of ideas.
 ''It is more than just a military war on terror,'' Steven J. Hadley, the national security adviser, said in a telephone interview. ''It's broader than that. It's a global struggle against extremism. We need to dispute both the gloomy vision and offer a positive alternative.'' 
 The language shifts also come at a time when Mr. Bush, with a new appointment for one of his most trusted aides, Karen Hughes, is trying to bolster the State Department's efforts at public diplomacy. 
 Lawrence Di Rita, Mr. Rumsfeld's spokesman, said the shift in language ''is not a shift in thinking, but a continuation of the immediate post-9/11 approach.''
 ''The president then said we were going to use all the means of national power and influence to defeat this enemy,'' Mr. Di Rita said. ''We must continue to be more expansive than what the public is understandably focused on now: the military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq.''
 By emphasizing to the public that the effort is not only military, the administration may also be trying to reassure those in uniform who have begun complaining that only members of the armed forces are being asked to sacrifice for the effort.
 New opinion polls show that the American public is increasingly pessimistic about the mission in Iraq, with many doubting its link to the counterterrorism mission. So, a new emphasis on reminding the public of the broader, long-term threat to the United States may allow the administration to put into broader perspective the daily mayhem in Iraq and the American casualties.
 Douglas J. Feith, the under secretary of defense for policy, said in an interview that if the nation's efforts were limited to ''protecting the homeland and attacking and disrupting terrorist networks, you're on a treadmill that is likely to get faster and faster with time.'' The key to ''ultimately winning the war,'' he said, ''is addressing the ideological part of the war that deals with how the terrorists recruit and indoctrinate new terrorists.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NAVIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Public Opinion; United States International Relations

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Eric Schmitt; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (74%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



508 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Financial History Lessons For Europe's New Members 

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, July 25 

 BODY:
As the European Union strives to integrate new members from Eastern and Central Europe, it faces some of the same concerns raised 20 years ago with the admission of two less-developed states from the West: Spain and Portugal. 
 Letting in two poor countries that had recently shed repressive governments would stifle the union's economic growth, drain jobs from more developed members and send a wave of immigrants across the Pyrenees, critics said back then.
Those fears turned out to be exaggerated, in part because they underestimated the transforming effects of the European Union's investment. Richer members, principally Germany, provided strong financial support each year to help Spain and Portugal develop and catch up with the rest of the bloc. That money helped modernize roads, railways, airports and other infrastructure crucial to sustaining an advanced economy. 
 The European Union has already doled out $25 billion to its 10 new -- and slightly poorer -- members. Now, it is debating how much more aid to give these countries over the next few years, and the experiences of Spain and Portugal offer useful lessons on how to spend the money -- and how not to. There is widespread agreement among scholars in both countries that Spain has generally invested the funds more productively than has Portugal. 
 ''You can look at it from a number of angles, and you can see that the funds have stimulated the Spanish economy in effective ways,'' said Paul Isbell, an economics analyst at the Elcano Royal Institute of International and Strategic Studies, a nonpartisan research organization in Madrid. ''If you look at Portugal, you don't see the same beneficial effects.'' 
 In general, Spain received aid each year amounting to about 1 percent of its gross domestic product, a total tally of more than 90 billion euros, or $109 billion. And the benefits of the funds are evident in modern infrastructure, improvements in worker productivity, increases in per capita income and an expanding economy. The funds have also helped Spain soften the effects of some unpalatable structural changes, like liberalizing the labor market and privatizing state-owned industries. 
 By contrast, Portugal was getting roughly 3 percent of its gross domestic product each year, a total of about 50 billion euros. It, too, has mainly used the funds to expand the economy. But it did so without modernizing the economy to address its most protracted problems, like a growing budget deficit, a bloated public sector, rampant tax evasion and an inadequate educational system, scholars say. 
 ''Portuguese economists agree that the country has used the resources as a way to postpone the hard decisions,'' said Sebastian Royo, a professor of government at Suffolk University in Boston who has written extensively on the integration of Portugal and Spain into the union. 
 Now, Portugal's budget deficit is estimated at 6 percent to 7 percent of gross domestic product, government wages account for about 15 percent of G.D.P., and the country's level of educational attainment is among the lowest in Europe. 
 What's more, Portugal seems to have used European Union funds to make some of its problems worse. For example, it accelerated government hiring during boom times instead of freezing it. From 1995 to 2003, the number of workers on the public payroll increased by 22 percent, making one of every seven workers in Portugal a government employee who, under the constitution, cannot be fired.
 ''As the economy grew very fast, especially in the late 1990's, the public sector became a form of patronage,'' Mr. Royo said. 
 Still, Portugal has made great strides since joining the European Union in 1986. Before the union's expansion last year to 25 nations from 15, Portugal's per capita income had risen to 75 percent of the European Union's average, from 55 percent. 
 Over the same period, Spain's per capita income has increased to almost 90 percent of the average, from about 70 percent. The Spanish economy, meanwhile, is speeding into its 12th consecutive year of growth, while Portugal is mired in debt and struggling to pull out of a recession. 
 Although the spending of European Union funds is only one factor in these differing economic results, many specialists seem to agree that it is a significant one. 
 Both Portugal and Spain invested the majority of their development funds in the same area: infrastructure. Yet the results have been vastly different. 
 ''The infrastructure in Spain is nearly first-class,'' said Mr. Isbell, the economist at the Elcano Institute. 
 Spain's roads and railroads are not only modern but also well laid out, helping to connect poorer regions with more developed ones. 
 In Portugal, there is no comparable highway network linking its regions, increasing the chances that economic growth will remain uneven. Portugal has also failed to connect its highway systems to those in Spain, leaving it isolated from the main currents of European commerce. 
 ''In Europe, lots of goods are moved around by truck,'' Mr. Royo said. ''If you look at a map of Spain, the roads all go north. Portugal has not had the infrastructure linking it with Europe.'' 
 Portuguese infrastructure is not only poorly planned but in surprisingly poor condition, given the amount of money spent on it, scholars say. 
 ''In Spain, you can see the new highways, the airports, the nice roads,'' Mr. Royo said. 
 ''In Portugal, the infrastructure is not in good shape at all. You look around, and you say, 'Where is all this money going?''' 
 One possibility is that much of the money is finding its way into the pockets of government or industry officials, Mr. Royo contends. 
 ''Corruption has to be a part of it,'' he said. ''If you are spending all that money and the infrastructure is still poor, how else can you explain it?'' 
 Portuguese officials deny any corruption, but concede that the funds could have been better spent. 
 ''Portugal's administration of the funds perhaps has not been the most effective, but it has not been a corrupt one,'' said Crisostomo Teixeira, a senior policy adviser at the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications. 
 ''Portugal has made investments in small roads to improve mobility of people in small towns. If you do that, you don't have much money left for big, modern highway systems. The mayors of small towns here have pressed hard for roads in their areas. That is politics, not corruption.'' 
 The 10 new members of the European Union are not expected to receive nearly as much aid as Portugal and Spain. 
 But these two show that successful integration depends more on individual states than on Brussels. 
 ''It's not so much how much money you get,'' Mr. Royo said. ''It's how you spend it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); TAX FRAUD (61%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

PERSON: Renwick Mclean

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PYRENEES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; Spain; Germany; Portugal

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



509 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Still Rising To Records

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The nation's roaring housing market set its second record in three months as sales of existing homes climbed 2.7 percent in June, to 7.33 million, according to a report released yesterday.
 Low mortgage rates and strong demand drove the frenetic sales activity, which defied expectations that the market was starting to cool, at least in some of the hottest regions. The median price -- half the homes sold were more expensive, half were less expensive -- rose at nearly its highest annual pace in almost 25 years, 14.7 percent, to a record $219,000. It was just short of the April year-over-year advance of 15.1 percent. 
The average sales price climbed 9.4 percent, to $268,000.
 The report, from the National Association of Realtors, provides yet another sign that the housing market remains vibrant and is playing a big part in the nation's economic expansion. But it added to fears among some economists and policy makers that the boom might eventually turn into a bust in some locations. 
 The locations showing the greatest gains in prices were in the West, where the median price for the region was up 17.4 percent, and in the Northeast, where the median price rose 13.6 percent. The median price gains in the Midwest and the South were smaller, but still healthy: 12.7 percent for the Midwest and 9 percent in the South.
 Existing home sales for June broke a record set in April, when 7.18 million homes traded hands. Sales fell slightly in May, to 7.14 million. Analysts had been expecting 7.15 million sales in June.
 ''It's fairly astounding what is going on and with rates not moving up there is no sign of it ending anytime soon,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc., an economic research firm in New York. 
 Low mortgage rates have been driving the market for the last few years, prompting some economists to suggest the nation is experiencing a housing bubble that will eventually burst and deal the economy a significant setback. 
 Nationally, median prices are 40.2 percent higher than they were in 2002. In the West and the Northeast -- the regions with the greatest growth -- they are up 49.9 percent and 56 percent, respectively. The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage had a 5.73 percent rate last week, down from 5.98 percent a year ago, according to Freddie Mac. 
 The National Association of Realtors, which represents real estate agents, contends that low mortgage rates are one of several factors driving home sales. The others are an improving economy, strong housing demand and a supply shortage.
 ''Eventually, appreciation rates will slow and come down to normal levels when the shortage of homes on the market improves and comes closer into balance, hopefully, by the second half of next year,'' Al Mansell, the group's president, said in a statement.
 But economists who subscribe to the bubble view say that gradual easing may be wishful thinking.
 ''Those are hopes and it may be exactly what happens, but what we know is that the longer bubbles are allowed to go unchecked the more painful they are,'' said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
 The Federal Reserve has been raising short-term interest rates -- now at 3.25 percent -- to try to restrain economic growth and inflation. But those increases have had little impact on the long-term interest rates that drive the housing markets.
 Long-term rates have been kept low in part by demand for United States Treasury notes from Asian buyers, particularly the central banks of China, Japan and Korea, Mr. Roach said. Those countries are buying dollars to help keep their currencies relatively low compared to the dollar.
 China's decision last week to let its currency, the yuan, deviate from a fixed rate with the American dollar could eventually lead to higher long-term rates here, Mr. Roach said. 
 But for now, Asia's demand remains unchecked. ''That's playing a huge role in keeping this housing bubble going,'' Mr. Roach added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%) National Assn of Realtors

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



510 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEMO PAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 318 words

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
FREQUENT FLIERS' FAVORITES Business travelers overwhelmingly prefer using the major legacy carriers, but Southwest Airlines, the low-cost carrier, nevertheless ranks No. 3 on the list of Top 5 airlines, after Delta and American but before United And Northwest. That's according to the 2005 National Business Travel Monitor by YPB&R/Yankelovitch Partners. Top criteria for ranking an airline: on-time departure record (cited by 92 percent), in-flight service (91 percent), legroom (88 percent) and frequency of upgrades (72 percent).

NEW NICHE IN AIR TRAVEL JetBlue Airways is about to take initial delivery of a fleet of Embraer 190 jets, which seat 100 and are seen as occupying a niche between regional jets and full-size airliners. JetBlue is expected to begin flying eight of the Embraer 190's in November, augmenting its current fleet of 77 Airbus A320's, which each seat 156. The Embraer 190's are economical to operate and will enable JetBlue to serve smaller airports, Dave Barger, JetBlue's president and chief operating officer, said last week.

NIGHTS AWAY FROM HOME Thirty-five percent of 4,643 business travelers surveyed by Deloitte & Touche said they typically spent $126 or more a night for a hotel room, compared with 25 percent of vacationers who spent that much. Respondents said they spent more nights away from home traveling on business (15 a year on average) than on leisure (9.3 a year). More than half, however, said they took at least one trip last year that combined business and pleasure. The most important hotel amenities cited were size and comfort of room, deluxe bedding, easy-to-use in-room electronics and an onsite restaurant.

REBOUND IN BUSINESS TRAVEL In another sign of the revival in business-travel spending, the National Business Travel Association said that 405 exhibitors, a record, had registered for its convention and trade show in San Diego next month. JOE SHARKEY


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); RESTAURANTS (70%); HOTEL AMENITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TRADE SHOWS (61%) Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (93%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (86%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (67%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines Inc; Southwest Airlines; American Airlines Inc; United Airlines; Northwest Airlines; Embraer; Jetblue Airways 

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (93%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (93%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (86%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (86%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (86%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (67%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: DAVID BARGER (58%) Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



511 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Ambassador With Portfolio

BYLINE: By Flynt Leverett. 
Flynt Leverett, former senior director for Middle Eastern affairs at the National Security Council, is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy and is working on a book about the future of Saudi Arabia.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
LAST week's announcement that Prince Turki al-Faisal, former chief of Saudi intelligence and the current Saudi ambassador in London, will replace the long-serving Prince Bandar bin Sultan as ambassador in Washington provides the United States with an opening to restore its strategic partnership with Riyadh.
 Prince Turki's appointment will be difficult for some Americans. In his role as Saudi intelligence chief, he oversaw the kingdom's dangerous dance with Osama bin Laden, both during and after the campaign to drive the Soviets from Afghanistan. Indeed, in 2002, Prince Turki was named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed by families of Sept. 11 victims claiming that official Saudi negligence had facilitated Al Qaeda's operations (the portion of the suit naming Prince Turki was dismissed this year). 
Americans are understandably angry about the involvement of Saudis in the Sept. 11 attacks. But Prince Turki's coming to Washington actually offers the Bush administration a critical opportunity to make the war on terrorism more effective by refocusing efforts to shut down Al Qaeda's global and regional terrorist networks. 
 The recent terrorist attacks in London and Sharm el Sheik, Egypt, in which more than 100 people lost their lives, strongly suggest that Al Qaeda -- notwithstanding claims by some officials that it is ''finished'' -- can still orchestrate operations and generate mass casualties on multiple continents with impunity. After attacks in Egypt, Iraq, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Spain and Turkey over the past two years, the recent bombings should remind everyone that the war on terrorism remains, at its heart, a war on Al Qaeda. 
 There is probably no one, other than Osama bin Laden himself, who understands the Qaeda network better than Prince Turki. When I was with the Central Intelligence Agency, I saw how Prince Turki significantly improved the kingdom's intelligence capacities. Tapping his experience and influence will do more to elicit greater Saudi cooperation in dealing with immediate terrorist threats than asking London to clamp down on Islamist hate speech or hoping that, this time, Pakistan will finally get serious about going after Mr. bin Laden and his closest associates. 
 Prince Turki, brother to the Saudi foreign minister and a close ally of their uncle, the moderately reformist Crown Prince Abdullah, could also be an important channel for reinvigorating our larger strategic partnership. Not only does the war on terrorism demand our utmost efforts, but energy security is rapidly emerging alongside it as one of the key strategic challenges in the first quarter of the 21st century.
 Oil is at $60 a barrel, and demand from China and India is likely to drive prices even higher. Ensuring that competition for access to oil does not lead to global recession -- or the next major international conflict -- also cannot be achieved without Saudi Arabia, whose commanding share of reserves will almost certainly increase over the next two decades. 
 As anti-Saudi sentiment has grown post-Sept. 11, it has become fashionable to argue that the United States should ''get tougher'' with Riyadh, over both counterterrorism and energy. But American leverage over the kingdom has been declining for more than a decade as our strategic partnership has become a mixed blessing for the Saudi leadership. Starting in the 1990's, the presence of American troops in the kingdom after the gulf war became a source of insecurity rather than security for a Saudi regime facing an increasingly radicalized Sunni majority and a marginalized and restive Shiite minority concentrated in the kingdom's oil-rich eastern province.
 The decline in American leverage over Saudi Arabia accelerated after Sept. 11. The United States had its own reasons for removing its military forces from Saudi Arabia in 2003, but the drawdown also reflected Saudi interest in a looser security relationship with Washington. 
 From a Saudi perspective, the overthrow of a Sunni strongman in Baghdad, followed by a chaotic occupation of Iraq that is providing a training ground for a new generation of anti-Saudi jihadists, has tilted the balance between Sunni and Shiite in the Persian Gulf region. Islamist Shiites dominate post-Saddam Iraq, and Iran under consolidated conservative leadership is emerging as a more powerful state. 
 Personal communication between President Bush and Crown Prince Abdullah remains warm and respectful, as manifested at their April meeting at the president's ranch in Crawford, Tex. Superficial comity at the top, though, masks a lack of serious dialogue on a range of strategic issues and Saudi dissatisfaction with American policy. 
 Saudi interest in hedging the kingdom's strategic position is evident in Riyadh's cultivation of China as a customer for Saudi oil, a provider of consumer and manufactured goods to the Saudi market, and a supplier of military hardware to the Saudi armed forces and security apparatus -- including missile and, perhaps, nuclear technology. 
 Prince Turki's arrival could be a moment for the administration to begin to reverse these troubling trends. Bilateral engagement must go beyond exhortation and public criticism to allow for true give-and-take. The United States would need to be prepared for a serious conversation about modifying its policies toward regional security, stability and peacekeeping in Iraq and the Arab-Israeli peace process to recognize Saudi interests and initiatives -- a conversation that Prince Turki could facilitate. Moreover, the United States should design its encouragement of economic and political reform in the kingdom to make clear that it wants not to destabilize Saudi rule but to strengthen reformist elements within the current power structure -- elements that Prince Turki clearly represents.
 The 60-year partnership between the United States and Saudi Arabia was not, as President Bush alluded in a 2003 speech, a mistake. It was, and remains, an indispensable element in America's quest for a more stable regional and international order. The administration should take advantage of Prince Turki's presence in Washington to give that partnership the attention it deserves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Intelligence Services

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (75%) Turki Al-Faisal (Prince); Flynt Leverett; Abdullah (Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); MOROCCO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SPAIN (69%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



512 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: White House Makes Deals For Support Of Trade Pact

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25 

 BODY:
With promises of more trade protection for textile companies, President Bush coaxed as many as six Republican lawmakers on Monday to vote for the Central American Free Trade Agreement.
 Three House Republicans from textile-producing districts announced they would support the trade pact, mainly because the White House promised to get commitments from Central American countries to maintain or increase their use of American fabrics.
Three more House Republicans from textile areas are expected to sign on as well. 
 White House officials and House Republican leaders are trying to pass the trade pact by the end of this week, sparing no effort to cut deals with reluctant party members.
 The trade agreement, known informally as Cafta, is deeply unpopular in textile-producing states like North and South Carolina. With all but a handful of Democrats planning to vote against Cafta, Mr. Bush needs to prevent Republican defections wherever possible.
 On Monday, Mr. Bush picked up the votes of Representative Bob Inglis of South Carolina, along with two Alabama congressmen, Spencer Bachus and Mike Rogers. Three other wavering Republicans, Representative J. Gresham Barrett of South Carolina, along with representatives Phil Gingrey and Lynn A. Westmoreland of Georgia, let it be known they were likely to come on board as well.
 Mr. Inglis said he agreed to vote for the pact in return for three specific commitments by Mr. Bush. 
 One agreement would let Central American countries export trousers duty-free to the United States only if they are made with pockets and linings from American mills. The measure was important to several mills in Mr. Rogers' district in Alabama that employ about 2,400 workers.
 Another side agreement would increase the amount of American fabric that Nicaragua agrees to buy in making clothing for exports. And a third would make it tougher for Central American clothing factories to rely on fabric from Mexico.
 ''With those three corrections, this Cafta is now a much better Cafta,'' Mr. Inglis told reporters on Monday.
 Even so, at least a half-dozen Republicans from textile areas are expected to vote against the pact, White House officials concede. 
 Mr. Bush is seeking support on other fronts. On Tuesday, House Republicans plan to vote on a bill that could expose China to retaliation for government-subsidized exports. 
 The administration has resisted that measure, but it is expected to swing several votes by reluctant party members from manufacturing states. Representative Phil English, Republican of Pennsylvania, reversed his opposition to Cafta last week because of the bill. And Representative Don Manzullo, an Illinois Republican from the factory area around Rockford, is expected to sign on as well.
 House leaders are dangling other incentives. They have threatened to delay a vote on a huge three-year highway-funding bill, which is packed with local projects, until after a vote on the trade pact. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TEXTILE MFG (91%); TEXTILES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (70%); APPAREL MFG (69%); GARMENT WORKERS (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%) International Trade and World Market; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Textiles; Protectionism (Trade)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BOB INGLIS (78%); LYNN A WESTMORELAND (58%); PHIL GINGREY (58%); J GRESHAM BARRETT (58%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (58%); PHIL ENGLISH (58%); DONALD A MANZULLO (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); MIKE ROGERS (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



513 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Offer Lines Of Attack For '08 Race

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, July 25 

 BODY:
In the wake of terrorist attacks abroad, a procession of potential Democratic presidential candidates raised sharp questions on Monday about the Republican leadership's handling of national security. 
 The Democrats, including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, also sharply criticized Republican fiscal policies, denouncing the rising national debt after the booming economy of the years when Bill Clinton was president. They spoke at a meeting of the Democratic Leadership Council, a prominent group of moderates who helped send Mr. Clinton to the White House in 1992. 
 The gathering here in Ohio, one of the most-contested states in last year's election, offered a glimpse of what may be the line of attack that Democrats will employ against Republicans between now and 2008.
 Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia said, ''Today's Washington fiscal conservative is someone who thinks that deficits can go on forever and that you can make the cost of the war go away simply by moving them off the balance sheet.''
 Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana accused the Bush administration of ''false bravado'' and ''incompetence'' in the way it handled the war in Iraq and its aftermath. ''It's obvious that they had no plan for winning the peace,'' Mr. Bayh said.
 Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa criticized the administration as ''not sharing with us the true reasons for going to war or the true price we would have to pay to continue the war.''
 But for all the criticism directed at Mr. Bush and his Republican allies on Capitol Hill, some of the prospective presidential contenders warned that Democrats had to offer the public more than criticism of the Republican Party if they hoped to begin winning again.
 ''We can't afford to be anti-, against everything,'' Mr. Vilsack said. ''America is waiting for us. They are desperate to know what we are for.''
 Republicans immediately fired back at the criticisms, mocking the council for reaching out to Mrs. Clinton, whom conservatives have long derided as a symbol of liberal excess.
 ''The fact that the centrist organization of the Democrat Party would anoint Hillary Clinton anything, exemplifies just how far left the Democrats have gone,'' said Tracey Schmitt, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee.
 ''There is nothing centrist about Senator Clinton's liberal record,'' Ms. Schmitt said in a statement.
 The Democrats' gathering, at a hotel ballroom, gave the potential presidential candidates an opportunity to showcase their skills before a group that still wields considerable influence in the party, though less than it did when Mr. Clinton was president.
 Mrs. Clinton seemed to stir the greatest enthusiasm with a 30-minute speech that covered a broad variety of topics, including foreign policy, domestic security, health care and education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Leadership Council

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); EVAN BAYH (79%); MARK WARNER (78%); TOM VILSACK (55%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Mark (Gov) Warner; Evan (Sen) Bayh; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



514 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Airport Improvements to Cost Billions, Operators Predict

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Capital development costs at the nation's airports will average $14.3 billion a year from 2005 through 2009 as air travel reaches record levels, according to a survey to be released today by an airport trade association.
 The association, Airports Council International-North America, which represents the governing bodies that own and operate commercial airports in the United States and Canada, estimates that United States airport development costs will exceed $71.5 billion through 2009.
That figure represents the cost of all airport capital projects involving the interior and exterior of terminals, including runway expansions, and items like construction of airport parking lots and trains that carry passengers between terminals. 
 The airport association's announcement represents an opening salvo in negotiations on Capitol Hill, expected to start early next year, over a bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration and its programs. 
 In a report issued last September, the F.A.A. estimated that airport capital needs would total $39.5 billion, or $7.9 billion annually, over the same period, but that estimate covers only projects that are financed by its airport improvement program. 
 The airport association's estimate includes F.A.A.-financed projects as well as others financed by airport revenue bonds, passenger facility charges and other means.
 Thomas Browne, a senior managing director of the Air Transport Association, the trade association for United States airlines, called the airport group's projections ''a good starting point for negotiations between Congress, the airlines, airports and other system users about how much money is going to be put into the system by the federal government.''
 Mr. Browne added that ''historically, the true annual capital development number lies somewhere between the F.A.A.'s number and the number produced by A.C.I.''
 Now, he said, ''the real negotiations can start. They will be influenced by things other than money.'' He said that many plans of airport directors were rejected not by airlines and not by the F.A.A., ''but by local political and environmental concerns.'' 
 The airport association's last capital needs assessment, published in 2002 for the period from 2002 through 2006, estimated its members' capital development costs would be $12.4 billion annually.
 Actual airport spending so far has been $10 billion to $12.6 billion annually, indicating that some projects have been postponed or canceled, the association said.
 Citing an F.A.A. forecast made in March that the number of people flying in the United States would top a billion by 2015, Greg Principato, president of the airport association, said, ''The aviation system has to accommodate record levels of passenger and shipper demands, which means it is more important than ever that we have the necessary funding and the tools available to meet airport and system needs.''
 Without these investments, he said, ''the F.A.A.'s forecast will not be met, service levels will suffer and the full potential of our aviation system will not be realized.''
 Jessica Soltz Rudd, a senior director of Fitch Ratings, the bond rating service, questioned the association's reliance on sanguine air-traffic forecasts.
 ''Is this true demand, or is it artificially created by the low cost of air fares?'' she asked. ''At some point, airlines' pricing power will return. The question of the day will be what happens on the airline side. How will this affect passengers and their choices? Will they travel at the same levels? Will the new capacity based on A.C.I.'s projections be necessary?'' 
 Daniel M. Kasper, a managing director in Cambridge, Mass., for LECG, an economic and financial consulting firm, said the airports ''are looking for more funding.''
 He said the airports appeared to be making the case for an increase in passenger facility fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (98%); AIRPORT OPERATION (91%); AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BONDS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Finances

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (84%) Airports Council International

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



515 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: DaimlerChrysler Settles Loan Bias Suit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 26 

 BODY:
A federal judge approved a settlement on Tuesday between the lending arm of DaimlerChrysler and minority customers in New Jersey who charged racial bias in the automaker's car loan policies. 
 The judge, Dennis M. Cavanaugh of United States District Court in New Jersey, approved the terms of the settlement, which will be shared with the class of black and Hispanic plaintiffs over the next 60 days. 
A federal judge will decide Oct. 6 whether to give final approval, a DaimlerChrysler attorney, Angelo Stio, said. 
 Under the settlement, DaimlerChrysler Services North America, based in the Detroit suburb of Farmington Hills, will donate $1.8 million to nonprofit consumer and civil rights groups to educate consumers, according to court documents. 
 The automaker has agreed to issue up to 850,000 preapproved loan offers to blacks and Hispanics that will advise the recipients of the interest rate they are entitled to based on creditworthiness. 
 The settlement will limit the amount a dealer is permitted to increase the annual percentage rate on a customer's loan. It also requires loan contract forms to disclose that interest rates are negotiable and that dealers may retain part of the finance charges. 
 The lawsuit was filed in New Jersey in 2000. 
 The financing arms of General Motors and Nissan Motor have also recently settled suits alleging discriminatory lending practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (92%); JUDGES (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Automobiles; Minorities (US); Blacks; Credit; Discrimination; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Dennis M (Judge) Cavanaugh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



516 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; New Art to a Deal At the Car Lot; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: One Chevrolet Showroom Courts Hispanics in Effort to Survive

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 26 

 BODY:
At ''Z'' Frank Chevrolet, it takes a little more spice to sell a Chevy these days.
 On a recent Saturday, salsa music blared from a radio near the showroom's entrance. Children watched a movie on Telemundo, the Spanish-language television station. Sales representatives wearing Tommy Bahama shirts conversed in Spanish with potential buyers.
At one point a customer rang a bell, signaling a sale, and cheers erupted. 
 Inside his office across from the entrance, Chuck Frank, the owner, could only smile. A year and half ago the situation was grim at the dealership named after his father, Zollie Frank, who founded it in 1936. 
 In a bid to rescue his family's legacy, Mr. Frank slashed costs, fired a third of his employees and focused his marketing efforts on the growing Hispanic population around ''Z'' Frank. It was the biggest gamble in a radical reshaping of the business, which until June 2004 had been losing money every month for nearly a year.
 Mr. Frank's struggles illustrate the challenges facing many General Motors dealers nationwide as they grapple with buyers who are more sophisticated and less brand loyal, whose eyes wander to other carmakers as G.M. lags in addressing concerns about ho-hum styling. To remain profitable, Mr. Frank and his team have had to brainstorm ways to customize their sales tactics to compensate for a lack of creativity in the vehicles they are trying to sell.
 Other dealers are getting inventive, too. They are offering everything from exotic coffee to Internet access to restaurants and amusement park rides on the premises to lure customers. ''All of these things are attempts to make a new-car dealership a destination,'' said Paul Taylor, the chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association. Even with deep discounting, dealers like Mr. Frank are looking for more permanent fixes, choosing in some cases to expand beyond selling General Motors models alone. 
 G.M.'s employee discount promotion last month lifted June sales of its new vehicles by 41 percent compared with June 2004, as customers snapped up many of the remaining 2005 models, particularly trucks. At ''Z'' Frank, which does not sell new pickup trucks, sales rose 34 percent.
 ''It was pure pricing,'' Melissa Ohlson said of her decision to buy a 2005 Trailblazer from ''Z'' Frank earlier this month. Ms. Ohlson works in the service department of a Toyota dealership, drove a Honda Pilot and had to travel an hour to ''Z'' Frank from a Chicago suburb. But the employee discount saved her more than $6,000 off the $33,000 sticker price, she said, and she found the sales staff hungry to make a deal.
 ''I didn't get treated like I was another number in the deli,'' she said.
 Mr. Frank, 52, hardly sees the employee-pricing promotion, which was extended into this month, as a long-term fix. Since 2000, new car sales for all brands in the area around his dealership have plummeted by nearly a third, he said. But Toyota, Nissan and Honda have all picked up market share at the expense of G.M.
 ''Our problem is not losing Chevrolet market share in our area,'' said Mr. Frank, who wishes G.M. sold hybrid cars. ''The challenge is declining volume and declining General Motors market share over all.''
 To hedge his bets, Mr. Frank is expanding his used-car business and negotiating to lease back ''Z'' Frank's original location a block away, which today houses a Dodge and Kia dealership. He plans to move his Chevy franchise into the same showroom, cutting his rent by about half. 
 ''I still believe that Chevy will continue to be the volume leader of any of these franchises,'' Mr. Frank said. ''But to be a single-line Chevy dealer in the heart of Chicago with the expenses and real estate costs what they are is a high-risk proposition today.''
 It was not always this way.
 In 1936, Mr. Frank's father opened ''Z'' Frank by selling Chryslers and Plymouths. He switched allegiance to General Motors and Chevrolet in 1953, and by the 1970's was one of the largest Chevy dealers in the country. The elder Mr. Frank was a pioneer in the industry; in 1939 ''Z'' Frank was the first dealership in the country to lease a car.
 Times were good. In its heyday, ''Z'' Frank was selling up to 4,000 new Chevys a year. But sales fell in the 1980's, and then after 2000, the domestic car industry resumed a decline it has yet to reverse. By that time, many of ''Z'' Frank's customers had moved to the suburbs. The area around the dealership -- once a mix of Jewish, Polish and Greek immigrants -- had become a polyglot of groups from all corners of the globe, including Indians and Hispanics. A quarter of the people in the area now turn over every year, Mr. Frank said, citing demographic data. ''It makes it very difficult for us to build any kind of loyalty,'' he said.
 Now, Mr. Frank is selling about 1,000 new cars a year.
 After getting into his father's business in 1976, Chuck Frank's passion for selling cars had waned as he pursued his other great love: the environment. An outdoor enthusiast who has backpacked in Thailand and kayaked in Chile, Mr. Frank joined the Sierra Club and lobbied in Washington for higher car fuel-efficiency, raising eyebrows because he sells cars for a living. Not having hybrid cars to sell at his dealership frustrates him. 
 But in 2003, with ''Z'' Frank's sales slipping, Mr. Frank came back to the dealership full time. ''We had not adapted to the changing environment,'' he said.
 Late that year he began the most painful purge in the dealership's history, firing his general manager and controller and two-thirds of his sales crew. He overhauled everything from the company's insurance structure to its compensation plans, doing away with perks like company cars. 
 To direct the rebuilding, Mr. Frank recruited as his general manager Joseph McQuillen, a former railroad worker, from a Chevy dealership on the South Side of Chicago. 
 ''Chuck did something that most dealers can't do,'' Mr. McQuillen, 48, said, ''which is to blow up the monster that had been built.'' 
 Last December, with his new team in place, Mr. Frank convened an unusual Sunday morning meeting in the dealership's second-floor conference room. Mr. McQuillen brought doughnuts. Over the next five hours, they debated how to adapt. 
 ''It was like the birth of a company,'' said Michael Rzadzki, a 26-year veteran of the dealership.
 The team decided to aim at the Hispanic community. Mr. Frank has turned to radio and television ads rather than print ads. The dealership also gives away soccer balls and portable CD players, and does radio broadcasts from parks. 
 Mr. McQuillen decided that Saturdays should be devoted to the Hispanic sales effort. Salesmen wear casual Tommy Bahama shirts rather than neckties. Once a month, Mario Martinez, a local taco salesman, gives away free tacos in the dealership's service bay.
 Four seven-foot-tall artificial palm trees and a plastic sandbox made their debut earlier this month on the cramped showroom floor.
 The effort seems to be working. Sales are up two of the last three quarters, with a 15 percent surge in the first three months of the year. But even with the employee discount, sales lagged in the second quarter, down 8 percent from a year ago.
 So far, the local Honda and Toyota competition seem unfazed. At Carr's Honda Center, just up the street, the mood was sedate recently in the much-larger showroom, where salesmen wore crisp dress shirts and ties and seemed in no hurry to greet browsing customers.
 ''Honda dealers don't have to work as hard to sell their vehicles,'' said Fred Dino, the sales manager. ''People will come through the doors regardless.''
 General Motors' recent push has attracted some new buyers. Colleen Gould and her husband recently traded in their 1997 Honda Civic to help buy a 2005 Chevy Equinox at ''Z'' Frank. The employee discount had drawn them to a Cadillac dealer, and they started researching other G.M. cars after deciding to buy a sport utility vehicle.
 A faulty exhaust system on the Civic had sowed seeds of doubt about Honda, but they were still leery of G.M. ''I don't think that our perceptions were erased until we got into the door of the dealership,'' Ms. Gould said.
 Despite the better overall sales, G.M.'s employee discount has proved painful for the dealer's sales representatives. The haggle-free sales leave only $100 in commission per car, said Roosevelt Vonil, a salesman. Gross profits from sales of new cars have dipped $600 a car. But Mr. McQuillen said it was worth it. ''You need to reacquaint the American public with this great product,'' he said.
 Mr. Frank said he was still evaluating the push for Hispanic customers. At a recent strategy meeting, he challenged Mr. McQuillen's claims that some 40 percent of the dealership's overall sales are going to Hispanics. ''I believe thoroughly in the strategy,'' Mr. Frank said. ''But I think his estimates are a little high.''
 Angel Vasquez, a salesman, is not convinced Hispanics will remain faithful. He remains cautiously optimistic but is worried about whether G.M. can reverse its decline. ''Now they are starting to lean more to Toyota than G.M.,'' Mr. Vasquez, who came to ''Z'' Frank last year, said of his customers. ''The message is still getting across that Toyota is more quality for the money. GM waited so long to do anything about the styling and now everybody is so far ahead of them.'' 
 For Mr. Frank, there is no turning back. His father's legacy ''was more important than I want to recognize or acknowledge,'' he said. ''I don't want to give this up. I think we can turn this around and make it work, and I want to try.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At ''Z'' Frank Chevrolet in Chicago, customers and employees line up for free tacos from Mario Martinez, also known as Taco Mario. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C2)
''I don't want to give this up,'' Chuck Frank says of the Chevrolet dealership his father founded. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Graph: ''Losing Ground''All of General Motors' brands have lost market share over the years.Graph tracks G.M.'s United States market share, by brand since 1985.*Saturn was started in 1990
G.M. bought 50 percent of Saab in 1989 and the rest of the company in 2000
G.M. began selling Hummers in 2001 +The brand was discontinued.(Sources by Ward's AutoInfoBank
 General Motors)(pg. C1)Graph: ''Quick Fix''General Motors' sales jumped and its inventory declined sharply in June after it announced that it would start offering customers the same discounts that its own employees received on G.M. cars.Graph tracks sales and inventory since 2004. (Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); SALES FORCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%) Automobiles; Hispanic-Americans; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Chuck Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



517 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Upbeat, But Slightly Less So 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Americans' anxiety about the economy and their jobs resurfaced in July, sending a widely followed measure of consumer confidence down.
 The Conference Board said yesterday its consumer confidence index fell to 103.2 in July, from a revised 106.2 in June. 
The July figure was worse than the 106.2 analysts had expected, but was still considered solid.
Lynn Franco, director of the private research group's Consumer Research Center, said the dip was ''no cause for concern.'' 
 ''The overall state of the economy remains healthy and consumers' outlook suggests no storm clouds on the short-term horizon,'' Ms. Franco said in a statement. ''Even the steady upward tick of fuel prices at the pump has done relatively little to dampen consumers' spirits. Yet, while there is little to suggest a downturn in activity, there is also little to suggest a pickup.'' 
 Consumers' sentiment contrasted with an upbeat assessment of the economy last week from the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, who said he expected the economy to keep growing even as a flurry of job cuts from major corporations were announced. 
 ''There was enough bad economic news this month to justify a slight dip in consumer confidence,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist at Wachovia.
 The Conference Board index is derived from responses received through July 19 to a survey mailed to 5,000 households. The figures released yesterday include responses from at least 2,500 households. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); LAYOFFS (66%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



518 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Join China and India In Climate Pact

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Wednesday, July 27 

 BODY:
The United States plans to join China and India in an Asian-Pacific climate agreement intended to replace the Kyoto pact as a method to control greenhouse emissions, an official attending the annual conference of Asian nations in Vientiane, Laos, said Wednesday. 
 The new five-member pact, described as an initiative of the Bush administration, would group the United States and Australia, developed countries that have not signed the Kyoto accord, with China and India, major producers of greenhouse emissions.
 Even though they are major contributors to air pollution, China and India have not been required to sign the Kyoto protocol because they are considered developing countries. 
 The pact, to be called the Asia-Pacific Partnership for Clean Development and Climate, will join as partners nations that together account for more than 40 percent of the worlds greenhouse gas emissions, said the official said, who spoke anonymously so as not to pre-empt the formal announcement. 
 The agreement will be a major item on the agenda later this week at the summit meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations now under way in Vientiane, the official said. 
 The deputy secretary of state, Robert Zoellick, who is representing the Bush administration at the conference, is scheduled to arrive Wednesday. 
 The aim of the pact will be to curb greenhouse emissions without hurting economic growth in the region, the official said. The main objection of the Bush administration to the Kyoto protocol is that the mandatory targets for reducing emissions by 2012 would be too much of a harness on developed industrial economies. 
 Instead of mandatory targets, the new pact would aim to use the latest technologies to limit emissions and would try to make sure the technologies were available to countries that need them most, the official said. The members of the new grouping would include some of the world's major coal producers and exporters: China, South Korea and Australia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Kyoto Protocol; Weather

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (56%) Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (67%) ASIA (97%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (95%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Vientiane (Laos)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



519 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tries a New Approach In Talks With North Korea

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Beijing.

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 26 

 BODY:
The Bush administration appeared to show signs of new flexibility in talks with North Korea on Tuesday, with American and North Korean diplomats meeting here at length to discuss the delicate question of how aid or energy assistance may be provided to the North as it begins the process of dismantling its nuclear weapons program.
 Delegations from the two countries met alone here for the second straight day to discuss a proposal the administration put forward in June 2004 before North Korea walked away from talks. Christopher R. Hill, who is leading the American delegation, told reporters that the ''businesslike'' meeting again raised the prospect of a three-month ''freeze'' period on North Korea's nuclear activity, followed by a rapid dismantlement of their nuclear plants. In return, the aid spigot from South Korea and other neighbors would begin to open wider. 
 In Washington, a senior administration official said the approach to the North was loosely patterned on the administration's dealings with Libya in 2003. That negotiation led to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's decision to give up all the central elements of his nuclear program. But North Korea's nuclear infrastructure is far older, far more advanced and far better hidden, and the official said that at this point the United States was simply trying to ''lay the groundwork'' for a disarmament deal that many in Washington say Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, is unwilling to make.
 Mr. Hill declined to give any specifics of the response given by the North Korean vice foreign minister, Kim Kye Gwan. ''They talked about the June proposal,'' Mr. Hill said, according to the Kyodo News Agency of Japan. ''They talked about their concern about the sequencing of the proposal and the importance they attach to sequencing, where they don't want to have obligations ahead of other people's obligations.''
 During Mr. Bush's first term, Condoleezza Rice, now the secretary of state, was highly critical of President Bill Clinton for signing a deal that front-loaded the benefits to North Korea while putting off the North's disarmament.
 Senior American officials say that is still the administration's position, but they say that Mr. Hill has been given more leeway than his predecessor, James A. Kelly, about what tack to take with the North Koreans, including one-on-one meetings. 
 Mr. Hill seemed to suggest that the United States would be amenable to a step-by-step process under which North Korean concessions were met by rewards from the United States and other participants in the six-nation talks, South Korea, Japan, China and Russia. Mr. Hill said that when North Korea ''makes the decision to dismantle its nuclear program permanently, fully, verifiably,'' the United States and other participants in the talks would take ''corresponding measures.''
 He described the approach as ''words for words and actions for actions.'' 
 But the word ''verifiably'' may be a stumbling point, senior administration officials said, just as it was in decades of arms talks with the former Soviet Union. The United States says it does not know where major elements of North Korea's two suspected nuclear programs are -- meaning that it is bound to insist on the right to look almost anywhere in the country. It is a step that many in the administration say they do not believe North Korea is ready to take. 
 The bilateral meeting, held on the opening day of the six-nation talks here on the North Korean nuclear crisis, came as Mr. Hill sent several signals that the United States would take a more flexible negotiating line. In a statement during the opening session of the talks, he said the United States recognized the sovereignty of the North Korean government as ''a matter of fact'' and offered assurances that the Bush administration did not plan to launch a military attack against the country.
 In his opening remarks, Kim Kye Gwan, the top North Korean negotiator, avoided the belligerent tone often adopted by his government in his opening statement. ''Those directly involved should make a political and strategic decision to rid the threat of war from the Korean peninsula, and we are ready to do so,'' he said. ''I hope the U.S. and other nations are ready to do the same.''
 This fourth round of talks comes after North Korea broke off negotiations 13 months ago without publicly responding to the American proposal. The new talks have assumed an air of urgency because of American concerns that North Korea has rapidly expanded its nuclear arsenal. Nuclear experts worry that the North may have enough fuel to make eight or more nuclear bombs.
 The previous three rounds of talks in Beijing ended without a breakthrough, and the legitimacy of the six-nation negotiating structure could collapse if this round ends in a stalemate. The Bush administration has already suggested that it might invoke severe economic penalties if this round failed to produce results.
 In a side issue, Japan continued to insist that North Korea's past abduction of Japanese citizens should also be included in the talks, a position rejected by North Korea and discouraged by South Korea. 
 At a briefing after the close of the day's meetings, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman said that another plenary session would be held Wednesday and that the envoys from each country might also hold a joint meeting. The spokesman, Qin Gang, said that all the participants held bilateral meetings on Tuesday and that the session between the United States and North Korea was part of a broader warming trend in relations.
 ''Recently, the atmosphere has improved'' between the United States and North Korea, Mr. Qin said.
 The Chinese, who have served as host for each round of talks, have staked much of their diplomatic prestige on achieving a breakthrough. Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing asserted in his opening statement that the six-nation process was the only ''realistic, viable course'' for peacefully resolving the nuclear standoff, according to Chinese state media. But he also urged that the participating countries adopt a gradual approach to negotiations.
 ''These talks may run into all sorts of difficulties and setbacks,'' he said. ''If you climb up one crag at a time, you can always ascend a mountain.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The North Korean delegation, including Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan, center, in Beijing yesterday. (Pool photo by Elizabeth Dalziel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid ; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Jim Yardley; David E Sanger; Christopher (Amb) Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (65%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (65%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) North Korea; China; Japan; South Korea; Russia; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



520 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Labor Debates the Future Of a Fractured Movement 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 26 

 BODY:
The two giant unions that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. say their exodus will help revive the labor movement. But Greg Devereux, one of the 800 delegates at the union convention here, was not buying it. 
 ''A lot of people are still stunned and angry about it,'' Mr. Devereux, a Washington State delegate from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said Tuesday. ''A lot of people view it as destructive and selfish.'' 
His friend Ken Allen, a delegate from Portland, Ore., wearing the kelly green shirt of the state, county and municipal employees, said: ''What they did will absolutely hurt. It will hurt our political program, and it will hurt our organizing programs. These unions hold themselves as a model for organizing, and how does it help the rest of the labor movement when they pull out?'' 
 Though absent from the convention hall on Navy Pier, officials from the two dissident unions -- the Service Employees International Union and the Teamsters -- say that breaking away will give their unions new energy and focus that will spur growth. 
 In announcing the rupture on Sunday, Anna Burger, the service employees' secretary-treasurer, said, ''Today will be remembered as the rebirth of union strength in America.''
 Comments like those rankled many delegates and generated a debate, inside the hall and out, about whether the schism could somehow help labor end its prolonged slide. The service employees, the Teamsters and two other unions threatening to quit -- the United Food and Commercial Workers and Unite Here, which represents apparel, hotel and restaurant workers -- assert that by going their own way, they can organize more workers through new, intense forms of cooperation. 
 But amid the banners and memorabilia at the convention, the most frequent refrain is: how can division help revive a movement whose watchword has long been solidarity?
 Andrew L. Stern, the president of the service employees and the man who spearheaded the split, predicts that the insurgent unions will have some of the same huge success in organizing workers as unions did after a giant schism in the 1930's.
 At that time, an organizing group that became the Congress of Industrial Organizations was eager to unionize mass production workers in steel, rubber and autos, and it broke away from the American Federation of Labor, which was far less interested in large-scale organizing. The C.I.O. unionized millions of workers, the largest such surge in American history. 
 Mr. Stern is optimistic, noting that 52 percent of nonunion American workers say they would vote to join a union, although he says unions still face tough times because corporations fight so vehemently against unionization.
 The labor giants of the 1930's, like John L. Lewis and Walter Reuther, organized workers in manufacturing, then the nation's fastest growing sector. But Mr. Stern and his allies hope to organize workers in what has become America's fastest growing sector, service work, which includes nursing home aides, hotel maids, janitors, supermarket cashiers, warehouse sorters and casino employees.
 Just as the 1930's labor leaders saw factory workers as ripe for their message, the insurgent unions see similar promise in service-sector workers, many of them low paid, many of them immigrants.
 ''When the C.I.O. left the A.F.L., that was a spark that helped labor grow,'' said Tom Balanoff, a service employees delegate who is not attending the convention. ''What our unions have done can also serve as a spark to get unions focused, to create some excitement.''
 The insurgent unions say that they will undertake ambitious organizing drives involving thousands of service-sector workers at places like Wal-Marts and tribal casinos. Three other unions -- the laborers, the farm workers and the carpenters -- said they would work with them.
 But many labor experts say changes in the work force will make it hard for Mr. Stern and his allies to match the success of the C.I.O. The 1930's were an era of labor militancy, and it was easier to unionize 3,000 workers in an auto assembly plant than immigrant janitors or hotel maids on various floors of a building. 
 ''In the 1930's, the workers were hungry to organize,'' said Marick Masters, a labor relations expert at the University of Pittsburgh. ''You had high levels of unemployment, and workers had little to lose. The climate was really quite militant. The climate is very different today.''
 Richard Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell, said, ''There's a big difference in the environment today for unions having George Bush instead of Franklin Roosevelt.''
 And some workplace experts see a bleak outlook for labor, no matter what the service employees union and its allies do. ''Maybe all they're doing is rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 But the insurgent unions point to the service employees' success -- adding 700,000 workers in a decade and growing to 1.8 million members -- as reason to be optimistic. These unions say they will take a sophisticated, multiunion approach to organizing and will devote far more money and resources to organizing than unions have before. 
 At the convention, some delegates criticized the Teamsters and the food and commercial workers, saying it was absurd that their two unions were portraying themselves as vigorous organizers after having a lackluster record and sometimes needing a big boost from the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing department. 
 The dissidents say their revolt might spur more organizing in another way because they want to show other unions that they can grow far faster than the A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions. 
 Bill George, the president of the Pennsylvania State A.F.L.-C.I.O., was pessimistic about the schism's effects, saying it would create havoc for state labor federations and central labor councils. He also predicted that the split would encourage unions to raid each others' members and to fight among themselves to recruit the same workers. 
 Although a sharp critic of the schism, Dan Kane, secretary-treasurer of the United Mine Workers, said the exodus just might encourage more organizing.
 ''We have to look at this change as an opportunity to energize the whole labor movement,'' Mr. Kane said. ''This week there's suddenly a bunch of people paying attention to unions who weren't paying attention before, and they realize we have can have an important impact on their lives.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); COUNTIES (76%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); RESTAURANTS (67%); HISTORY (50%) Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (57%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Service Employees International Union; International Brotherhood of Teamsters

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Greg Devereux

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



521 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: 2 Central Asian States Reassure Rumsfeld on Use of Bases by U.S.

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: DUSHANBE, Tajikistan, July 26 

 BODY:
The Pentagon received assurances from two Central Asian states on Tuesday that it could continue to use their air bases to support relief and counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan, easing concerns about the possible loss of access to a major air base in Uzbekistan. 
 The two countries, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, joined Russia, China, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan earlier this month in demanding that the United States set a deadline for withdrawing from military bases in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. Those installations have played a pivotal role in American military operations in Afghanistan since late 2001.
After meeting with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, the Kyrgyz defense minister, Lt. Gen. Ismail Isakov, said at a news conference with Mr. Rumsfeld in Bishkek that the American military could keep using Manas Air Base, outside the Kyrgyz capital, for cargo and refueling missions as long as the security situation in Afghanistan remained unstable. 
 ''Once there is stabilization, there will be no need,'' General Isakov said. ''But now I agree with Mr. Secretary, who mentioned that the situation in Afghanistan is far from stable.'' General Isakov later added: ''The air base in Manas will stay as long as the situation in Afghanistan requires.'' 
 At the news conference, Mr. Rumsfeld declined to comment on the basing arrangements he had reaffirmed during meetings with General Isakov and President-elect Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev. 
 But as he prepared to board his plane at Manas, the airfield from which 1,000 American troops operate, Mr. Rumsfeld told some of the Air Force servicemen, ''I wouldn't pack your bags.'' He then added, ''I have every reason to believe the relationship will continue in an orderly way.'' 
 Kyrgyzstan, a poor, landlocked country of five million people roughly the size of South Dakota, has an economic incentive to keep the base. The United States spends about $50 million a year for fuel, landing rights and other expenses there, said William A. James, an American Embassy spokesman. 
 The fate of the Manas base is significant, given the growing strains between the United States and Uzbekistan since late May, when Uzbek security forces used gunfire to put down an uprising and antigovernment demonstration. 
 The Uzbek president, Islam A. Karimov, has refused entreaties from Western governments, including the United States, to permit a credible international inquiry into the uprising and crackdown, and he has threatened to evict the American military from a major base, Karshi Khanabad. 
 So far during his three-day trip to Central Asian and other countries, Mr. Rumsfeld has sought to play down the possible loss of access to the Uzbek base.
 Later in the day, Mr. Rumsfeld flew here to the Tajik capital and plunged into afternoon meetings with President Emomali Rahmonov and other top officials that focused on narcotics trafficking and economic development, as well as security matters. The United States, for instance, is spending $28 million to build a new bridge between Tajikistan and Afghanistan. 
 The Pentagon has not used an air base near here regularly since 2003, but Washington has negotiated emergency landing rights and access for brief refueling stops. France has about 100 troops stationed at the airfield, from which it flies supply flights into Afghanistan. 
 At a news conference with Mr. Rumsfeld after the meetings, Foreign Minister Talbak Nazarov reaffirmed his government's willingness to provide access to airspace and territory to support allied operations in Afghanistan. 
 ''Tajikistan has been and will strictly observe all its international commitments,'' Mr. Nazarov said. ''We've provided our airspace not only to the United States forces but other countries of the antiterrorist coalition.'' 
 Tajikistan shares a long, mountainous southern border with Afghanistan, and Pentagon officials have praised the Tajik government for using its influence with the large ethnic Tajik population in Afghanistan to support President Hamid Karzai's government there. 
 ''Our two countries are solid partners in the global struggle against extremism and in promoting peace and stability in Afghanistan,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); AIRPORTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); EVICTION (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); RELIGION (50%) 

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (58%) Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UZBEKISTAN (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%) Afghanistan; Kyrgyzstan; Tajikistan

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



522 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; RETURN TO SPACE: SPECTATORS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: In the Crowd, Emotions and Goose Bumps 

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Lynn Waddell contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Fla., for this article.

DATELINE: PORT ST. JOHN, Fla., July 26 

 BODY:
Alan Thomas left his home three counties away at 4 a.m., determined to claim a waterfront spot with a prime view of Launch Pad 39B. He set up his camera near a ''Beware of Alligators'' sign and waited as darkness gave way to a hot, bright morning and thrill-seekers from all corners of the nation asked to peer through his telephoto lens. 
 ''I guess you could call this a total experience,'' said Mr. Thomas, a freelance photographer from Lakeland who hopes to line his walls with pictures of the space shuttle Discovery blasting off. ''I've seen eight or nine go up over the years, and it's fantastic, just the feeling of it in the ground.'' 
All around him at Nicol Park in Port St. John, about seven miles from the launching pad at the Kennedy Space Center, people awaited the liftoff as frothily as Times Square revelers on New Year's Eve. It was a land of coolers, radios, snow cones, binoculars and flip-flops, license plates from as far away as Arkansas and Illinois, friendships hatched over shared advice (best local seafood at Crab Heaven, offered Lisa Dunn of Dallas) and a smidgen of anxiety. 
 ''This one is monumental because so much hinges on it,'' said Wendy Porter, a local resident who pedaled her bike to the park and stood in the shade with a radio to her ear. ''If something happens on this one, it doesn't end in 2010 -- it ends now.''
 Though crowds were lighter than on July 13, when the original launching was scuttled, enough visitors returned Tuesday to make hotels and restaurants doubly happy. The first effort at launching drew about 225,000 people and pumped about $12 million into the local economy, said Bonnie King, marketing director for Florida's Space Coast Office of Tourism. She estimated that Tuesday's launching brought up to 200,000 visitors and $10 million.
 Blanche Ellston and her daughter, Janet, drove from Tampa for the first launching try and stayed five days, hoping vainly that NASA would quickly fix the fuel sensor problem that stopped the countdown clock. They returned early Tuesday and camped out in the park, the mother knitting a purple pillow cover in her wheelchair while the daughter read aloud from ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.'' 
 ''My daughter's seen probably six and I've seen three here at Nicol Park,'' Mrs. Ellston said nine minutes before liftoff, joining Mrs. Dunn on a waterside bench. ''I get very emotional ever since the Challenger exploded. Now, after the last one, I have to worry until they come back.'' 
 Michael Loney of Tampa, just in from Disney World, was thinking hard about the seven astronauts who had been strapped into their seats since 7:30 a.m. 
 ''Can you imagine what's going through those guys' minds right now?'' Mr. Loney said. ''Anticipation and yet fear. There's always got to be that one spot in the back of their mind, wondering. I'd have my lucky rabbit foot with me, the lucky rabbit and the cage, too.'' 
 With three minutes to go, Mrs. Dunn, who had returned from a cruise on Monday and purposely missed her flight home to see the liftoff, announced she was getting goosebumps. She drummed her palms on her thighs and glanced at Mrs. Ellston for reassurance as her husband, Scott, readied his camera.
 ''Three, two, one,'' the radio said, and with barely a sound, the several hundred people in the park watched the burst of fire and the slow rise, stretching their necks to follow the Discovery and its waggly bright-white plume. Someone blew a bike horn, and a few people cheered. The shuttle disappeared behind a cloud, and Mrs. Dunn started crying. Mrs. Ellston clasped her hands and rocked, chanting, ''Go, go, go!'' She was crying, too, behind her sunglasses. 
 ''The sound is coming,'' Janet Ellston said, and it came, perhaps two minutes after liftoff: a low, deep rumbling all the way from the upper atmosphere. 
 Once the shuttle was out of sight, its fuel tanks released to the Atlantic, Jerry Blanton of Lake Norman, N.C., shouted a report from Nicol Park into his cellphone. ''Yep, it's a lift, no flaws, how about that? Big red flaming ball goes up so far you can see the solid booster separation.'' 
 Mr. Blanton, 59, said he had watched ''every bit of the Mercury program'' on television as a young man and wanted his children to see a liftoff up close. They were making a 20-hour roundtrip to see the launching on July 13 and another 20 for the makeup date. Mr. Blanton was elated but Anna, 20, said she had a better time at the beach and Southey, 22, said he had wanted more smoke and noise.
 ''Their problem is they've watched 'Armageddon' about 25 times with the surround sound turned all the way up,'' Mr. Blanton said.
 For Samantha Elston, 11, whose mother does not allow much television or video-game-playing back in Oakwood Hills, Ill., the experience was more profound.
 ''Seeing the fire and the line in the sky was amazing,'' she said, strapping into the family van with four brothers and sisters. ''I think this was the most best thing I've seen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WATCHING THE LIFTOFF -- Some NASA subcontractors were among the crowd of spectators. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
IN THE CONTROL CENTER -- NASA officials Michael Griffin, right, and Michael Kostelnik. (Photo by Bill Ingalls/NASA, via European Pressphoto Agency)
THE FIRST LADY AND THE GOVERNOR -- The first lady, Laura Bush, left, with Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. (Pool Photo by Bruce Weaver)
 The space shuttle Discovery lifted off yesterday from Launch Pad 39B at the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Fla. The launching was the first since the shuttle Columbia and its crew were lost on Feb. 1, 2003. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); TOURISM (50%) Space; Space Shuttle; Discovery (Space Shuttle)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (83%)

PERSON: Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



523 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Moving Into the Neighborhood

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, July 20 

 BODY:
When Robert J. Amsdell decided to build a ministorage site in western Pennsylvania in the early 1970's, the concept was so new that even his banker was mystified. Back then, moving companies provided temporary storage for customers who were relocating, but did not give them ready access to their belongings. 
 ''He said, 'The whole thing doesn't make sense to me, but if you're willing to sign for it personally, we'll give you the money,''' said Mr. Amsdell, now the chairman and chief executive of U-Store-It, a company based here that went public as a real estate investment trust in October. 
Once dismissed as a way to use a piece of land until a better opportunity comes along, much like a parking lot, ministorage -- now more commonly known as self-storage -- has shed its backwater image to become one of the hottest sectors of commercial real estate. Investors are clamoring to get into the business, financing is readily available, prices for facilities are at record levels and a wave of consolidation is taking place in what is still largely a fragmented industry.
 U-Store-It, for example, is on the verge of completing a total of $309.5 million worth of acquisitions that are increasing the company's size from 202 to 301 facilities. Last month, the Prime Property Fund of Morgan Stanley Real Estate established a $400 million joint venture with Safeguard Storage Properties, a private company in New Orleans with 56 facilities.
 Dwarfing those transactions was the $2.3 billion purchase of Storage U.S.A. by Extra Space Storage, a REIT with headquarters in Salt Lake City, and its partner, Prudential Real Estate Investors. The seller was GE Commercial Finance, a division of General Electric. The deal, which closed on July 14, made Extra Space Storage, with 630 facilities owned or managed, second only to the industry behemoth, Public Storage of Glendale, Calif., which has 1,471 buildings.
 ''The management teams that we talk to continue to marvel at the prices being paid for assets that were acquired for a lot less,'' said Tara J. Innes, a managing director of Fitch Ratings. ''There's a lot of investor interest in this sector. They are viewing it as more mainstream.''
 Self-storage owes its success to Americans' mobility and their propensity to accumulate more things than they have room for -- particularly in places like California and Florida, where housing costs are high and many homes lack basements. Other important factors are divorce and a death in the family, industry specialists say. 
 The breakthrough for the industry, Mr. Amsdell said, came with the realization that ministorage operators could charge much lower rates than moving-and-storage companies if they did not have to insure the goods. ''We sell insurance, but we're not responsible,'' he said. ''Because of that, we offer much more competitive pricing, and tenants are able to access their goods.'' 
 Today, self-storage is a $15 billion business, with more than 38,000 separate facilities, according to the Self Storage Association, a trade group. But the top 10 companies, which include five REIT's, account for less than 11 percent of the market, according to the 2005 Self-Storage Almanac, published by Mini-Storage Messenger, a trade publication.
 Some of the larger companies offer not only economies of scale but also advantages like call centers, which can steer business to underperforming facilities, said James S. Corl, the chief investment officer for real estate at Cohen & Steers, which owns shares in all the self-storage REIT's. 
 As of the third quarter of 2004, the average rental price nationwide of an air-conditioned 10-square-foot unit was $135 a month, with such facilities showing a 4 percent increase over the previous year, the Self Storage Association reported. 
 As competition for commercial real estate has intensified, investors are gravitating toward self-storage because it offers initial yields of 7 percent or more, well above apartment buildings. Charles D. Le Claire, who heads the self-storage group at Marcus & Millichap, a national investment brokerage company, said he recently put seven self-storage properties on the market and got 15 bids.
 Investors also like self-storage because leases are commonly written month to month, allowing operators the flexibility to respond to economic trends. Overhead is minimal and the average occupancy rate is a healthy 85 percent. During the recent economic downturn, vacancies increased slightly, but the industry suffered less than other sectors.
 ''It's clearly not recession-proof, but people move during good times and bad times,'' said Jim Davies, a principal of Buchanan Storage Capital, a division of Buchanan Street Partners, a real estate investment bank. ''They need a safe, well-located place to store their belongings.''
 In the industry's early days, self-storage facilities were usually one-story buildings tucked away behind warehouses, with garage-like units accessible from the outside. A recent trade group survey showed that many customers still prefer to be able to drive up to a unit, but the rising cost of land has forced developers to go vertical with multistory buildings. And these days, the choice locations are near major roads and shopping centers, where the buildings are most likely to be spotted by potential customers.
 Sometimes the facilities themselves are recycled big-box stores. But local communities often balk at such conversions, preferring to replace abandoned big-box stores with other retailers that generate heavy sales tax revenues.
 ''The longer the store is vacant -- so that it is becoming an eyesore -- the more willing the city is to be reasonable,'' said Ken Nitzberg, the chief executive of Devon Self-Storage of Emeryville, Calif., which has converted 52 vacant buildings. 
 Some communities require developers to camouflage their facilities so that they mesh with nearby residential neighborhoods.
 ''These are chameleon-like projects,'' said Ariel L. Valli, an architect in Aliso Viejo, Calif., whose firm has designed 350 storage facilities, including the elegant Spanish-style Date Palm Storage in Cathedral City, outside Palm Springs. ''They need to blend in -- in size, shape, texture, color landscaping. Then they are better received.''
 But Mr. Le Claire of Marcus & Millichap said that owners usually like it better when the building's function is obvious to passers-by.
 It would be impossible to mistake U-Store-It's new plain-vanilla site in Strongsville, a community about 14 miles from downtown Cleveland, for anything but self-storage.
 Inside, however, the building, a converted warehouse, has been equipped with high-tech features designed for business users. According to the Self Storage Association, about 40 percent of all self-storage customers use their units for business -- a figure that other industry specialists say is far too high. U-Store-It and other companies are also trying to attract national corporations that may currently be renting costlier office or retail space to use for storage. 
 Showing off an electronic access system that can track the comings and goings of several different employees, Mr. Amsdell said it was being used by sales representatives for drug companies who need a secure place to store their merchandise. U-Store-It is also experimenting with lockers that would permit business customers to receive packages when the office is closed.
 ''We believe this is the future of the business,'' said Steven G. Osgood, the company's president. ''It's an untapped market.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2005; August 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about increasing investor interest in the self-storage business misstated the size of a space for which the Self Storage Association quoted a rental price averaging $135 a month. It is 10 feet by 10 feet -- that is, 100 square feet, not 10. 1/3 1/3 
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about increasing investor interest in the self-storage business misstated the size of a space for which the Self Storage Association quoted a rental price averaging $135 a month. It is 10 feet by 10 feet -- that is, 100 square feet, not 10.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Robert J. Amsdell, chairman and chief executive of U-Store-It, at a self-storage building in Strongsville, Ohio, that had been a warehouse. The Spanish-style Date Palm Storage in Cathedral City, Calif., above, was designed to blend into the community outside Palm Springs. (Photo by David Maxwell for The New York Times)
(Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)Chart: ''Not-So-Mini Storage''Self-storage facilities have become one of the hottest sectors of commercial real estate.NATIONAL SELF-STORAGE DATA, 2005Number of facilities -- 38,817Number of units -- 11.6 millionTotal rentable square feet -- 1.459 billionAverage rentable square feet per capita -- 4.94Total market value -- $120 billionMarket share of top 10 companies -- 10.8%Market share of top 50 companies -- 15.0%Industry average occupancy level -- 84.2%(Source by 2005 Self-Storage Almanac
 Prudential Real Estate Investors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF STORAGE (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (65%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (57%) Storage; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (81%); CUBESMART (57%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (54%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (53%); EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC (53%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: U-Store-It

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (81%); GEC (LSE) (81%); GE (SWX) (81%); GE (NYSE) (81%); CUBE (NYSE) (57%); RLE (LSE) (53%); EXR (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS531130 LESSORS OF MINIWAREHOUSES & SELF-STORAGE UNITS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (53%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (53%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Robert J Amsdell

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



524 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Shares End Mixed as Oil Overshadows Earnings Reports

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks ended an erratic session mixed yesterday as investors weighed slightly higher oil prices against strong earnings reports.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 16.71 points, or 0.16 percent, to 10,579.77. Broader stock indicators were higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.13, or 0.17 percent, to 1,231.16, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 9.25, or 0.43 percent, to 2,175.99. 
The major indexes wavered throughout the day as investors tracked fluctuations in crude oil futures, which settled at $59.20 a barrel, up 20 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Rising oil prices, which could lead to lower consumer spending and declining corporate earnings, have shadowed stocks for months, and yesterday they distracted investors from the current crop of upbeat earnings reports. 
 Wall Street also reacted strongly to any company news that strayed from expectations. Investors punished the chemical maker DuPont because its results fell below forecasts, and bid up Lockheed Martin, the defense contractor, whose forecast for the year was above expectations. DuPont fell $2.89, or more than 6 percent, to $41.15. Lockheed Martin gained $1.48, or 2.4 percent, to $63.99.
 Michael H. Strauss, chief economist at Commonfund, which manages about $34 billion for nonprofit institutions, said, ''It doesn't look like earnings have the huge upside surprise to catapult the market higher. At the same time, the earnings are there, so it's hard to get any type of sustainable weakness either; hence, the continuation of a very narrow trading range with a slight upside bias.''
 Texas Instruments' quarterly profit rose 42 percent, beating analysts' estimates, as it benefited from lower inventory levels among customers and robust demand for chips in a variety of new electronic gadgets. Its stock rose $1.70, or 5.6 percent, to $32.30.
 General Motors climbed $1.09 to $36.96 after the company's G.M.A.C. financial services unit said it would sell up to $55 billion worth of car loan contracts to Bank of America over the next five years.
 Black & Decker, the power tools and home improvement products maker, beat expectations with a second-quarter profit that rose 27 percent. But its chief financial officer said on a conference call with investors that the company was seeing ''more cautious order patterns by retailers,'' and the stock fell $1.53, or 1.7 percent, to $90.27.
 Bonds were higher, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury falling to 4.22 percent, from 4.25 percent, late Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, rose 5/32 to 99 6/32. The United States dollar edged lower against the euro. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills and 20-year inflation notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 99.751
High Rate -- 3.190
Coupon Yield -- 3.242
Low Rate -- 3.150
Median Rate -- 3.180
Total applied for -- $37,977,320
Accepted -- $16,221,070
Noncompetitive -- $60,886
The four-week bills mature Aug. 25, 2005.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price -- 107.821
High Yield -- 2.090
Low Yield -- 1.000
Median Yield -- 2.050
Accepted at low price -- 52%
Total applied for -- $10,233,144
Accepted -- $6,000,013
Noncompetitive -- $21,659
Interest set at -- 2 3/8%
The 20-year inflation notes mature Jan. 15, 2025.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (83%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); RETAILERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); POWER TOOLS (60%); EURO (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); AC FINANCIAL SERVICES-DUBLIN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (55%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



525 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Wasted Energy 

BYLINE: By Amy Myers Jaffe. 
Amy Myers Jaffe is a fellow for energy studies at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University.

DATELINE: Houston 

 BODY:
LATELY there has been much grandstanding about the dangers of the bid by a government-backed Chinese oil company, Cnooc, for Unocal. But protectionists are focusing on the wrong target. It's true that China could be a threat to American energy security some day, but not because it wants to buy an American company already on the block.
 Before American politicians intervene to make sure that Unocal's Indonesian gas and oil fields remain in the hands of a United States corporation, they would do well to recall some history. In the 1930's, the Japanese government, urged on by the Japanese military and domestic oil firms, began asserting control over oil imports, refining facilities and oil resources in its colonies in China to the detriment of the Western companies, which, at the time, owned the majority of Japan's oil business. The Japanese government considered this a vital move to protect the country's security. But American and European oil companies protested. In August 1934, Walter Teagle of Standard Oil and Henri Deterding of Royal Dutch Shell lobbied Washington to frighten Japan into moderation by hinting at a cutoff of American oil exports. The State Department demurred, but mutual tension over oil supplies escalated into paranoia and contributed to the build-up to World War II. 
The outcry over China's potential acquisition of Unocal may or may not partake of the same kind of historical dynamic. But in reality, China's purchase of Unocal's Indonesian assets is hardly a threat that merits the rise in bilateral tensions and political gamesmanship that could follow an American effort to block the Cnooc deal. 
 In fact, even if the Chinese acquired Unocal -- which seems less likely now that a rival bidder, Chevron, has sweetened its offer -- Cnooc's oil output would still be a small fraction of that of top American companies. 
 Chevron, for example, produced more than 1.8 million barrels a day in 2004 from reserves holding close to 8,599 million barrels. Cnooc barely produces a tenth of that from its overseas holdings. The top three American firms -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips -- together produced about 5.6 million barrels a day last year. It is hard to imagine how China's purchase of Unocal's limited oil assets would threaten such powerful American companies or the United States itself. 
 Moreover, it is in the American interest to promote open access to foreign investment in oil exploration and production. Without it, American oil companies could not survive, and the prospects for diversity in the oil supply, a notion the United States has long favored, would be considerably dimmed. If anything, the United States should be pushing policies that expand such access in oil-rich countries like Iraq, Mexico, Russia and Saudi Arabia. 
 That said, there is real reason for American concern about China's suddenly voracious oil thirst. Right now, that thirst translates into a willingness to overbid for assets like Unocal. But to what strategies might China turn if Western competitors prevent it from acquiring choice assets?
 Already, China has secured some very attractive oil acreage in countries with which the United States has had troubled relations -- notably Iran, Sudan and, more recently, Venezuela. In some cases, the Chinese have purposely gone this route to take advantage of American sanctions policies. In doing so, they've helped to undermine the effectiveness of American efforts to isolate these nations, and they've given such countries the impression that so long as they have oil, they can fruitfully play China and the United States against each other. 
 From economic ties, political and military relationships often follow, and these pose even more fundamental risks to American security. China has begun expanding its light arms trade in many of the countries that supply it with oil. In Sudan, China has had to deploy quasi-military personnel to protect its oil facilities from local insurgents. And Beijing initially took a nonconstructive position on the crisis in Darfur, mainly because it couldn't afford to alienate the Sudanese government, since the China National Petroleum Corporation has a big presence in Sudan's prolific Heglig field.
 As China's energy requirements expand, Beijing's tactics could become more assertive, even aggressive. It is certainly not in our interest for China, a nuclear power, to be increasingly susceptible to political pressure from oil-producing states, or for it to lock out other consuming nations from sources of energy. China and Japan have nearly come to blows over a gas field in the East China Sea, and that is just a reminder of what can go wrong.
 The United States won't enhance its security by threatening to obstruct China's Unocal purchase. Instead, American policymakers should explore the possibility of a constructive, high-level dialogue with China on energy and the Middle East. The United States Department of Energy runs an alternative energy research program with Beijing that could serve as a good example of how to nurture common interests. We would also be wise to bring China into the oil emergency stockpiling system in coordination with the International Energy Agency, because reducing the risks to China's supply is a winning strategy for us, too.
 For now, the United States can afford to take the high road. China won't be a serious economic rival for years to come. And maybe by that time, its political stance will have changed on key issues like North Korea, Iran, intellectual property and, most important, human rights. 
 In the meantime, we should not forget that if it wanted to, the United States Navy could block China's access to Cnooc's foreign oil any day of the week. China, however, would have difficulty imposing such a blockade on American companies. It's true that as an oil importer, China is on the rise. But who here is really a threat to whom? The United States should take a step back and see the Unocal bid for what it is -- a move to be settled by the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); WORLD WAR II (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); IMPORT CONTROLS (54%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United States International Relations; Foreign Investments; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (86%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Unocal Corp; Cnooc Ltd

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (86%); COP (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (86%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%)

PERSON: Amy Myers Jaffe

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) China; Sudan; Venezuela; Iran

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



526 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Solidarity in Pieces

 BODY:
It's disturbing to hear the fracture of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. billed as the death of organized labor, particularly by those whose cheerful tone suggests that the sooner unions fade away, the better. Since we live in an era when the chasm between the lower and upper classes is growing, and the chances of moving out of poverty are getting slimmer, it's hard to imagine that working people have lost their need for a powerful advocate.
 Still, something had to change, as shown by the much-quoted statistic about the number of union workers in the private sector: fewer than 8 percent. The labor federation has been on the ropes for years, losing battles at workplaces and in politics, and against technology and global economic change. This week, two of the largest members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- the 1.8-million-member Service Employees International Union and the 1.4-million-member International Brotherhood of Teamsters -- withdrew as its convention in Chicago began. Others may follow. The leader of the service employees' union, Andrew Stern, a protege of the federation's president, John Sweeney, has now turned against his old mentor and wants Mr. Sweeney to step down. 
The dissidents have every right to be dismayed. The unions that once organized the great blue-collar industries now mainly concentrate on managing the pain as their members watch their jobs give way to automation or globalization. If the labor movement is to survive, it must be able to move into the low-paying service sector and organize workers who are desperately in need of a champion, whose employers currently take advantage of them because there is no one to speak and act on their behalf. 
 And although few dissidents would agree, organized labor needs to acknowledge that the global economy is not going to be repealed. Pouring money into political campaigns that focus on the fact that jobs are moving to countries where wages are only a fraction of what they are in America is not a strategy. It's more like trying to bail out the tide.
 America needs a union movement that is both feisty and sophisticated, ready to think creatively about new ways to lift up the diverse, struggling, yearning men and women who make up the working class. The chances of accomplishing that are greater if organized labor is united.
 We hope that the factions can negotiate a peace that is not a papering over of the deep and pressing problems that bedevil the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which include an expensive and sometimes ineffective bureaucracy and a knee-jerk political strategy. Solving the problems is far more important than saving the federation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); POLITICS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); PEACE PROCESS (50%) Labor; Editorials; Organized Labor; Relocation of Business; United States Economy; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



527 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Rural Military Values
<To the Editor:

 BODY:
 As ''The Rural War,'' by Robert Cushing and Bill Bishop (Op-Ed, July 20), illustrated so well, America's rural areas have indeed borne the casualty burden of the Iraq war to a greater degree than urban and suburban areas. But to state that this is primarily an ''economics story'' is to overlook the fact that citizens on farms and in smaller towns are often more conservative in nature regardless of party affiliation and more likely to have a positive view of military service. 
I know this to be true from my own personal experience. I grew up in a rural area, enlisted in the Army and now live and work in the Chicago area. 
 The difference in outlook between many of those I work and live alongside now, and those I grew up with, is significant and worth noting.

Matt Kaufman
Palatine, Ill., July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMIES (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SUBURBS (56%) Rural Areas; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Matt Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



528 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Simon Property and Morgan To Develop Retail in China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 26 

 BODY:
The Simon Property Group, one of the biggest real estate and shopping mall developers in the United States, said Tuesday that it had formed a partnership with Morgan Stanley and a state-owned Chinese company to develop about a dozen shopping centers in China.
 The companies did not disclose their investment in the shopping centers, all of which would be anchored by Wal-Mart outlets. But analysts said the projects could cost as much as $700 million to develop, which would make the deal one of the largest foreign real estate investments ever made in China.
Simon Property and Morgan Stanley are just the latest foreign companies hoping to cash in on China's booming retail and real estate markets. The huge investment comes at a time at a time of sizzling economic growth in China, soaring consumer spending as the middle class expands, and the development of large, modern supermarkets and shopping centers, particularly in the nation's biggest cities. 
 China's retail boom is so feverish that the country is now home to some of the world's most extravagant shopping malls, including a pair of megamalls in Beijing and the southern factory city of Dongguan, which will both soon surpass the West Edmonton Mall in Canada as the world's largest.
 Dozens of cities across China have also been building giant residential housing developments in the last few years, and many of these developments, which resemble miniature cities, are beginning to attract huge, new shopping centers.
 Foreign retailers, like Wal-Mart, Ikea and Carrefour are swamped by customers in Beijing and Shanghai. Many foreign retailers are expanding in China, partly because the government relaxed its rules on the foreign ownership of retail stores earlier this year.
 Wal-Mart, which now operates 47 stores in China, plans to have as many as 60 stores here by the end of this year. Its first outlet in Shanghai is expected to open later this week.
 For Simon Property, one of the world's biggest real estate companies, the investment is its first big move into China. The company already owns or manages more than 150 malls in the United States and Europe, including Minnesota's sprawling Mall of America.
 According to the terms of their agreement, Simon Property, which is based in Indianapolis, and Morgan Stanley's real estate unit will each own about 32.5 percent of the new partnership; their Chinese partner, a subsidiary of the Shenzhen International Trust and Investment Company, will own 35 percent. The Shenzhen parent company is Wal-Mart's joint venture partner in China.
 The three companies said Tuesday that they were considering placing the malls in China's fast-growing Yangtze River Delta region, which encompasses big cities like Shanghai, Nanjing and Hangzhou.
 Their first project is expected to be a 500,000-square-foot mall in the city of Hangzhou, about two hours southwest of Shanghai. Besides having a Wal-Mart, some of the malls would include cinemas operated by Warner Theaters, a unit of Time Warner, the companies said.
 CapitaLand, the real estate giant based in Singapore, also recently signed an agreement with Shenzhen International Trust and Investment to develop and manage 21 large shopping malls in China, most of which are also expected to be anchored by Wal-Mart stores. Those projects could cost as much as $1 billion to develop, according to the companies.
 Analysts say foreign investors are increasingly eager to get a foothold in China's booming real estate and retail markets. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have acquired large real estate properties in the last year, each paying more than $100 million. And foreign institutional investors are piling into China looking for more such opportunities.
 ''Everybody wants China exposure, but everyone is having trouble finding where to put their money to work,'' said Michael Hart, director of research in the Shanghai office of Jones Lang LaSalle, the real estate consultant. ''This seems to solve several problems. This isn't just one building. They have a major tenant in Wal-Mart.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (92%); EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley; Simon Property Group; Shenzhen International Trust and Investment Co

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (92%); 3333 (HKSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (55%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



529 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: General Motors to Sell Consumer Auto Loans to Bank of America

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 26 

 BODY:
General Motors said Tuesday that it would sell up to $55 billion worth of consumer car loans to Bank of America over the next five years. 
 The move follows downgrades in May of G.M.'s debt to a rating of below investment grade, or junk, by Standard & Poor's and Fitch. Those downgrades and rising interest rates have made it more expensive for G.M.'s financing division, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, to use bonds to raise money for car loans. But G.M.A.C., as the financing division is known, does have more palatable options available, like selling off large numbers of car loans in a relatively new kind of transaction known as a whole loan sale. 
The deal shows how G.M. can steer clear of bankruptcy for at least the next couple years. But it also shows that one of the nation's largest corporate borrowers does not have the broad flexibility to raise cash that it once did and has been forced to become more resourceful. 
 ''Doing less financing will erode G.M.A.C. profitability,'' said Robert Barry, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, in a note to investors. ''More whole loan sales will weight G.M.A.C.'s business towards origination and servicing, which is less profitable than origination, servicing and financing.''
 But Scott Sprinzen, a bond analyst who follows the auto industry for Standard & Poor's, said: ''It's definitely a positive in our view. Historically, they have been highly reliant on the bond market as a source of financing and opportunistically they should be able to continue to tap the bond market, but it's not going to be there to the same extent as a funding source as it has historically.''
 The deal with Bank of America helps to solidify G.M.'s rating at the current level, he said.
 G.M. stock rose $1.09, to $36.96 a share. Bank of America fell 13 cents, to $44.53. 
 Bank of America will initially buy $5 billion worth of loans and then up to $10 billion worth of loans annually over the next five years. G.M.A.C. originates more than $40 billion worth of auto loans in the United States every year, including leases, a spokeswoman said.
 In theory, the deal allows G.M.A.C. to focus on a core area of expertise for a finance company run by an automaker, originating car loans and servicing the contracts, and allows Bank of America to use its investment-grade credit rating to make a better rate of return than G.M.A.C. could have earned. 
 Sanjiv Khattri, G.M.A.C.'s executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in a statement that the deal ''allows G.M.A.C. to fulfill its strategic mission to finance more G.M. vehicles, without undue strain on the balance sheet.''
 Bob Stickler, a spokesman for Bank of America, said the bank ''has grown deposits faster than we've grown loans over the past several years.''
 ''This is an opportunity for us to put some of those deposits to work in consumer assets,'' he said.
 Christopher Wolfe, a senior analyst at Fitch, said: ''It's a positive development for G.M.A.C. liquidity. Certainly, to get that kind of size and long-term commitment from B. of A. helps them in their goal to evolve their business model.''
 At the same time, the deal does not repair G.M.'s relationship with the bond market. 
 Sean Egan, a credit analyst at Egan-Jones, an independent debt analysis firm, said, ''This does not address G.M.'s core problem, which is that their funding costs have increased dramatically over the last 18 months.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Automobiles; Credit

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Bank of America

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



530 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Learning From Lance

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is on leave until Aug. 10.

 BODY:
There is no doubt that Lance Armstrong's seventh straight victory in the Tour de France, which has prompted sportswriters to rename the whole race the Tour de Lance, makes him one of the greatest U.S. athletes of all time. What I find most impressive about Armstrong, besides his sheer willpower to triumph over cancer, is the strategic focus he brings to his work, from his prerace training regimen to the meticulous way he and his cycling team plot out every leg of the race. It is a sight to behold. I have been thinking about them lately because their abilities to meld strength and strategy -- to thoughtfully plan ahead and to sacrifice today for a big gain tomorrow -- seem to be such fading virtues in American life. 
 Sadly, those are the virtues we now associate with China, Chinese athletes and Chinese leaders. Talk to U.S. business executives and they'll often comment on how many of China's leaders are engineers, people who can talk to you about numbers, long-term problem-solving and the national interest -- not a bunch of lawyers looking for a sound bite to get through the evening news. America's most serious deficit today is a deficit of such leaders in politics and business. 
John Mack, the new C.E.O. at Morgan Stanley, initially demanded in the contract he signed June 30 that his total pay for the next two years would be no less than the average pay package received by the C.E.O.'s at Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns. If that average turned out to be more than $25 million, Mr. Mack was to be paid at least that much. He eventually backed off that demand after a howl of protest, but it struck me as the epitome of what is wrong in America today.
 We are now playing defense. A top C.E.O. wants to be paid not based on his performance, but based on the average of his four main rivals! That is like Lance Armstrong's saying he will race only if he is guaranteed to come in first or second, no matter what his cycling times are on each leg.
 I recently spent time in Ireland, which has quietly become the second-richest country in the E.U., first by going through some severe belt-tightening that meant everyone had to sacrifice, then by following that with a plan to upgrade the education of its entire work force, and a strategy to recruit and induce as many global high-tech companies and researchers as possible to locate in Ireland. The Irish have a plan. They are focused. They have mobilized business, labor and government around a common agenda. They are playing offense.
 Wouldn't you think that if you were president, after you'd read the umpteenth story about premier U.S. companies, like Intel and Apple, building their newest factories, and even research facilities, in China, India or Ireland, that you'd summon the top U.S. business leaders to Washington to ask them just one question: ''What do we have to do so you will keep your best jobs here? Make me a list and I will not rest until I get it enacted.''
 And if you were president, and you had just seen more suicide bombs in London, wouldn't you say to your aides: ''We have got to reduce our dependence on Middle East oil. We have to do it for our national security. We have to do it because only if we bring down the price of crude will these countries be forced to reform. And we should want to do it because it is clear that green energy solutions are the wave of the future, and the more quickly we impose a stringent green agenda on ourselves, the more our companies will lead innovation in these technologies.''
 Instead, we are about to pass an energy bill that, while it does contain some good provisions, will make no real dent in our gasoline consumption, largely because no one wants to demand that Detroit build cars that get much better mileage. We are just feeding Detroit the rope to hang itself. It's assisted suicide. I thought people went to jail for that? 
 And if you were president, would you really say to the nation, in the face of the chaos in Iraq, that ''if our commanders on the ground say we need more troops, I will send them,'' but that they had not asked? It is not what the generals are asking you, Mr. President -- it is what you are asking them, namely: ''What do you need to win?'' Because it is clear we are not winning, and we are not winning because we have never made Iraq a secure place where normal politics could emerge.
 Oh, well, maybe we have the leaders we deserve. Maybe we just want to admire Lance Armstrong, but not be Lance Armstrong. Too much work. Maybe that's the wristband we should be wearing: Live wrong. Party on. Pay later. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CYCLING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); LAWYERS (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%) United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends; Tour De France (Bicycle Race); Bicycles and Bicycling; Relocation of Business; United States Economy; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; Lance Armstrong

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) China; Ireland; Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



531 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: As August Recess Looms, Congress Finds High Gear 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Edmund L. Andrews, Carl Hulse and David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26 

 BODY:
In a mad dash to rack up some accomplishments before Congress leaves town for its five-week August recess, the Senate on Tuesday temporarily abandoned work on a defense policy bill and took up a measure, likely to pass and laden with political implications for Democrats, that will shield gun manufacturers from lawsuits.
 Those are just two of the many measures pending as lawmakers prepare to go home for their longest break of the year, traditionally a time for progress reports to constituents.
The House is preparing for a vote on a measure that would remove trade barriers between the United States and Central America, while both chambers are wrestling with how to handle an energy measure and a highway bill. A Senate committee, meanwhile, held its first hearing on Tuesday on competing proposals to create a guest worker program for illegal immigrants.
 Senator Bill Frist, the Republican leader, has said he may bring up a measure to permanently repeal the estate tax, a move that would make good on a promise to economic conservatives, who have made the repeal a high priority. 
 Mr. Frist also wants the Senate this week to pass a spending bill for the Department of the Interior, including more money to cover a shortfall in veterans' health care. House and Senate negotiators on Tuesday agreed to provide $1.5 billion; now the entire package needs to come before both chambers for a vote.
 ''Our schedule dictates addressing the gun liability bill, Department of Defense, Interior appropriations, energy and highways, all of which I plan on doing this week,'' Mr. Frist said. ''That is my plan, and I intend to fulfill it.''
 Here is a glimpse at some of what is on the Congressional plate:

Defense Policy
 The decision to quit work on the defense bill is likely to put off until after Labor Day politically charged fights over treatment of detainees and recommendations to close military bases. The White House has warned it will veto the measure if it contains provisions regulating the treatment of detainees or altering the recommendations of a base closing commission.
 Mr. Frist, seeking to avoid those fights, sought to cut off debate on the measure and bring it to a vote. But with Republicans like Senator John W. Warner of Virginia advocating debate on the detainees, and Senator John Thune of South Dakota pressing for a discussion of base closings, Mr. Frist fell 10 votes short of the 60 he needed, and moved to bring up the gun bill instead.
 That provoked an outcry from Democrats, who had intended to use the defense bill to promote a range of measures like increasing compensation for veterans and raising death benefits for war widows.
 ''I am at a loss as to how this Republican Senate majority sets its priorities,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, adding, ''For heaven's sakes, what is more important to this country: taking care of our troops, our veterans, their dependents? What is more important? Should the gun liability legislation trump this? The obvious answer is no. But it did.''

Gun Liability
 The Senate voted 66 to 32 to take up the gun measure, which would shield firearms manufacturers from lawsuits as long as they did not make or sell defective products. Despite the bipartisan support -- 12 Democrats joined 54 Republicans to approve opening debate on the bill -- the vote sparked an uproar from the bill's Democratic opponents.
 ''Senator Frist is hellbent on helping the gun industry,'' the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, told reporters, adding, ''This is his summer gift to a special interest group.''
 A similar bill failed in the Senate last year after the gun lobby, angered by Democratic amendments, instructed Republicans to withdraw their support. This year, with a strengthened Republican majority and the backing of a number of Democrats in Republican-leaning states, including Mr. Reid, its chances for passage are good, people on both sides say.
 ''The numbers are not on our side at this moment, but I hope that will change,'' Mr. Durbin said. 
 The bill would spare gun makers from lawsuits, filed by states and municipalities, that seek to hold them responsible for crimes committed with their products. So far, the industry has not lost any such suits, but officials at the National Rifle Association say they are especially concerned about a law passed by the District of Columbia and upheld by an appeals court that holds gun makers liable when their weapons are used in crimes.
 ''The D.C. law will put out of business every American firearms manufacturer,'' warned Wayne LaPierre, the association's executive vice president.
 Opponents say the threat is vastly overstated. ''There's been no rash of questionable jury awards,'' said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island.

Immigration
 Creating a guest worker program, which would affect an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now living in the United States, as well as others who seek to come here, is one of President Bush's top legislative priorities. So it was a big surprise on Tuesday when no one from the Bush administration showed up at the Senate Judiciary Committee's first hearing on the topic.
 ''I am very disappointed,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, a sponsor of one of the proposals, adding, ''This is an issue they should have been heavily involved in a long time ago.''
 Erin Healy, a White House spokeswoman, said that the president had not taken a position on either proposal, and that administration officials might testify at future hearings. ''The administration is consulting with Congress to discuss realistic, comprehensive immigration reform,'' Ms. Healy said. 
 Both Mr. McCain's proposal, and an alternative sponsored by Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, seek to fortify border security to prevent unauthorized immigrants from entering the country. 
 Mr. McCain's bill would allow illegal immigrants now in the United States to pay a fine to enter the guest work program, and eventually become eligible for citizenship. Mr. Cornyn's alternative would require illegal immigrants to return at least briefly to their native countries before gaining a temporary worker permit that would allow them re-entry for up to two years. They would then have to go abroad again for at least a year before being allowed to come back.
 Mr. Cornyn said the goal was to avoid rewarding lawbreakers, but Mr. McCain called the proposal ''totally impractical.''

Highway Bill
 House and Senate leaders continued to predict they could squeeze through a long-overdue $286 billion highway and mass transportation measure stuffed with local construction projects, but a deal remained elusive.
 Lawmakers and aides say the latest dispute to plague what is traditionally one of the most popular pieces of legislation is a labor issue surrounding mass transit. 
 The federal highway construction program has been kept running through a series of temporary extensions, and if Congress fails to act again before leaving for a monthlong vacation, it will have again missed much of the summer highway construction season.
 The bill stalled last year when Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders could not agree on the spending level, with the president threatening to veto any plan that exceeded $284 billion. Congress appears ready to move above that threshold, a prospect that Tuesday brought a letter to the president from prominent conservative leaders.
 ''Congress is nearing completion of a highway bill that will surely rank as one of the worst examples of pork-barrel spending of all time,'' said the letter. ''If, as expected, it exceeds the spending limits you proposed, we're counting on you to stand up for conservative economic principles by vetoing the bill.'' 

Estate Tax
 Senate Republicans have not given up trying to repeal the tax on estates, a cherished goal of many conservatives, but they do not yet have enough votes to succeed.
 The cost of the bill is high, about $290 billion over the next 10 years, according to the Joint Tax Committee of Congress. But that understates the true cost because full repeal would not occur until 2010. Over the 10 years after that, the costs would total more than $700 billion.
 Disparaged by Republicans as the ''death tax,'' the tax currently affects estates worth more than $1.5 million, less than 10 percent of all estates. But the issue has enormous political resonance, thanks in large part to campaigns over the past 20 years by small-business owners, big-business lobbyists, farmers and grass-roots organizations financed by some of the nation's richest families.
 Republican lawmakers and groups fighting for repeal of the estate tax are split between the tactics of purists, who insist they want nothing short of outright repeal, and pragmatists, who argue that they cannot get 60 Senate votes needed for full repeal, and want to cut a deal that would stop short of that.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jack Reed, right, with a staff member, Gregory McCarthy, before a Capitol Hill news conference yesterday in which Mr. Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, criticized proposed gun legislation. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MILITARY BASES (85%); TAX LAW (78%); VETO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FIREARMS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); GUN CONTROL (77%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); REFUGEES (74%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); NAVIES (72%); WILLS (72%); US LABOR DAY (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); CLOSINGS (65%) United States Armament and Defense; Prisoners of War; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); Firearms; Liability for Products; Suits and Litigation; Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Foreign Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Transportation; Roads and Traffic; Transit Systems; Wills and Estates; Taxation; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Military Bases and Installations

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: JACK REED (79%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); JOHN THUNE (58%); MARK WARNER (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); CUBA (74%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



532 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Small Trade Pact Becomes a Big Political Deal

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26 

 BODY:
It is a small trade agreement, affecting a volume of American exports about equal to those from New Jersey. 
 Yet as Congress rushes to begin its summer recess at the end of this week, President Bush will make a rare trip to Capitol Hill on Wednesday, seeking to prevent Republican defections and a possible defeat of his Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta.
Democrats, including many who voted for much bigger trade agreements, are overwhelmingly opposed. Despite intense pressure from Mr. Bush and from House leaders, fewer than half the Republicans have openly pledged their support. 
 Both Mr. Bush and his opponents agree on one point: a vote for Cafta is about more than the $32 billion in trade between the United States and six tiny countries in Central America and the Caribbean.
 For Mr. Bush, the trade pact is crucial to a broader agenda of reducing global trade barriers. White House officials say that if he were to lose this vote, the credibility of the United States in global trade negotiations would be destroyed and free trade would suffer a major setback.
 Most opponents of the trade pact argue that it amounts to a dangerous precedent that would encourage companies to shift more production to countries that offer poverty-level wages and few worker protections.
 White House officials and House Republican leaders have been scrambling to cut deals with one lawmaker after another to line up the 218 votes needed for final passage.
 Having promised new ''side agreements'' to protect textile companies, they have won over at least half of the Republicans from textile states who had been against the pact.
 Mr. Bush has also split lawmakers from the big sugar-producing states, even though the sugar industry remains adamantly opposed because the pact would allow slightly higher imports of sugar.
 ''The overall picture is that support for Cafta is growing,'' said Representative Adam H. Putnam, a Republican from Florida who had been opposed to the deal because of its effect on sugar producers. But now, he says, he is ''leaning in favor'' of it.
 Pork-barrel projects could provide the margin between victory and defeat. Even as rank-and-file House Republicans agonize over the trade bill, they are nervously awaiting a $286 billion transportation bill, including about $20 billion in specially ''earmarked'' highway and mass transit projects many lawmakers are counting on locally.
 The Central American trade pact, negotiated more than one year ago, would eliminate most trade restrictions between the United States and six countries -- Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
 Collectively, those countries account for about $32 billion in trade with the United States, about evenly divided between exports and imports. The trade pact would be the biggest since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 that lowered barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada.
 But the economic impact on the United States would be trivial. Collectively, the six countries represent the United States' 13th largest trading partner. 
 Most imports from Central America are already duty-free, under provisions of the Caribbean Basin Initiative. Supporters of the new pact say it would increase American exports, especially farm products, that currently face tariffs. 
 In the last week or so, administration officials have placed a heavier emphasis on the political and diplomatic reasons for approving the deal. 
 ''This is a gateway agreement,'' said Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, in an interview on Tuesday. ''If we cannot figure out how to get to yes on Cafta, it will hurt us in other trade negotiations and tie my hands in trying to open up other markets.''
 But enthusiasm for the pact is limited. Only about 100 Republicans -- fewer than half of the 231 Republicans in the House -- have publicly declared their support or said they were ''leaning in favor'' of it. Of 202 Democrats, more than 130 have declared their opposition and only five have said they will support it.
 Looming behind much of that sentiment is China, which already has the largest trade surplus with the United States of any country and is on track to break last year's record of $162 billion.
 House Republican leaders had hoped to assuage some of those worries by pushing through a bill that would make it easier to penalize subsidized imports from China. But on Tuesday, Democrats blocked an effort to pass the measure under a streamlined process intended for uncontroversial bills. 
 With House leaders hoping to schedule a vote on the Central American trade pact as early as Thursday, President Bush is stepping up his personal campaign. Mr. Bush met on Tuesday with a few Republicans at the White House to shore up support for the agreement, his seventh such meeting since the start of June. 
 White House officials said Mr. Bush had been meeting with groups of 5 to 14 lawmakers at a time. On Wednesday, Mr. Bush will go up to Congress himself and lay out his case to Republican lawmakers.
 But White House officials say the real work is going on one member at a time, now that administration officials believe they have offered their deals to broader interest groups like the textile and sugar industries.
 Estimates of the vote count vary widely. Democrats and Republicans both say the final vote is likely to be decided by four or five votes. Republican leaders have warned lawmakers to expect a ''late night.'' 
 Democrats concede that at least 10 members of their own party could vote for the bill. Representative Walter B. Jones, a North Carolina Republican who is fighting the pact because of his fears about the textile industry, predicted that at least two dozen Republicans would vote no. 
 Democrats charge that the pact would do little to require that Central American countries enforce minimal labor or environmental laws. The treaty does include a call that countries ''strive'' to meet international labor standards, and includes a provision that would impose fines on countries that fail to do so.
 But opponents say the requirements are toothless, because governments would essentially be paying the fines to themselves. The United States would not be allowed to retaliate with tariffs on imports from offending countries.
 ''This sets a precedent for labor standards and the environment and it begins laying down the design for globalization in the next century,'' said Representative Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who is leading the party's effort to line up votes against the pact. 
 Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican from Arizona, was quoted by Washington Trade Daily, a trade publication, as vowing to ''twist some Republican arms until they break in a thousand pieces.''
 White House officials have said much the same thing, acknowledging that the last votes are likely to be won with the most expensive deals. ''Failure,'' said one senior official, ''is not an option.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); SUGAR FARMING (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); SUGAR MFG (71%); FABRIC MILLS (69%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (68%); TEXTILES (64%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Free Ports and Trading Zones; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ADAM PUTNAM (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MEXICO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005



533 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Several Indicators Point to Brisk Economic Growth

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Sales of new homes and orders for durable goods rose faster than expected last month, the government reported yesterday, providing more indications that the economy is expanding at a brisk pace.
 Separately, the Federal Reserve said that the economic expansion had picked up steam and that inflation remained at bay in June and early July.
The central bank's beige book, a periodic survey on economic conditions, noted broad strength in housing, manufacturing, tourism, consumer spending and banking.
 New-home sales rose by 4 percent, to an annualized rate of 1.37 million in June, breaking a record set the month before, according to the Commerce Department. The latest figures come after a report earlier in the week that showed sales of existing homes also hit a record in June. 
 Economists were expecting 1.3 million new homes to be sold in June.
 Another report released yesterday indicated that home sales would probably continue at the current pace but were unlikely to set records. An index that gauges mortgage applications for home purchases and refinancings fell 5.8 percent for the week ending last Friday, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Most of the decline was in refinancings.
 ''The housing numbers are not surprising with mortgage rates as low as they are,'' said Anthony Chan, senior economist at JPMorgan Asset Management. ''But low interest rates won't last forever.'' 
 Mortgage rates, which for many Americans are the biggest factor in home purchase decisions, have inched up a little in recent weeks but remain at historic lows.
 The 30-year fixed mortgage rate averaged 5.73 percent last week, down from 5.98 percent this time last year but up from 5.66 percent earlier this month, according to Freddie Mac. 
 According to the Federal Reserve's survey, home sales remain strong nationally, but price and sales growth eased a bit in June and early July in some of the hottest markets, including New York, Washington, Florida and California.
 The scene on the nation's factory floors was also vibrant. The Commerce Department reported yesterday that orders for durable goods, products expected to last three or more years, were up 1.4 percent in June after posting a 6.4 percent gain in May.
 The increase beat economists' expectations of a 1 percent decline and came in spite of falling orders for aircraft and other transportation equipment, which make up a sizable and volatile part of the data. Excluding transportation, orders increased 2.6 percent. 
 Economists were particularly heartened to see a 3.8 percent increase in orders for big-ticket capital goods excluding transportation and military equipment. That means businesses are gaining enough confidence in the economic expansion to purchase equipment. Orders for computers and electronic equipment climbed 8.6 percent in June after a 1.5 percent gain in May.
 ''Businesses are going to start ramping up investment spending a little stronger than they did in the first quarter,'' said David Huether, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington.
 The Federal Reserve described manufacturing as ''generally upbeat,'' but it said job growth in the sector was still sluggish. In spite of rising prices for energy and building materials, the Federal Reserve said consumer and wholesale prices either fell slightly or remained unchanged across most of the country.
 Some of the growth in manufacturing appears tied to the housing boom. The Federal Reserve noted strong growth for producers of cement and other construction materials. Mr. Chan of JPMorgan said the increased durable goods orders might be tied partly to home buying. ''We want to buy new electronics for those new houses,'' he said.
 On Friday, the government will release its first estimate of the nation's gross domestic product in the second quarter. Economists on average expect the G.D.P. to rise at a 3.5 percent annual rate after a 3.8 percent increase in the first quarter.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Orders for durable goods, products that are expected to last for three years or more, like these lawn tractors outside a Lowe's store in Milwaukie, Ore., were up 1.4 percent in June. (Photo by Michael Rubenstein/Bloomberg News)Chart/Map: ''Most Regions Experience Modest Growth''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.MINNEAPOLISThe region's economy experienced ''solid growth,'' driven by an increase in consumer spending and real estate.SAN FRANCISCOIncludes Alaska and HawaiiEconomic activity continued to grow. Inflation for goods and services decreased. The labor market stabilized.CHICAGOConsumer spending, business investment and hiring ''increased modestly.'' Real estate was brisk.CLEVELANDBusinesses reported improved conditions across most industries. Retail sales increased, led by auto sales.BOSTONEconomic conditions continue to improve bolstered by an increase in manufacturing and real estate.NEW YORKEconomic growth was moderate. Real estate was ''sturdy,'' and New York City's financial industry strengthened.PHILADELPHIAAuto sales, manufacturing and retail sales experienced growth. Banks reported an increase in home equity lending.RICHMOND, VA.Stimulated by growth in the service industry, economic activity increased. Real estate was robust.ATLANTABusiness conditions remained stable with recent tropical storms having only a minor impact on the overall economy.ST. LOUISHome sales increased while commercial real estate ''remained soft.'' Retail and auto sales were mixed.KANSAS CITY, MO.Manufacturing, retail sales and commercial real estate reported expansion. The labor market strengthened.DALLASEconomic growth exceeded expectations, ''driven by strong construction and energyrelated activity.''(Source by Bloomberg News)Map of the United States highlighting above mentioned cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%) United States Economy; Housing; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



534 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Holds Back Report on Car Fuel Efficiency

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 27 

 BODY:
With Congress poised for a final vote on the energy bill, the Environmental Protection Agency made an 11th-hour decision Tuesday to delay the planned release of an annual report on fuel economy. 
 But a copy of the report, embargoed for publication Wednesday, was sent to The New York Times by a member of the E.P.A. communications staff just minutes before the decision was made to delay it until next week. The contents of the report show that loopholes in American fuel economy regulations have allowed automakers to produce cars and trucks that are significantly less fuel-efficient, on average, than they were in the late 1980's.
Releasing the report this week would have been inopportune for the Bush administration, its critics said, because it would have come on the eve of a final vote in Congress on energy legislation six years in the making. The bill, as it stands, largely ignores auto mileage regulations. 
 The executive summary of the copy of the report obtained by The Times acknowledges that ''fuel economy is directly related to energy security,'' because consumer cars and trucks account for about 40 percent of the nation's oil consumption. But trends highlighted in the report show that carmakers are not making progress in improving fuel economy, and environmentalists say the energy bill will do little to prod them. 
 ''Something's fishy when the Bush administration delays a report showing no improvement in fuel economy until after passage of their energy bill, which fails to improve fuel economy,'' said Daniel Becker, the Sierra Club's top global warming strategist. ''It's disturbing that despite high gas prices, an oil war and growing concern about global warming pollution, most automakers are failing to improve fuel economy.''
 Eryn Witcher, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., said the timing of the release of the report had nothing to do with the energy bill deliberations. 
 ''We are committed to sharing our scientific studies with the public in the most comprehensive and understandable format possible,'' she said. ''Issue experts are reviewing the fuel economy data and we look forward to providing a summary of the information next week.''
 Some of what the report says reaffirms what has long been known. Leaps in engine technology over the last couple of decades have been mostly used to make cars faster, not more fuel-efficient, and the rise of sport utility vehicles and S.U.V.-like pickup trucks has actually sapped efficiency. The average 2004 model car or truck got 20.8 miles per gallon, about 6 percent less than the 22.1 m.p.g. of the average new vehicle sold in the late 1980's, according to the report. 
 At the same time, while General Motors and the Ford Motor Company are the most common targets of environmental groups, the E.P.A. report shows that several foreign automakers have had the sharpest declines in recent fuel economy performance as they move aggressively into the truck market. 
 The average 2004 model sold by Nissan, Hyundai and Volkswagen was at least a half-mile a gallon less fuel-efficient than in the previous model year, a sharp drop. 
 ''It's appalling that Nissan, V.W. and Hyundai are accelerating in reverse,'' Mr. Becker said.
 Kyle Bazemore, a Nissan spokesman, said the company's new large pickup truck, the Titan, and new large S.U.V.'s, like the Armada, clearly affected its overall results. 
 ''In '03, we didn't have the Titan and Armada,'' he said. ''We've entered into new markets, but we feel we are doing it responsibly.''
 John Krafcik, vice president of product development and corporate strategy at Hyundai, pointed out that his company sells relatively few S.U.V.'s but has recently increased its offerings. ''Car by car, we're improving fuel economy on every model in our range,'' he said. ''That's a more appropriate way to look at it.'' 
 David Friedman, a research director at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group, disagreed. 
 ''The 8.5 million barrels a day that American cars and trucks use have to do with the vehicles on the road, not the model-by-model comparisons,'' he said. ''What matters to our oil consumption is the fuel economy of the fleet on the road.''
 Of the eight major automakers examined in the report, only G.M., Toyota and Honda showed increases in fuel efficiency in the 2004 model year, the most recent year for which hard sales data is available. Ford had the lowest mileage of the group. Honda, which does not sell the heaviest kinds of trucks, had the best overall mileage.
 Some foreign companies do not even trouble themselves to follow fuel economy regulations. BMW, in fact, has paid more than $70 million in fines since the 2000 model year for noncompliance. The company has argued that American fuel regulations, which are taken as an average over a company's entire fleet, put luxury makers at a disadvantage. 
 ''We sell the ultimate driving machine and people expect us to offer them the kind of BMW vehicles they really want to drive,'' said Dave Buchko, a spokesman. 
 Backers of the energy bill have said it will broadly change the nation's energy policy. 
 Representative Joe L. Barton, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said this week that ''it is a darn good bill, and it is going to help this country, and the sooner we get it done, the better.''
 Environmentalists disagree. 
 ''It effectively does nothing to cut our dependence on oil,'' Mr. Friedman said. 
 While the proposed bill, as it stands, does offer limited tax credits for hybrid electric cars and advanced diesels, environmental groups object to extending mileage credits for vehicles that can be filled up with an ethanol blend instead of gasoline; many consumers who purchase such vehicles are not even aware of the feature.
 The E.P.A. report illustrates what has happened as the industry has poured resources into S.U.V.'s, minivans and family-oriented pickup trucks, vehicle types with less stringent fuel economy requirements than cars. The average new vehicle weight has risen to about 4,000 pounds today, from about 3,200 in the early 1980's. At the same time, the horsepower of an average engine has roughly doubled over two decades, trimming four seconds from the time it takes for the average vehicle to accelerate from zero to 60.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Bigger, Faster and Less Economical''Environmental Protection Agency data show that automakers have built cars and trucks that are more powerful and heavier, but less fuel-efficient.Data are averages for light vehiclesGraphs track 0 to 60 time, vehicle weight and fuel economy since 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Trucks and Trucking; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



535 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Futuro Flashback: The Prefab From Another Planet 

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
RICHARD PISANI caught his first glimpse of a Futuro house beside a lake in Illinois in the early 1980's, outlined against the setting sun. ''I was just out cruising and there it was in some subdivision,'' Mr. Pisani said, ''like a prop from a sci-fi movie.''
 For the next 15 years, he saw the house often, and could not get its flying-saucer form out of his mind. Finally, in 1997, he bought it, paying a tenth of the $20,000 asking price. Using a flatbed truck, he moved it to the yard behind his house in nearby Danvers, Ill., and turned it into a media room. 
In the process, he joined a growing network of Futuro owners and fans who have dedicated themselves to celebrating and preserving this strange prefabricated house, which looks like it came not just from an earlier decade, but even from another planet. By 2004, in fact, he had become one of the world's foremost authorities on the fate of the Futuros, numbering perhaps as many as 100, that were built between 1968 and 1978. 
 The circular house, 11 feet high and 26 feet across, was designed by Matti Suuronen, a Finnish architect, in 1968. A hatch door in its lower half opened down to reveal steps, like the door of a small airplane, and led into a room outfitted with six plastic bed-chair combinations and a central fireplace slab, as well as a kitchenette and a bathroom. Photographs from the time make the house look like a place where the Teletubbies might live, with Barbarella as a frequent houseguest.
 Mika Taanila, a Finnish filmmaker who helped start the Futuro revival with his 1998 documentary ''Futuro: A New Stance for Tomorrow,'' said he became interested in the houses because they seemed to represent the mood of the late 1960's so precisely. They reflected the era's ''economic boom and optimism about the future,'' he said in a telephone interview from Finland. ''Suuronen could not have come up with the idea 15 years earlier or 10 years later.'' 
 Part of that optimism was about the potential for plastics and prefabrication to radically lower the cost of housing, in the revolutionary spirit of 1968. The Futuro, which was made of polyester plastic and fiberglass and which sold in the United States for between $12,000 and $14,000, was one of many experimental plastic houses at the time. It came in 16 pieces that could easily be moved by truck or helicopter and set up in a couple of days. 
 But the house has captured contemporary imaginations more for its look than for its idealistic history. It embodies a strain of modernism that can be seen either as visionary or kitschy, but that certainly stands apart from the sober elegance of much mid-century modern design. Owners of surviving Futuros typically decorate them with lava lamps, plastic chairs and 1970's television sets shaped like spacesuit helmets.
 ''The persistence of this sort of vision of the future is amazing,'' said Christopher Mount, the director of exhibitions and public programs at the Parsons School of Design, who has curated several shows on Scandinavian design. ''This was a vision that included Panton furniture and '2001: A Space Odyssey,' orange plastic and silver jump suits,'' Mr. Mount said. ''You could look at the Futuro house as a giant Panton chair.''
 Mr. Pisani, who sells and installs home gutters, became fascinated with Futuros, and began researching their history after he bought his own. 
 ''It made me feel good to know that wasn't just some oddball piece of junk but part of a serious attempt at mass housing,'' he said. 
 Last year, he set up a Web site, futuro-house.net, to find and document all the surviving Futuros in the world. He estimates that there are about 60, in various states of repair and disrepair.
 The list of confirmed and suspected Futuro locations on Mr. Pisani's Web site has grown as word about the site has spread. The country with the most Futuros seems to be New Zealand, with about a dozen. Several have been noted along the coasts of both Carolinas, and there are Futuros in the vastness of west Texas. One, in Pensacola, Fla., survived Hurricane Ivan ''because of the aerodynamics of flying saucers,'' Mr. Pisani said. 
 Mr. Pisani's own Futuro has become something of a tourist destination. In the summer, leaves hide it from passers-by on nearby streets, but in the winter, thanks to increasing awareness of the Futuro, visitors often seek out his home at inconvenient times. ''Last Christmas,'' he recalled, ''some crazy guy came roaring up my driveway -- at 2:30 in the morning.''
 Mr. Suuronen, who now lives in retirement outside Helsinki, built the first Futuro as a vacation house for a friend. He never planned on mass production, but the attention the house attracted led the Finnish company Polykem to market the design in 1968. Leonard Fruchter, a Philadelphia developer, bought the American licensing rights and began making them in the United States the next year.
 The houses quickly attracted attention. An article in The New York Times on the day of the first moon landing announced the Futuro's arrival in America (or ''on Earth,'' as the headline put it). Playboy magazine featured a Futuro as a bachelor pad in a photo layout. 
 In Europe, the Swedish air force bought several Futuros to house technicians at remote radar stations, and the Soviet government contracted to purchase several more to help meet the needs of the planned 1980 Olympics. But the oil shocks of 1973, which sent the price of plastic skyrocketing, along with changing fashions, helped put a stop to the growth of the Futuro's market. Polykem stopped making the houses in 1978. 
 Then, in the early 1990's, the Futuro began its comeback, when European artists started using the houses in installations. In 1998, Mika Taanila brought out his film, and four years later he and a co-author, Marko Home, published a coffee table book, ''Futuro: Tomorrow's House from Yesterday'' (Desura, 2002). 
 ''I still get quite a lot of e-mail, mostly from people who would like to buy one,'' said Mr. Taanila. ''Do I know any that are for sale? Some wonder if production might be restarted.'' 
 Mr. Suuronen, now in his early 70's, could not be reached for this article. But Marko Tandefelt, the project director and curator at the Finnish Cultural Institute in New York, said that the architect is a bit perplexed by the renewed fame of his creation. 
 Mr. Taanila says that Mr. Suuronen, whom he speaks to from time to time, is also happy. ''He is very flattered and surprised because this is a totally new generation interested in his idea. But he is also puzzled what to do with all this newborn interest.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOOK WHAT LANDED -- Richard Pisani, far left, owns one of the remaining Futuros, designed by Matti Suuronen, a Finnish architect, in 1968. He uses it as a home theater. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 INSTANT SPACE -- Richard Pisani, left, parked a Futuro near his house in Danvers, Ill. Futuros, a relic of the 1960's, originally came in kits, with 16 parts and porthole windows for peering out -- and in. Below, closing the hatch. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (73%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (72%); HELICOPTERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%) Housing; Prefabricated Buildings

PERSON: Phil Patton; Richard Pisani; Matti Suuronen

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Danvers (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



536 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Insurance For Terrorism Gains Support

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Republicans and Democrats in Congress expressed support yesterday for continuing a federal program that pays most of the insurance losses in a terrorist attack, but increasing the share covered by insurance companies.
 Many of those speaking at a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises argued for modifying the program, which was adopted after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. But lawmakers made it clear that they would forgo radical changes to assure that there was no interruption in terrorism coverage when the current program is scheduled to expire at the end of the year. 
Opening the hearing, Representative Richard H. Baker, the chairman of the subcommittee and a Louisiana Republican, said he had concluded that without the government program there would be harmful ''market consequences.'' 
 Construction and real estate companies have said they could not receive financing without assurances that losses in a terrorism attack would be reimbursed and private insurers say they cannot provide the coverage without government backing. Therefore, said Representative Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania, the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee, maintaining the federal program was ''critical to protecting our economic security.''
 In late June, the Treasury Department recommended against continuing the program, contending that it eliminated an incentive for insurers to develop a free-market solution. House and Senate Republican leaders agreed. But within a few days, the Treasury department and Republican leaders suggested that a compromise could probably be reached to extend the program for at least two years. 
 The administration and Republican leaders in Congress are arguing for increased costs for the insurers and a reduction in the range of coverage. But in the hearing yesterday, several lawmakers and industry representatives contended that coverage should be expanded to include workers covered by group life insurance. 
 ''We need to insure the people inside the buildings and not just the buildings themselves,'' Mr. Kanjorski said. Some industry representatives also argued against ending coverage for general liability and for commercial vehicles, especially cargo trucks. 
 Under the current program, the insurance industry is required to pay the first $30 billion in losses. The government would then pay 90 percent of additional losses up to $100 billion. There was no agreement yesterday on how much to increase the insurers' share, but Mr. Baker urged that insurers be required to eventually repay losses covered by the government. Lawmakers and industry representatives said a Treasury proposal that would raise the threshold for the program to take effect to $500 million from $5 million was unmanageable for small and midsize insurers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INSURANCE (92%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%) Terrorism; Insurance; Law and Legislation; Terrorism

PERSON: PAUL E KANJORSKI (59%) Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



537 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: MILITARY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: 2 Panels Cite U.S. Problems In Stabilizing After Combat 

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27 

 BODY:
Two new studies by independent panels are harshly critical of the way the United States government prepares for stabilization missions after major combat, such as in Iraq, and they place the blame on an interagency process that does little to harness the various departments and agencies for unified action.
 One study, released Wednesday by the Council on Foreign Relations, lays out a series of steps that should be taken by the military and the government in order to plan for the postwar period with the same degree of seriousness given to planning for war.
Another report, to be released today by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, proposes measures to assure that efforts of all government departments be coordinated and more effective -- similar to the way the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986 ordered the four armed services to move toward joint military operations.
 The council study, ''In the Wake of War: Improving U.S. Post-Conflict Capabilities,'' was led by two former national security advisers, Brent Scowcroft and Samuel R. Berger. The council, based in New York, is a non-partisan research organization that studies foreign policy. 
 It urges the president and the secretary of defense to make clear to the armed services that stability operations ''are a strategic priority,'' and that such missions are as critical to national security as major combat.
 The National Security Council must, in a more muscular way, establish policy and coordinate civilian and military actions in these postconflict missions, the report added. The State Department should take the lead in all civilian efforts of stabilization and reconstruction missions, with the United States Agency for International Development in charge of those day-to-day operations on the ground.
 The report also urges the United States to push for the creation of a multilateral reconstruction trust fund of about $1 billion to be managed by the Group of 8 member nations.
 The report notes that the military's proven ability for speedy combat offensives now outpaces the ability to carry out reconstruction plans, and the authors warn that, in cases like Iraq, it might take more troops to stabilize and rebuild a nation than it does to topple its leadership.
 The report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, an independent public policy research organization with headquarters in Washington, urges a more integrated national security apparatus and promotes broad institutional changes within the executive branch.
 The lead authors, Clark A. Murdock and Michele A. Flournoy, urge a more active role for the National Security Council, arguing that it should be recast ''from its traditional role of preparing decisions for the president to more active involvement in ensuring that presidential intent is realized'' through government actions.
 The authors caution that the National Security Council should not be involved in conducting operations, but recommend that a new position of senior director be created for ''developing the presidential guidance for complex contingency operations and ensuring that interagency planning for these operations is fully integrated.''
 Most of the responsibility for conducting these operations now rests within the Pentagon, but other agencies are capable of contributing modest efforts and small numbers of personnel. 
 The report advocates that other departments and agencies improve their capacities for contributing to such missions and says that the creation of a State Department Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization was an important step.
 It also urges that the Agency for International Development strengthen its capabilities to work on post-conflict reconstruction and proposes creating a new Training Center for Interagency and Coalition Operations to assist in the effort.
 In addition, the report urges the creation of rapidly deployable crisis planning teams, drawn from personnel throughout the government, for interagency mission planning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) Council on Foreign Relations; Center for Strategic and International Studies

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



538 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Announces Big Surplus, With New Plan for West Side Site 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and CHARLES V. BAGLI; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Buoyed by an unexpected surge in tax revenue, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced yesterday that it would have a surplus of $833 million this year and that it would consider using the money to create a giant platform over its West Side railyards, which it could then sell to developers for office and apartment towers. 
 Despite the surplus, the authority indicated that it still planned to raise fares and tolls in 2007 and 2009.
The windfall represents a remarkable -- but probably short-lived -- reversal of fortunes for the authority, which in February had projected a tiny surplus for the year and large deficits starting next year. It now predicts that a combination of soaring tax revenue and low interest rates will add $493 million, all of it not previously anticipated, to its coffers by December.
 The authority also agreed to negotiate with the developer Forest City Ratner on its plans for a basketball arena and apartment buildings at another railyard it owns in Downtown Brooklyn. [Page B1.] 
 After months at the center of one of the city's most contentious land-use disputes in decades, the authority conceded yesterday that its earlier plan to sell the West Side railyard rights to the Jets to build a stadium was, for practical purposes, dead.
 Now, instead of looking for a developer with the resources and confidence to invest an estimated $350 million and nearly three years to build the platform, the authority is looking to do the job itself. Doing so would attract more bidders for the property and, presumably, a higher price.
 But that could be a controversial strategy in an election year. The City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who is running for mayor, called on the authority to use the surplus to avert or reduce the projected fare increases. ''The M.T.A. should put first things first: making the trains run on time, not building a new headquarters,'' he said. 
 The authority's executive director, Katherine N. Lapp, said that with a platform over the train yards, control of the 13-acre site could be sold to a developer for $1 billion or more. The money would finance construction and renovation projects in the authority's subway, bus and commuter railroad networks. 
 ''There are a confluence of circumstances that I would argue exist once in a lifetime,'' Ms. Lapp said, comparing the proposal to the development of Rockefeller Center in the 1930's and Lincoln Center in the 1960's. ''It's creative. It's bold.'' 
 Under the plan, the authority would also build a new headquarters building on the platform, allowing it to vacate and then sell its current headquarters in three buildings on Madison Avenue. The site, between 44th and 45th Streets, sits in the city's premier office district.
 Ms. Lapp also presented a more fiscally conservative alternative to the real estate proposal: Using $481 million -- the $493 million in unexpected surplus, minus $12 million for security and service improvements -- to pay down part of a $2.2 billion unfunded pension liability that accrued over decades. That plan would save $38 million in annual pension-plan contributions. 
 The development proposal is riskier, but it could be a lucrative move, and it appears to be entirely within the authority's powers. Experts said it would not require legislative approval. Ms. Lapp said the authority would work closely with the city to determine the best uses for the site, which is in a neighborhood of brick warehouses, tenements and factories that was recently rezoned to allow for larger buildings.
 Most of the $833 million projected surplus can be attributed to two sources. The authority expects to collect $365 million more than it predicted in February from taxes on mortgage recordings and on the transfer of commercial properties. It also has identified $128 million in unexpected savings on debt service, because interest rates have remained low. The rest of the surplus comes from a combination of new state revenues, restated financial results and other accounting adjustments.
 Neither phenomenon is expected to last, and the authority projects that its revenue from taxes and subsidies will be largely flat through 2009. ''These transactional taxes are extremely unstable,'' said the city's budget director, Mark Page, who sits on the board. ''These things historically are always cyclical. It is extremely hard to predict when the cycle is going to turn down on you.''
 The authority expects a deficit of $194 million in 2007, rising steeply to $1.5 billion in 2009 without planned fare increases and budget cuts.
 The city has committed $2 billion to extend the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 11th Avenue and 34th Street, across the street from the railyards and at one end of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. In building a new headquarters, the authority could use its power to override local zoning laws and avoid the city's lengthy review process. 
 News of the surplus and of the authority's proposals appeared to take city officials by surprise. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was circumspect about the windfall.
 ''Nobody is going to build anything on the West Side without the city being part of it,'' he said. ''Nobody's sure yet what will go over there.''
 Another mayoral candidate, Fernando Ferrer, asked, ''Why is the M.T.A. sitting on piles of money while New York City subways remain vulnerable to terrorist attack and in need of basic repair?'' 
 In 2003, the authority raised the cost of a base ride to $2 from $1.50, and this year, it raised the price of unlimited-ride fare cards. Asked if any part of the surplus should be used to avoid future fare increases, the authority's chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, was noncommittal. ''There are 25 things we're talking about, that possibly being one of them,'' he said, referring to the proposal. ''The plan is just for information.''
 A longtime advocate for subway riders, Gene Russianoff of the New York Public Interest Research Group, seemed positive about the idea, saying it was ''worth debating.''
 Robert D. Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, a major civic organization, said he expected a vigorous debate on the proposals. ''Whether or not the M.T.A. is going to become a quasi-developer is a very important issue,'' he said. ''There is a visceral sense that we want their time and energy focused on running a transit system, not developing real property -- but if that's the only way to maximize the value of their assets, it's something we should look at.'' 
 A small part of this year's surplus, $12 million, will be used for immediate improvements in service and security, in a reflection of recent concerns about subway delays and the possibility of a terrorist attack.
 The authority announced that it would spend $2 million this year to begin an ''intensive cleaning initiative'' for subway stations, tracks and equipment; to add morning and early afternoon service on the Long Island Rail Road and late-night service on the Metro-North Railroad, and to improve rail and bus connections for Staten Island commuters.
 The authority also plans to add $10 million this year in security spending. The money will pay for police overtime, a public awareness campaign and more platform conductors, who are trained to evacuate riders onto the tracks in an emergency.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Improved Outlook''The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's new budget estimate is considerably more favorable than February's.Graph tracks Closing cash balance in millions* since 2004. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); TRAINS (89%); MAYORS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BASKETBALL (53%) Area Planning and Renewal; Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Tolls; Election Issues ; Mayors; Elections

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%) Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Charles V Bagli; Gifford (Speaker) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



539 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: DIPLOMACY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld, in Baghdad, Presses the Iraqis On Insurgency and Writing Constitution

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 27 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld pressed Iraqi political leaders on Wednesday to settle their differences and agree on a new constitution quickly, and to exert more influence with Syria and Iran to force them to end support for the insurgency. 
 Speaking to reporters en route to an unannounced visit here, Mr. Rumsfeld laid out a blunt prescription for what Iraqi leaders must do in the coming weeks and months to ensure that a stable, secure and popularly elected government takes root, and to allow American troops to begin to withdraw.
 His remarks amounted to perhaps the broadest attempt by a senior Bush administration official to prod Iraq's fractious mix of Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish leaders to move forward on political, economic and security fronts. Previously, the White House followed a hands-off policy, emphasizing Iraqi sovereignty. 
 Delivered just two days after the new American ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, injected himself into the writing of the constitution, Mr. Rumsfeld's comments also underscored the administration's keen desire to maintain a political process that American officials say is essential to defeat the insurgency and to establish an Iraqi government with public support. 
 Although the administration has been pushing for a strong central government, Iraqi officials involved in drafting the constitution say the final document will call for a federal system, with a weak center and powerful regional councils. [Page A8.] 
 Mr. Rumsfeld declined to say when conditions would permit that drawdown to start. But the top American commander here, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., reaffirmed to reporters his own statement in March that the Pentagon could make ''some fairly substantial reductions'' in troops by next spring if the political process remained on track and Iraqi forces assumed more responsibility for securing the country. 
 After meeting with Mr. Rumsfeld, Iraq's prime minister, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, said there was no firm timetable for an American withdrawal but he said Iraqis ''desire speed in that regard.'' He said that as Iraqi forces improved, they would replace American troops around the country. 
 Security was just one of the broad themes that Mr. Rumsfeld outlined, first to reporters traveling with him and then to Mr. Jaafari and other top Iraqi officials, said a senior Pentagon aide, speaking on condition of anonymity because the meeting with the Iraqis was private. 
 First and foremost, Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters, was the need to stick to a political timetable that calls for Iraqi officials to write a constitution by Aug. 15. ''We don't want any delays,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said. ''They're simply going to have to make the compromises necessary and get on with it.'' He added, ''That's what politics is about.'' 
 Any delay would be ''very harmful to the momentum that's necessary,'' he said. ''We have troops on the ground. People get killed.''
 Iraqis are scheduled to vote on a constitution by October and, if it is ratified, to elect a government by December. But the committee writing the constitution has been snarled by disagreements over regional autonomy and women's rights, as well as the threatened withdrawal of its Sunni Arab contingent after two members were fatally shot July 19 on a Baghdad street. 
 The chairman of the committee, Sheik Humam Hamoudi, has said repeatedly that the document will be delivered on time, and reiterated that promise in a news briefing today. A full, though not final, draft of the constitution was published Tuesday in a Baghdad newspaper. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld renewed his criticism of Syria and Iran for harboring the financiers and organizers of the insurgency, and for not clamping down on fighters entering Iraq from their territory. But he also urged Iraqi leaders to be more aggressive in halting what he called ''harmful'' behavior by Syria and Iran.
 ''They need to demonstrate that they're a big country, they're a wealthy country, that they'll be around a long time, and they don't really like it,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, adding that he would leave specific actions up to the Iraqis. 
 He also called on the Iraqi government to assume greater responsibility over time for the 15,000 detainees in American custody in Iraq, to allocate enough money in future Iraqi budgets to field security forces capable of replacing many of the 22,000 foreign allied forces that plan to leave Iraq by Dec. 31 and to improve cooperation between the Iraqi Defense Ministry and Interior Ministry to enhance the combat readiness of Iraq's 170,000 military and paramilitary police forces. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld also said that the United States would help Iraq secure reconstruction aid from international donors.
 It was unclear how Mr. Jaafari, the prime minister, responded to each of Mr. Rumsfeld's half-dozen themes, but he seemed to share the secretary's sense of urgency. At a brief news conference with Mr. Rumsfeld, he outlined his thinking about the security forces and detainee operations but did not mention -- and was not asked about -- progress in drafting the constitution. 
 Earlier on Wednesday aboard a C-17 cargo plane from Tajikistan, Mr. Rumsfeld was asked whether his comments, which he ticked off from notes, suggested that the administration's efforts in Iraq were approaching the homestretch. ''Oh, I wouldn't say that,'' he said. ''I just have an obligation to look ahead.'' 
 As is his policy in public comments, Mr. Rumsfeld would not say when Iraq would be safe enough to allow American troops to withdraw. He said drawing down troops hinged on the size and strength of the insurgency, cooperation from Syria and Iran, the ability of the Iraqi security forces and Iraqi public support for the new government. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld spent Wednesday in a whirlwind, nine-hour visit here that included a town hall meeting with American troops in Balad, north of Baghdad, a strategy luncheon with top American commanders, briefings with Iraqi political leaders and a live-fire demonstration by an Iraqi counterterrorism unit. 
 It was Mr. Rumsfeld's 10th trip to Iraq since Saddam Hussein's government's fell in April 2003, and his 3rd this year. 
 Joining Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Khalilzad, the new United States ambassador, at a brief news conference, General Casey painted an upbeat picture of steadily improving Iraqi security forces pitted against an insurgency that he said was neither weakening nor gaining strength. 
 ''I wouldn't say that it's necessarily a stalemate,'' General Casey said. ''Insurgencies need to progress to survive, and this insurgency is not progressing. There's been a change in tactics, to more violent, more visible attacks against civilians. That's a no-win strategy for the insurgents.'' 
 Mr. Rumsfeld made his most detailed remarks aboard his plane en route to Iraq. 
 The United States is overseeing 15,000 detainees, a number that has climbed sharply in recent months as more insurgents have been are captured but a smaller percentage have been released, he said. 
 American forces run detention centers at Abu Ghraib prison outside Baghdad, Camp Bucca near Basra and Camp Cropper, a site near Baghdad International Airport for high-value detainees, including Mr. Hussein. But the prison population is growing so quickly that the United States will soon open a fourth major prison in northern Iraq, Mr. Rumsfeld said. The prison operations are requiring increasing numbers of American military police and prison guards, who are being diverted from other jobs in Iraq, he said. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld called on Iraq to provide more trainees ''so that as soon as it is feasible, wecan transfer the responsibility for Iraqi prisoners to the Iraqi government.'' 
 In another indicator that Mr. Rumsfeld is looking to an evolving relationship with Iraq, he said American lawyers continue to work with their Iraqi counterparts on legal agreements covering American forces in Iraq once a new government takes control in January. 
 Mr. Jaafari said he had complained to General Casey about the recent deaths of Iraqi civilians at the hands of the American military, either in accidents or raids against insurgents. General Casey said the military was reviewing reported Iraqi civilian deaths in the last 60 days, had ordered refresher training for American troops to avoid civilian casualties and was considering broadening the compensation that the United States pays the families of Iraqi civilians killed as a result of American military operations.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, left, with Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, right, of Iraq yesterday after their meeting in Baghdad. (Pool Photograph by Joe Raedle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%) Constitutions; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SYRIA (92%) Iraq; Syria; Iran

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



540 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Cash Flow Across Border Starts to Get More Savvy

BYLINE: By BETSY CUMMINGS

 BODY:
Some weeks, Jose Edgardo Andrande makes less than $200. Other weeks, his pay tops $1,200. ''But then it goes down to $500'' the next week, said Mr. Andrande, 42, a job hopper from El Salvador who, for 24 years, has shuffled among delivery, electrician, restaurant and construction jobs in the United States.
 Despite the fluctuations, one financial transaction has remained constant. Each month he sends $700 home to support his two sons and mother in his native San Salvador.
 As the Hispanic population in the United States continues to surge, rising 10 percent to 41.3 million last year, from 37.4 million in 2002, something else is surging along with it: the money, known as remittances, that day laborers who work in America's restaurant kitchens and mow suburbia's lawns send back home. The cash flow was $32 billion in 2004, up from $28 billion in 2002. 
 And therein lies an opportunity for entrepreneurs.
 A cottage industry has sprung up in recent years of companies that not only transfer immigrant workers' money to their homelands cheaply, but also offer them a way to establish credit in the United States and learn how to make their money work harder.
 Mr. Andrande is a recent convert. He uses Mi Pueblo, a unit of the Microfinance International Corporation, a Washington company created in 2003 to help immigrants leverage the power of the remittances they send to their home countries and bolster their earning and investment potential in the United States.
 Last September, Microfinance started Mi Pueblo to offer account, money transfer, credit, loan and money management services to immigrants from Latin America. ''The motive of immigrants is to come here, get a job and to work hard and send money back home to support their family,'' said Atsumasa Tochisako, Microfinance's chief executive. ''But, unfortunately, in a developed country like the U.S., there is not an appropriate financial service infrastructure prepared to serve those immigrant people.''
 As Microfinance International opens accounts, currently with Salvadorans only, through a pilot program in Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Washington, it joins a growing contingent of smaller financial institutions, from credit unions to independent banks, that are taking an increasingly larger piece of the remittance pie.
 Microfinance International's four shops in the Washington area, for example, recently were conducting 1,500 transactions a month, with an average remittance of $250. But the company says transactions have been increasing recently, by 20 percent a week at each shop, fueled by radio advertisements and fliers distributed in Hispanic neighborhoods as well as by word of mouth. The company projects revenue of $2 million this year and $10 million next year and hopes to become profitable by 2007.
 Mr. Tochisako said the remittance market was barely tapped in the United States. Moreover, he hopes to transform remittances from being mainly a means of support for relatives back home into a new source of international financing that can empower immigrants to enhance their financial standing here and abroad, and even become entrepreneurs in the process. 
 All of that sounds appealing to Mr. Andrande.
 ''That's a good idea to start a business, but I have to have the money,'' he said. Most banks see Mr. Andrande, a contract worker, as a risky borrower. But not Microfinance International. It has already provided him two loans worth $5,000 this year, $2,000 of which he has already repaid. And, without a loan, his earnings after the $700 remittance for his two sons and mother in El Salvador might not cover his $610 rent in Washington and other expenses for his wife and two daughters who live here.
 Though sending remittances is a decades-old practice, it has only recently been tracked in the United States. Interest among banking centers is growing, largely because the dollar amounts continue to increase each year, said Donald F. Terry, manager of the multilateral investment fund of the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington, a multibillion-dollar lender to Latin American and Caribbean nations. 
 At the same time, immigrants are becoming more emboldened to establish accounts at financial firms in their communities. 
 Four bills currently before Congress would make it easier for immigrants to use credit unions for remittances and loans, and credit unions are eager for a greater piece of that business, said Patrick Keefe, vice president of communications for the Credit Union National Association in Washington. Their bid to join the ranks of small financial outfits, large wire-transfer firms and national banks could make for a fiercely competitive market.
 Mexico is by far the greatest recipient of remittances, accounting for $16.6 billion there in 2004, according to Inter-American Development Bank statistics. But for other countries, even though they may see less money, remittances are crucial for their economic stability. 
 ''This country is held by remittances,'' said Jose Napoleon Duarte, the son of El Salvador's president from 1984 to 1989 with the same name, and the financial manager for Fundacion Jose Napoleon Duarte, a microfinancing company in San Salvador. The company helps some of the country's residents receive the $2.5 billion in remittances sent each year, accounting for up to 25 percent of the country's economy.
 It is imperative to help immigrants in the United States keep remittances flowing, specialists say. But the problem until now has been that immigrants sending cash home often paid stiff fees. The market leader, Western Union, for example, charges $12 to $70, depending on how much money is being sent and to where. The company says its prices are competitive and its plentiful locations more than justify the fees.
 But newcomers like Microfinance International say their fees are much lower. Mr. Tochisako's firm charges $6 to send up to $150 to Latin America and $9 for any amount over that. Fees aside, many immigrants are afraid to open accounts at major American banks for several reasons, such as fear that the banks will be as untrustworthy as the banks in their native countries. And they often have not been the most desired customers, they add, because of the small size of their accounts. 
 They have, instead, wired money through transfer services, and the cash is consumed by families, rarely saved. With the advent of companies like Mr. Tochisako's, that is slowly changing. ''One of the things we've seen lately is a lot of people sending remittances from the U.S. are starting to think their money is not being handled well'' by recipients, Mr. Duarte said. 
 For that reason and to help local economies grow, credit unions, banks, microfinancing institutions and others are hoping to funnel remittances into accounts, rather than deliver it as cash. Companies like Microfinance International offer account services so immigrants can wire money from one account to another. That reduces sending fees and helps direct where portions of remittances end up -- in savings accounts, for example, rather than directly into the free-spending hands of relatives. 
 In addition, Microfinance International is building a base of clients in America to increase the company's revenue so that loans starting at $150,000 and up can be given to Latin American microfinance organizations which can, in turn, direct the money to entrepreneurs in their country. Of remittances sent, ''most will still be pulled out for consumption,'' said Mr. Terry of the Inter-American Development Bank, ''but 15 to 20 percent stays in for savings.'' Or at least that's the goal of various initiatives the Inter-American Development Bank is crafting with microfinance groups in the United States and throughout Central and South America.
 ''Our goal is simply over the next few years to get 10 percent of that flow into Latin America into microfinance institutions,'' he said. ''That means $5 billion of the $50 billion worldwide. That's not impossible.'' And, 15 to 20 percent into savings, he said, ''means more than $1 billion that could be lent to entrepreneurs in those countries.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Austin Allan and Claudia Ramos helped a patron at Mi Pueblo Financial Services in Washington. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); CASH FLOW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MICROFINANCE (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); REFUGEES (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); SUBURBS (68%); CREDIT UNIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Credit; Money-Transfer (?)

PERSON: Betsy Cummings

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EL SALVADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



541 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Investors Read A Fed Report As Positive 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose moderately yesterday after investors viewed a Federal Reserve report on the economy as a sign that the Fed's string of interest rate increases might be near an end.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 57.32, or 0.54 percent, to 10,637.09. Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.63, or 0.46 percent, to 1,236.79, reaching another four-year high, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 10.23, or 0.47 percent, to 2,186.22. 
 Stocks were mired in a narrow range until midafternoon, when the Fed released its beige book, a survey of the business climate around the country. The central bank said the job market had improved and that inflation, a concern for the Fed and the stock market, was fairly well contained. Seven of 12 districts reported that their regional economies were growing or holding steady. 
 ''It's a more benign take than previous beige books,'' said Robert Tipp, chief investment strategist of fixed income for Prudential Investment Management. ''It will presumably open their eyes to the fact that the economy could be cooling,'' and that only two or three more interest rate increases would be needed. 
 Other economic data was also strong: new-home sales set a record in June, and factory orders for big-ticket manufactured products rose. Analysts said investors were hearing the good economic news that they had been hoping for. 
 ''The economic slowdown that was supposed to be happening at this time of year isn't happening,'' Jack Caffrey, equities strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank, said. 
 Meanwhile, corporate earnings remained upbeat, with more companies surpassing expectations than missing them. The latest positive surprises came from Boeing and Amazon.com, whose stocks rose after they reported earnings. 
 The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell to 9830/32, from 996/32, with the yield, which moves inversely to the price, rising to 4.26 percent, from 4.22 percent.
 Boeing rose 35 cents, to $66.70, after the company surpassed Wall Street earnings expectations and raised its outlook for the year as a result of strength in its core commercial airplane and defense units. 
 Amazon also surpassed forecasts when it reported earnings after the close of regular trading on Tuesday. Amazon, which said its sales climbed 26 percent in the second quarter, rose $5.91, to $43.65 a share. 
 The consumer products company Colgate-Palmolive rose 25 cents, to $52 a share, after its second-quarter profit matched analysts' estimates. 
 Reynolds American, the nation's second-largest cigarette maker, missed analysts' expectations despite a 66 percent increase in second-quarter profit. The cigarette maker also raised its 2005 earnings forecast to reflect a favorable tax rate. It fell $1.18, to $83.07 a share. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.810
High Yield: 3.975
Low Yield: 3.920
Median Yield: 3.954
Accepted at low price: 91.910
Total applied for: 53,457,842
Accepted: 25,864,412
Noncompetitive: 883,542
Interest set at: 3.875

The 2-year notes mature july 31, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); BOEING CO (53%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (51%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); CL (NYSE) (51%); RAI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (50%); SIC2121 CIGARS (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



542 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 6; House & Home/Style Desk; TURF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Trapped In the Bubble

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
IT may seem absurd that David and Christine Boals, a Manhattan couple with two young children, wound up in a $4,400-a-month rental in Chelsea. 
 With more than $100,000 in profit from the sale of a one-bedroom apartment last year, and Ms. Boals's income as the owner of a photo agency, it never occurred to them that they wouldn't be able to trade up to a bigger place for their family. But like a growing number of equity-rich homeowners, they discovered that their money did not go nearly as far as they had hoped.
In the hottest markets, owners whose homes have skyrocketed in value find themselves in a frustrating paradox. They were supposed to be the lucky ones: they bought in frenzied real estate markets like New York and Los Angeles three or more years ago and have amassed hundreds of thousands of dollars on paper. 
 But as they try to roll that considerable equity into a bigger home, many are unpleasantly surprised to find that the cost of real estate at the higher end has outpaced their ability to buy. For homeowners who have watched the torrid housing market create wealth as if by magic, scanning the classified ads or visiting a few open houses serves as a harsh reality check. 
 For the Boalses, who had owned their previous apartment for just three years, the best option was a $950,000 unit that had gone unrenovated for 30 years. But since it was only slightly larger than the apartment they had just sold -- and would require a mortgage nearly twice as large as their previous one -- the couple decided to rent. 
 Trading up ''is becoming harder and harder, even for people who are technically wealthy,'' Mr. Boals said last week as he took a break from his duties as a stay-at-home father for his daughter, 3, and son, 16 months.
 Families have always dreamed of the extra bedroom or the larger yard. But now that their current homes have shot up in value, their expectations for a lifestyle upgrade are even higher. The problem now is that in cities like Boston, New York and San Francisco the number of people vying to move up exceeds the number of larger places for sale.
 ''You often think, 'Geez, I have this huge windfall,' but your neighbors and the people in the building next door have the same windfall,'' said Christopher J. Mayer, a professor of real estate at the Columbia Business School in New York. ''There are a lot of people who want to trade up, so that's really the problem they are facing.'' 
 In some places prices of bigger homes are hitting records, putting them out of the reach of even those who, on paper at least, have accumulated considerable wealth. In Manhattan the average price of a two-bedroom apartment is now $1.5 million, according to Miller Samuel, a New York real estate appraiser, while three-bedrooms average $3.6 million. In Cupertino, Calif., the average price of a four-bedroom house is nearly $1.1 million, according to the Silicon Valley Association of Realtors. 
 Incomes have not kept pace. The average earnings for private-sector workers in Manhattan went up 10 percent between 2000 and 2004, according to Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Average prices for co-ops and condos in Manhattan increased by 41 percent in the same period.
 The gap is widening nationwide, too. Economy.com, a research firm, says that five years ago, a household bringing in the median national income could afford to trade up to a home that cost 61 percent more than the median house price. Today such a household can afford a place only 44 percent more expensive; that figure is the lowest in 15 years.
 One result is that homeowners who might have followed the traditional path from starter home to dream house in a few years are now deferring the dream. Kim Orchen Cooper, a freelance casting director, and her husband, Roger Cooper, a film editor, bought a two-and-a-half-bedroom town house in Santa Monica, Calif., in 2001 for $415,000. After their daughter, Rylee, was born last year, the couple yearned for a bigger house with a full backyard.
 Considering recent sales in their neighborhood, they say they might get about $800,000 for the town house. But Ms. Cooper said that a simple stand-alone house nearby would start at about $1.1 million. Even with the equity from their current home, ''that would still be a $700,000 loan,'' she said, adding, ''We can't afford it.''
 Some buyers might be able to finance a move up but can't stomach the bidding wars and the stratospheric prices that confront them. Pier Charter, a real estate agent at Brown Bear Realty in San Francisco, said he has worked with at least a dozen people in the last year who decided to renovate after losing out to bidders who offered as much as 30 percent over the asking price.
 ''Even if your ideal house came up,'' Mr. Charter said, ''there's absolutely no guarantee that one will get it unless one throws obscene amounts of money at it.'' 
 Many families are shocked at how little their newfound wealth will buy. In over a year of looking, Shauna Swerland Youssefnia and her husband, David Youssefnia, have not found anything they believe justifies cashing out of their current Manhattan apartment. Ms. Youssefnia, a recruiting firm executive, bought the one-bedroom five years ago, before she married Mr. Youssefnia, who owns his own consulting business, and she said the value of the apartment has almost doubled since then.
 ''It's so unbelievable what you get for your money,'' she said. ''Even if you stretch yourself all you get is an extra room. It doesn't mean more closet space or outdoor space or storage space.''
 When their son, Max, was born eight months ago, they installed a temporary wall in the dining room to create a room for him. Now, Ms. Youssefnia said, ''David and I keep joking that Max is going to grow up in the dining room.''
 Some buyers forge ahead, but end up taking out riskier mortgages simply to afford the monthly payments. Marie Kuranishi and her husband, Tony Guinta, sold a condo earlier this year in Playa del Rey, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles, for $450,000, nearly twice what they had paid for it, and bought a $632,000 house in a more remote suburb. To finance the jump, they took out two interest-only loans, paying no principal for a fixed period. Even so, their mortgage payments have gone up by more than $1,000 a month.
 The wealth the market created in their condo is already a distant memory. Now, Ms. Kuranishi said, the couple worry about how to cover their bills. 
 Some owners are taking their profits and escaping the frothiest markets. Earlier this year, David Wolf, a commercial real estate broker, and his wife, Marie-Josee Henri, a lawyer, sold their two-bedroom co-op on the Upper West Side for close to $900,000, three and a half years after they paid just under $550,000 for it.
 After concluding that they would not find a three-bedroom they liked for less than $1.7 million, they took their equity and moved with their 22-month-old daughter, Alexie-Emmanuelle, to Montreal, Ms. Henri's hometown. They bought a five-bedroom house for the equivalent of $960,000. Buying in Manhattan, Mr. Wolf said, ''would have stretched us to a place we didn't want to go.''
 Most New Yorkers whose equity has soared seem resigned to staying where they are. Several mothers at the 96th Street playground in Central Park last week said that despite rapid appreciation in the value of their homes, they were planning to let two children share a bedroom indefinitely. 
 As her 4-year-old son, Leander, and 2-year-old daughter, Celeste, piled onto her lap, Jennifer Sheridan said her impotent paper wealth had provoked a recurring reverie. ''I had this dream about finding this room in my apartment that I did not know about,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE SQUEEZE -- The Cooper family, far left, can't afford a bigger house even though the one they have has nearly doubled in value. Shauna and David Youssefnia, left, in a similar bind, carved a bedroom out of the dining room.
BOWING OUT -- David Wolf and Marie-Josee Henri sold their two-bedroom co-op in New York and bought a five-bedroom house in Montreal for not too much more. (Photo by Peter Svarbein for The New York Times)
(Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alana Riley for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 (Illustration by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; San Francisco (Calif); Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



543 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Santana May Be a Marked Man, but He Earns High Marks

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
For Johan Santana, the left-handed pitcher for the Minnesota Twins, last season's Cy Young award was followed by a huge new contract, honors from the president of his native Venezuela and lofty expectations from everyone.
 How good could the 26-year-old Santana become with his fastball, his slider and, especially, with his eye-popping, bat-dropping changeup? Could he become the next Sandy Koufax? Would he be worth $40 million for four years?
''I'm sure he's a marked man coming off the year he did,'' said Rick Anderson, the Twins' pitching coach, referring to Santana's record of 20-6 in 2004.
 ''You've got guys trying to whack him,'' said Ron Gardenhire, the Minnesota manager, referring to opposing hitters swinging the bat against Santana. 
 Against the Yankees last night, Santana was the man leaving his mark. He scattered seven hits over seven innings, left in the eighth with a 6-0 lead and brought his record to 10-5 as the Twins defeated the Yankees, 7-3.
 ''I felt pretty good,'' Santana said. ''I knew I was facing a tough team. I tried to stay aggressive. I never give up. I can challenge those guys and compete.''
 But is Santana still the same dominant pitcher who finished last season with 13 consecutive victories? That stretch might be difficult to duplicate. Has success changed one of baseball's more upbeat personalities?
 ''I'm still the same guy,'' Santana said Tuesday. ''I'm a human being just like everybody else. I'm a father and a son and a husband. I try to do my best to make them proud.''
 He certainly comes across as self-assured and humble, soundly grounded to his modest roots in Tovar Merida in the Andes mountains, aware that he is among the vanguard of a wave of baseball talent from that country.
 Venezuela has significant social, economic and political problems, but Santana spoke optimistically about its growing presence and success in baseball. He said he wanted to wear the national uniform at the first world baseball tournament to be played before next season.
 ''I would love to represent my country in international competition,'' Santana said. ''We have pretty good talent. It's going to be pretty entertaining.'' 
 Santana was among five Venezuelans in the recent All-Star Game. Another was Bobby Abreu of Philadelphia, who won the home-run derby.
 In some games this season -- although not last night at Yankee Stadium -- Santana has been greeted by groups of fans from Venezuela, waving the national flag. ''It's kind of cool to see the support and to see the joy,'' Santana said. ''They're happy. It's always good to make a lot of people happy. There's nothing better than that.''
 Santana answers to the nickname gocho, which can be taken as a disparaging term for rural people from his region. ''Literally, it's somebody who's not too smart,'' Santana said. ''That's what it means.''
 But he has embraced it, he said, because ''When they say, 'You're a gocho,' they know exactly where you're from.'' 
 In part because Santana is contributing to sports programs in Venezuela, there are more good baseball players being developed in that region.
 ''It's something that makes me feel proud,'' Santana said. ''It's good to know there a lot of kids following in your steps who want to be like you. It feels good to have that kind of motivation for kids to succeed and get a better life.''
 Coming into last night's game, Santana had won his previous two decisions, but he had some difficult moments after winning his first four decisions in April. Theories abound. Anderson said Santana was too anxious and was rushing his pitches.
 ''He didn't stay back and get to his balance point before he went,'' Anderson said. Lately, Anderson said, ''He slowed it down a little bit and started to work down in the zone.''
 Gardenhire said, among other things, that Santana was not commanding the inside of the plate with his fastball and was throwing too many high fastballs over the plate.
 But even a perfectly placed high fastball does not always intimidate good hitters. Hideki Matsui, who singled in the second inning, led off the fourth. Santana knocked him down with a high, tight pitch. ''It went a little bit too far in,'' Santana said. Matsui followed up with a single to left field on a changeup. ''That tells you what kind of hitter he is,'' Santana added.
 Referring in general to his pitching mechanics, Santana said: ''I'm still working on it, working on some balance, making sure to keep the ball down. It takes a little bit of time.''
 Unlike some starting pitchers who insist on being alone and uncommunicative before their games, Santana sat with a group of teammates yesterday in front of his locker to prepare. A couple sat in chairs, a couple stood up, another sat on the floor; they chatted in Spanish like roommates in a dorm.
 Santana held in his hands a bat, which he gently turned and wiggled. But his legs kept bouncing up and down, first the left, then the right, one after the other. It was almost time to go to work and he was getting ready in his own way.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Johan Santana (10-5) went seven innings last night. He allowed seven hits, walked two and struck five batters to lower his E.R.A. to 3.70. (Photo by John Dunn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (70%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%) Minnesota Twins

PERSON: Joe Lapointe; Johan Santana

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ANDES (78%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



544 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; TURNING POINT IN ALBANY: REACTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: A Constellation of Advisers and Others Starts Updating Resumes

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Al Baker reported from Albany for this article, and Raymond Hernandez from Washington.

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 27 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki's announcement on Wednesday that he would not seek a fourth term sent shudders through the influential circle of lobbyists, consultants and aides whose fortunes have been linked to his for more than a decade.
 From the State Capitol to Wall Street and Washington, the legions of Republicans who came of age in the Pataki era and helped shape New York government and politics suddenly felt the political ground shift beneath their feet, prompting many to wonder what lay ahead for them. In a flurry of activity, resumes were dusted off and conference calls placed, and some held out hope that the journey of their main political benefactor would not end now but would continue to the White House. 
''I think there are a lot of great things ahead for him, so I feel nothing but optimism,'' said Michael McKeon, a former aide who typifies the path followed by many people who owe their success to the governor. Mr. Pataki hired Mr. McKeon when he was a reporter for an upstate newspaper, vaulted him through his inner circle to the post of communications director and saw him go off on his own to become a leading political consultant at Mercury Public Affairs.
 For many others, there was the reality of losing the center around which their world has orbited.
 One associate of Mr. Pataki's took stock as news that the governor was leaving sunk in around Albany. ''Are there a whole host of people up in Albany who are now going to be concerned about making the mortgage payments in 2007? Absolutely,'' said the associate. ''But there are a whole host of Democrats who were in the same boat when Cuomo left, and they managed to survive.''
 For the governor's part, he left his aides with words of encouragement at his news conference in the Capitol. He ended it by pledging to use the rest of his time in office to make the state ''better, safer, cleaner and stronger'' than before. ''Let's not waste a day,'' he said. ''Let's get back to work.'' Applause filled the room. Some shouted.
 As they filed out into a crowded hallway, many of the governor's top aides were ebullient. Some said they felt motivated to find creative ways to solidify his achievements, now that they are free of the usual political restraints in place when a governor is seeking re-election. 
 Many said it was too soon to start thinking about anything beyond the end of the governor's term, though they admitted that those thoughts would not be far off.
 ''It will start to creep into the psyche of all of us; you know: 'What happens to me?''' said John F. Cape, the governor's budget director, who said it would be the fifth consecutive gubernatorial farewell he had seen. 
 ''But,'' he added, ''my assumption is we'll all be too busy to think about it.''
 Up the hallway, John P. Cahill, who has served in a series of senior posts in the Pataki administration and was appointed in May as the governor's new development chief in Lower Manhattan, was holding court with reporters. After he praised Mr. Pataki, he was asked about his own plans, which he said were to ''continue to work for the governor as long as he will let me.'' He did not say where that might be.
 Nearby, Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, considered his future without a Governor Pataki.
 ''Me?'' he said. ''I collect unemployment,'' he said with mock concern, and laughed. Then he turned serious, acknowledging that there were many people in the Pataki administration, speechwriters, budget analysts and others facing a variety of changes. 
 ''The outside world is waiting for them,'' Mr. Gargano said.
 As the day wore on, many Republican political figures said they were not surprised by the decision and saw reason for hope. The governor had bowed out early enough to give the party a chance to rally behind a replacement.
 John J. Faso, one of the governor's close allies in the State Assembly who went on to become an Albany lobbyist, said it is too early ''to speak of him as though he is gone,'' noting that there is still plenty Mr. Pataki can do in his remaining time in office. 
 Alfonse M. D'Amato, the former senator and confidant of Mr. Pataki's who played a crucial role in his 1994 victory, said Mr. Pataki was ever mindful of the network of loyalists he would be leaving behind. ''I think he had a sense of obligation he felt towards them,'' he said. ''I think that was one of the reasons he took so long to make his decision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Consultants; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: Al Baker; Raymond Hernandez; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



545 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: It's the Kids. Lock Up The China!

 BODY:
APRIL WILKNER literally got caught with her pants down. 
 She was traveling with her mother in Japan, visiting a spa in Tokyo. The two of them were stuffing their clothes into lockers and slipping on robes when her mother saw the cherry-patterned underwear her daughter was wearing.
''Where did you get those?'' Ms. Wilkner's mother said. ''Those are mine.'' 
 ''Huh?'' she replied. But it was pointless to deny it. The red cherries were unmistakable. 
 Ms. Wilkner, 24, a fashion model in Manhattan, had come across the brand-new Brazilian-cut briefs in a basket in her mother and stepfather's home in Providence, R.I. Assuming her mother had accidentally bought sexy underwear instead of her usual granny style, Ms. Wilkner had simply helped herself. 
 It was not the first time Ms. Wilkner had swiped something from her mother. She often appropriated socks, spices, oatmeal, once even a chest of drawers she found in her mother's bedroom that had yet to be assembled. ''That was a pretty good steal,'' Ms. Wilkner said. ''Oh, I took a bookshelf, too. Clocks. I took artwork, a bunch of Monet prints. But my parents have plenty of artwork.''
 A generation ago, adult children visiting their parents' homes might have left with a Tupperware container of lasagna. Today, many of them stealthily make off with toiletries, groceries, sometimes clothing and even furniture. It is an apparently widespread practice, born of a sense of entitlement among young adults -- and usually amusedly tolerated by parents -- that gives new meaning to the phrase ''home shopping.'' Like most adults, the pilferers have set up their own households, but they seem not to have given up the expectation that their parents should provide for them in certain ways. They loot their parents' houses to cut costs, or because they would rather not pay for incidentals. Or because they want things with sentimental value.
 Sometimes the children ask if they can take things. Often they do not. 
 Dan P. McAdams, a professor of psychology and human development at Northwestern University, said this kind of filching was one more example of the way grown children were putting off adulthood: living at home longer than they did a generation ago, staying in school longer and getting married later. ''A lot of people in their mid and late 20's do not think of themselves as adults,'' Dr. McAdams said, ''even if they make a lot of money.''
 The result is a period of life that has come to be known among some sociologists and psychologists as emerging adulthood. ''It's like a new stage in life,'' Dr. McAdams said. ''They're not teenagers, and they're not really adults.'' 
 Stephen Kunken, 34, an actor in New York who is an admitted ''pillager'' of his parents' possessions, said he rationalized that his parents had too much stuff and that he was both ''trimming the fat'' and ''liberating'' things. ''I thought: 'These poor things. These are never going to get used. I'm going to liberate them and bring them into the city,''' he said.
 Through the years Mr. Kunken has taken briefcases, a slide projector, an electric toothbrush, razors, blank tapes, paper towels, soap and bottles of wine. 
 His parents did not know their wine was missing until he served it to them at a party at his Brooklyn apartment. ''We had our own wine that he stole,'' his mother, Ginny Kunken, said. ''It was very nice that he invited us.'' 
 His parents are accustomed to finding things missing. ''What have they taken?'' said her husband, Fred Kunken, a dentist from Upper Brookville, N.Y., referring to Stephen and his 37-year-old brother, Jeffrey. ''What haven't they taken? They've taken just about every bit of my clothing, from my underwear and socks to ----''
 ''Bathing suits,'' his wife interjected, laughing.
 ''All of a sudden my razors disappear,'' Dr. Kunken said. ''Shaving cream disappears. It's gotten to the point that if I see them coming, and if it's something I just got that I want to wear, I hide it.''
 That parents find their grown children's thieving humorous is a reflection of how family dynamics have changed, some experts said. Parents of previous generations maintained an authoritative stance toward their adult children, but now relationships are more equal, more like friendship, said Frank F. Furstenberg, a professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the chairman of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Transitions to Adulthood, which examines the changing nature of early adulthood. ''That's been a secular trend throughout the whole 20th century,'' Dr. Furstenberg said. 
 Having grown up with a feeling of friendship with their parents, Dr. McAdams said, many young adults may feel comfortable taking their things. And parents, wanting to maintain the camaraderie, look the other way. Some even keep their cupboards full so there is plenty to go around. 
 Today's empty nests, especially those in affluent neighborhoods, are also generally bigger and better stocked than ever before, Dr. McAdams said. Some are almost like warehouses, especially if the parents shop at discount stores like Sam's Club and BJ's Wholesale Club. 
 Replacement razors for the Gillette Mach 3 are expensive if you buy them in small packages, Stephen Kunken said. But his father buys them in bulk. ''He goes to Costco and has 40, so I'm like, 'I'll take eight,''' Mr. Kunken said. 
 Ms. Wilkner said her mother hoarded things and had ''a wall of toilet paper'' in the bathroom. ''They're not going to miss six rolls,'' she said. 
 Toilet paper is typically the first quarry in a life of petty thievery from parents' homes, many filchers said. During a visit the grown-up child notices an abundance of Charmin in a parent's bathroom, is perhaps reminded of the inferior brand in his or her own apartment, and suddenly decides to tuck a few rolls under an arm and deposit them in a knapsack. Soon the thief is taking other provisions. Toothpaste. Windex. Band-Aids. Electronics and home furnishings are not far behind. 
 ''Ketchup and toilet paper are those things that you just really don't want to pay for,'' said Nicole Atkins, 26, a musician who lives in Brooklyn, adding that her parents ''are generous to let me take their peanut butter and paper towels.''
 Debbie Jaffe, a 31-year-old actress, takes her mother's camera film. ''She always has excess of everything,'' Ms. Jaffe said. ''I took a printer recently. She had an extra.''
 Naomi Finkelstein, 24, a campus recruiter for a financial institution, said, ''My parents are very giving.'' She has taken bags of marshmallows, batteries and other ''little things that I just end up tossing into the bag,'' as well as groceries that her parents freely hand over. 
 Some parents balk at the practice of home shopping. They may remember reaching their own independence earlier in life, and how their parents had gone through the Great Depression and were extremely frugal. Taking things from them was out of the question. 
 ''I think there is some resentment older adults might have,'' Dr. McAdams said, adding that these parents may see their children as ''lacking focus.''
 But these are generally not the parents whose homes get looted. The filchers often say they would never take items their parents truly valued. Many parents say they are amused, or even flattered, by the pilfering. ''It means they need us,'' said Dr. McAdams, a father of two. ''It's nice to be needed.''
 Robin Hoffman of Manhattan has a daughter, 26, who took family photographs, and a son, 24, who took acushy chair that used to belong to her father. ''I'm happy that they want it and that they'll use it,'' Ms. Hoffman said. ''I think it's great.'' 
 The phrase ''emerging adulthood'' does imply that these sticky fingers will eventually become independent. Is there a specific age by which one should finally accept the responsibility of paying one's way? Psychologists and economists point to the early or mid-30's. 
 ''By the early 30's the assistance that kids are receiving from their parents dissipates strongly,'' said Robert F. Schoeni, an associate professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. ''The kids are establishing their careers, they're getting better-paid jobs, getting married.'' 
 Ms. Atkins, who has decorated her Brooklyn apartment with shot glasses, candles, Mexican marionettes and boxing gloves from her parents' house in Neptune, N.J., says she will cease her home shopping once she gets married and has a family. 
 ''If I had kids and a husband, and I was still taking stuff from my parents,'' she said, ''that would be really lame.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2005; July 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A byline was omitted yesterday from a front-page article in Thursday Styles about adult children who take objects from their parents' homes. The writer was Stephanie Rosenbloom. 1/3 1/3 
A byline was omitted yesterday from a front-page article in Thursday Styles about adult children who take objects from their parents' homes. The writer was Stephanie Rosenbloom.
A byline was omitted yesterday from a front-page article in Thursday Styles about adult children who take objects from their parents' homes. The writer was Stephanie Rosenbloom.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A THIEF AT HOME -- April Wilkner, left, readily admits that she has taken socks, food, furniture, artwork and even underwear from her parents. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
 COURTESY OF MOM AND DAD -- Naomi Finkelstein, above, at home with her spoils. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. G8)Drawing (Drawing by Doug Jones)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); STEPPARENTS (54%); SOCIOLOGY (50%) Families and Family Life; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Stephanie Rosenbloom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



546 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-13

Britain Arrests Suspect In Bombing Attempt
The British police arrested a man who is believed to be one of the bombers behind London's second wave of attacks last week, the most important breakthrough yet in its investigation. A1

The British police asked ABC News to withhold a report showing images of unexploded bombs found in a rental car and of the inside of a subway train mangled in the July 7 London bombings, an official of the network said. A10

Algerian Diplomats Killed in Iraq
Two Algerian diplomats who were kidnapped less than a week ago have been killed after receiving a death sentence from a religious court, a group led by the Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi said in an Internet posting. A8

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned Iraqi political leaders to settle their differences and agree on a new constitution quickly. A8

Two studies by independent panels are critical of the way the United States prepares for stabilization missions after major combat, such as in Iraq. A8

Arrest Made in Pearl Killing
A prime suspect in the kidnapping and killing of Daniel Pearl, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, was arrested by Pakistani intelligence agents, officials said. A3

North Korea Criticizes U.S. Plan
North Korea criticized an American plan to defuse the nuclear crisis, saying the proposal demands too many steps toward dismantling the country's nuclear program before providing any aid, a senior United States official said. A2

U.N. Evacuates Uzbek Refugees
The United Nations began relocating Uzbek refugees who had sought sanctuary in Kyrgyzstan, moving them from a camp near the Uzbek border to the Kyrgyz capital. A6

NATIONAL A14-22

NASA Grounds Shuttles, Citing Insulation Loss
In a setback to the space program, NASA grounded the shuttle fleet after learning that a large piece of insulating foam had broken off of the external tank during the ascent of the shuttle Discovery. A1

Muslim Condemnation of Terror
Muslim scholars in the United States and Canada plan to release a fatwa, or judicial ruling, saying Islam condemns terrorism, extremism and violence against civilians, including suicide bombings. A14

Way Cleared for Transport Bill
House and Senate negotiators cleared the way for major transportation legislation, and the finishing touches were put on an energy bill as Congress raced to wrap up its business before summer recess. A22

22 Years for Millennium Plot
An Algerian man was sentenced in Seattle to 22 years in a federal prison for plotting to bomb the Los Angeles Airport during the 2000 millennium celebration. A20

F.B.I. Transcript Backlog Grew
The F.B.I's backlog of untranslated terrorism intelligence doubled last year, and the bureau is taking more time to hire translators, a Justice Department report has found. A20

Dissent Over Interrogations
Senior military lawyers lodged dissents in early 2003 as an administration legal task force concluded that President Bush had authority to order harsh interrogations of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay. A21

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Herbal Remedy Fails Cold Test
Echinacea, the herbal supplement made from purple coneflower and used by millions of Americans to prevent or treat colds, neither prevented colds nor eased their symptoms in a large and rigorous study. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Pataki's Decision Ripples Through G.O.P. in New York
Governor Pataki, announcing that he would not seek a fourth term, set off a realignment of political power and influence in the state Republican Party, with leaders scrambling to keep the Executive Mansion in the 2006 elections and avoid being routed in other statewide races. A1

M.T.A. Reveals Big Surplus
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced that it would have a surplus of $833 million this year and that it would consider using the money to create a platform over its West Side railyards for future development. Despite the surplus, the authority said it still planned to raise fares and tolls in 2007 and 2009. A1

6 Killed in Catskills Crash
A car ferrying a group of young campers along a rural highway in the Catskills veered into oncoming traffic and slammed into a dump truck, which flattened the vehicle and killed all six of the car's occupants instantly, the authorities said. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-8

OBITUARIES A23

ARTS E1-10

$20 Million Gift for Islamic Art
In the largest gift ever to the world's largest museum, a Saudi prince agreed to donate $20 million to the construction of a wing for the Louvre's vast collection of Islamic art. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Trade Agreement Approved
The House of Representatives approved the Central American Free Trade Agreement, allowing President Bush to sign the nation's biggest reduction of trade barriers in more than 10 years. A1

Citigroup Chairman to Stay
Sanford I. Weill told Citigroup employees that he planned to stay on as chairman until his retirement, after a debate over his plans to leave and to start a private equity fund. C1

Fuel Efficiency Down
The Environmental Protection Agency decided to delay release of an annual report on fuel economy, but a copy released by a member of the agency's staff shows that loopholes in regulations have allowed automakers to produce cars and trucks that are less fuel-efficient, on average, than they were in the late 1980's. C1

Talks for DreamWorks Unit
DreamWorks SKG is said to be in talks to be acquired by its longtime partner, NBC Universal. C7

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Energy shortage; the governor's exit strategy; nourishing the Palestinian police; no immunity for the gun industry.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E10
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SENTENCING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SPACE SHUTTLE (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); RELIGION (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); ENERGY REGULATION (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (65%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (65%); MILLENNIUM (60%); PRISONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



547 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Energy Shortage

 BODY:
The energy bill that has been six years in the making and is nearing the president's desk is not the unrelieved disaster some environmentalists make it out to be. But to say, as President Bush undoubtedly will, that it will swiftly move this country to a cleaner, more secure energy future is nonsense. The bill, approved by a House-Senate conference early Tuesday morning, does not take the bold steps necessary to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil, and it also fails to address the looming problem of global warming. 
 These shortcomings are chiefly the fault of the White House and its retainers in the House. To be sure, the Senate showed no more courage than the House in its refusal to increase fuel-economy standards for cars and trucks, even though higher standards, by common consent, are the easiest, quickest and most technologically feasible way to reduce oil demand and cut foreign imports.
 But the Senate did approve a renewable fuels provision requiring power plants to produce 10 percent of their electricity from nontraditional sources, like wind power, by 2010. It also approved a provision that would ask the president to reduce domestic oil consumption by one million barrels a day by whatever means he chose. The House conferees rejected both proposals. 
 Meanwhile, both houses conspired in some spectacular giveaways. One would ease environmental restrictions on oil and gas companies drilling on public lands. The other would shower billions in undeserved tax breaks on the same companies, even as they wallow in the windfall profits produced by $60-a-barrel oil.
 The bill's most useful provisions may take years to realize their promise. Again thanks largely to the Senate, the tax provisions are far more hospitable to energy efficiency and renewable fuels than earlier versions of the bill, and include substantial incentives for buyers of fuel-efficient hybrid cars. 
 More important in the long run, however, may be two provisions, buried deep in the bill, that are aimed at developing new energy technologies. One provision would encourage the development and commercial application of biofuels from agricultural products that, much like corn-based ethanol, might someday be used as a substitute for gasoline. The other provision is aimed at developing new clean-coal technologies to turn coal into a gas and, more important, capture emissions of carbon dioxide, a major contributor to global warming. 
 These could be powerful new tools in any future effort to reshape the way Americans produce and use energy. But the success of both will depend on the willingness of the government to put money into them. That, in turn, will require a deeper commitment to a more adventurous energy policy than this administration has so far displayed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); ETHANOL (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ALCOHOLS (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%); AGRICULTURE (67%); POWER PLANTS (58%) Energy and Power; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Weather; Global Warming; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



548 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE APPROVES FREE TRADE PACT

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Thursday, July 28 

 BODY:
The House of Representatives narrowly approved the Central American Free Trade Agreement early Thursday, allowing President Bush to put his signature to the nation's biggest reduction of trade barriers in more than 10 years. 
 After one of the hardest-fought legislative battles of the year, Republican leaders were able to cut enough political deals to overcome fears among many of their own members about foreign competition and push ahead despite opposition from most Democrats, labor unions and the sugar industry's powerful lobby.
The vote, 217 to 215, came almost a month after the Senate approved the trade pact and gave Mr. Bush a crucial victory that had seemed in doubt a few days ago. As recently as Tuesday, fewer than half of Republican lawmakers had publicly endorsed the pact and almost all Democrats were planning to vote against it. 
 But the end result did not come without some drama. The voting took almost an hour as Republicans pressured about 8 to 10 members. The count seemed to stall after about 30 minutes with the tally at 214 in favor and 211 against, and a handful of votes outstanding. 
 For the next half-hour, Republicans, mostly from textile states, jockeyed over who would be allowed to vote against the bill and save face back home. The final count came minutes after midnight. 
 Within minutes after the vote, the White House released a statement from Mr. Bush praising the action. ''By lowering trade barriers to American goods in Central American markets to a level now enjoyed by their goods in the U.S.,'' he said in the statement, ''this agreement will level the playing field and help American workers, farmers and small businesses.''
 Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, also congratulated Congress. ''I pledge to do all I can,'' he said, ''to continue our efforts to listen and address members' concerns on trade.''
 Passage of the bill came only after intense pressure from Mr. Bush, who made a last-minute trip to the Capitol on Wednesday morning, and after deals with reluctant lawmakers from textile-producing states, sugar-growing areas and industrial states like Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
 The pact would eliminate most barriers to trade and investment between the United States, the Dominican Republic and the Central American nations of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
 Brimming with confidence, House Republican leaders declared that the pact would benefit the United States as well as the impoverished countries of Central America. 
 ''Tonight, we have the opportunity to be the progressive, aggressive good-neighbor party,'' said Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. ''We will not be the ones who say for 40 years that we want to help and then heel to the protectionist movement.'' 
 The immediate economic impact is likely to be small, at least for the United States, because the combined economies of the six countries are equivalent to about 1 percent of the United States economy or an economy about the size of Tampa, Fla., and its surrounding suburbs. 
 But the political impact is likely to loom much larger. To supporters and opponents alike, the pact became a political symbol over how best to respond to globalization, competition from low-wage countries and the loss of manufacturing jobs in the United States. 
 The treaty has also been the focus of a power struggle between Mr. Bush, who championed it as a model for expanding free trade, and Democratic lawmakers who argued that it would encourage American companies to shift jobs out of this country while doing little to elevate the working standards of Central Americans. 
 All but a handful of Democrats, including many who voted in 1994 for the North American Free Trade Agreement, which covered the far bigger trading partners of Mexico and Canada, voted against the Central American agreement even though many issues are the same. 
 Democrats charged that Mr. Bush has missed an opportunity to elevate labor practices in Central American nations, predicting that the pact would encourage American companies to shift jobs out of the United States without prodding Central American countries to offer livable wages and basic protections for workers. 
 ''As our manufacturing base erodes, as our industrial base erodes, we have a president who is contributing to the further erosion of that base,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader. 
 In a crucial breakthrough, White House officials and Republican leaders were able to win support from about half of the Republican lawmakers from textile-producing states like Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina.
 The trade deal has been unpopular in textile states, which have lost nearly 200,000 jobs in the industry in the last decade. But late last week, the administration announced that the Central American countries had agreed to several new restrictions that would benefit mills that export yarn and certain types of fabric.
 One important concession, for instance, calls for the Central American countries to use American-made pockets and linings in pants they export to the United States.
 Representative Gresham Barrett, Republican of South Carolina, was one of five Republicans who abandoned his opposition to the pact this week. On Wednesday, Mr. Barrett said that he was persuaded that with the new restrictions, the trade pact would prevent job loss to China.
 But some textile industry groups, particularly those that represent producers of finished products rather than yarn or fabric, were furious and vowed to punish those who had changed their views.
 Mr. Barrett said he was sanguine about the criticism. ''Some of it bothers you,'' he said, ''but I think in the long run a good Cafta agreement will help us keep jobs in South Carolina.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush made a rare trip to Capitol Hill yesterday morning. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); SUGAR FARMING (75%); SUGAR MFG (70%); TEXTILE MFG (66%) International Trade and World Market; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Law and Legislation; Organized Labor; Lobbying and Lobbyists; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROB PORTMAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%) United States; Dominican Republic; Costa Rica; El Salvador ; Guatemala; Honduras; Nicaragua

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



549 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Hip-Hop Conundrum: How Can a Pimp Be a Hero?

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
Hip-hop has managed to pull off a neat trick that has eluded most musical genres: it has grown both more mainstream and less respectable. The biggest hip-hop hits are usually filled with rhymes that have to be heavily redacted before they hit the radio stations, and rappers themselves are finding that all this radio activity scarcely makes them any less radioactive. 50 Cent sells more records in America than anyone else, yet he's so closely identified with violence and sex that no mainstream politician would go near him.
 So let's at least be glad that the writer and director Craig Brewer took pains not to ignore this conundrum. His film ''Hustle & Flow,'' set in the world of Memphis hip-hop, opened on Friday and earned $8.1 million over the weekend, more than double its budget. And instead of ducking hip-hop's most unsavory elements, the film puts them front and center. Its protagonist is DJay (portrayed by Terrence Howard, who affects an odd hillbilly drawl), a pimp and very small-time drug dealer who is also, of course, an aspiring rapper. 
 DJay's hip-hop dreams hinge on the fate of a track that would have probably been given an inoffensive name in a more timid movie. But Mr. Brewer has built his film around a composition entitled ''Whoop That Trick,'' although the script makes it clear that this isn't DJay's first choice. At first he wants to call it ''Beat That Bitch,'' but his executive producer objects, saying radio stations won't play it. Another potential title, ''Stomp That Ho,'' is rejected for the same reason. 
 Those titles are outlandish but not, as hip-hop fans know, implausible. David Banner's track ''Mama's House,'' to name just one, has plenty of ho-stomping. The lyrics for ''Whoop That Trick'' (which don't, except for that phrase, concern trick-whooping) were written by the veteran Memphis rapper Al Kapone, with a terrific, menacing beat by that city's dominant hip-hop crew, Three 6 Mafia. And Mr. Howard acquits himself fine: he doesn't sound like the world's (or even the neighborhood's) best rapper, but he doesn't sound like a non-rapper, either.
 How is it that songs and sentiments like these have become so popular among hip-hop stars and -- more important -- their fans? How can a pimp be a hero? That's precisely the question ''Hustle & Flow'' raises but can't, of course, answer. But to be fair, it's a question that no one else seems able to answer.
 From its meaner-than-it-sounds tag line (''Everybody gotta have a dream'') to its pulpy fantasia of life in the ghetto, ''Hustle & Flow'' tackles a seedy world the way movies often do, simultaneously sensationalizing it and de-sensationalizing it. Our hero can't just rap about pimping; he has to be a pimp, too, with a ragtag stable of prostitutes. This is the vivid world that draws viewers in. 
 But at the same time, he can't actually be a real pimp, because (since he's our hero) he has to be basically nice, a pimp with a heart of gold. He really seems eager to empower the women who are also, he notes, his primary investors. And the odd irony of ''Whoop That Trick'' is that we never see DJay do any real whooping, even when one prostitute tries to goad him into beating her up. The only exception is when one woman gets a light, almost friendly smack, which helps her sing better. 
 And as for the song itself, DJay's white beat-maker, Shelby (played by DJ Qualls), explains, more to the audience than to anyone in the room, that a ho can be male as well as female, especially in Southern slang. (That's the premise underlying the David Banner track.) In any case, the word ''trick'' is a tricky one, because it can refer either to a prostitute or to her john; taken that way, ''Whoop That Trick'' could be the aggrieved yawp of a fed-up sex worker.
 When you hear ''Whoop That Trick'' on the film's excellent Atlantic Records soundtrack, DJay -- and, by extension, Mr. Howard -- sounds notably unslick. His patter doesn't compare to the greasy, pimpish boilerplate you get from the Orange Mound, Tenn., veterans 8Ball & MJG on ''Tell Me Why,'' to name just one highlight. 
 But almost despite itself, the film illustrates something about the seductive way in which hip-hop stars deploy pimp-and-ho imagery. Whereas the movie establishes a rather literal character (the ''pimp'' as pimp) and then bends over backwards to assure viewers that he's a nice guy after all, many rappers do the reverse. We know -- or we think we know -- that they're professional musicians, not real-life pimps. But they find sly ways to suggest that they may not be so nice after all, struggling to avoid the kinds of assurance Mr. Brewer is so eager to provide.
 As it happens, the movie co-stars the rapper Ludacris, who turns in an impressive, restless performance as Skinny Black, a successful rapper visiting his hometown. In real life, Ludacris has a big summertime hit that happens to be a pimping song, sort of. It's ''Pimpin' All Over the World,'' a breezy and innocuous tribute to his own high-rolling lifestyle. It seems oddly appropriate that while Mr. Brewer is working overtime to return pimping to its literal meaning, one of his stars is using it as merely another synonym for having fun.
 ''Hustle & Flow'' portrays hip-hop as a world where men (and only men, as many critics have noted) can let their voices be heard, but of course rappers don't quite believe in free speech: they believe in paid speech, which means they believe, most of all, in listeners. You'd think this would be where DJay's training as a pimp -- albeit a meek one -- might come in handy, but listeners are oddly absent from this movie's hip-hop economy, which is driven more by supply than by demand.
 Perhaps people sitting in movie theaters want redemptive endings, but when those same people get in their cars and turn the music up, they seem to want something else. Evidently they want to be cajoled, bullied and flattered by rappers who constantly fail to live up to our best expectations and decline to fulfill our worst ones. We don't demand that they be real-life pimps, but we also don't demand that they have hearts of gold. Teeth will do just fine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paula Jai Parker and Terrence Howard in the film ''Hustle & Flow.'' (Photo by Alan Spearman/Crunk Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GENRES (79%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); WRITERS (70%); BUDGETS (68%) Music; Motion Pictures; Rap Music

PERSON: 50 CENT (79%) Craig Brewer; Kelefa Sanneh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005



550 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Midwest: Illinois: Chicago To Expand O'Hare Airport

BYLINE: By Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

 BODY:
The Federal Aviation Administration approved plans for a $15 billion expansion of O'Hare International Airport in Chicago to increase capacity and reduce congestion and delays at the airport, the world's second busiest. The agency said that it chose the city's plan, which involves building runways and taxiways and modifying others, over about 20 other proposals. 
The final environmental impact statement outlines plans for the city to soundproof homes and schools that would be exposed to high noise levels, put in place emission reduction initiatives and pay for the relocation of graves from one cemetery. Construction could begin immediately after a final decision, which is expected in September, and is scheduled to be completed in 2013. Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AIRLINES (88%); APPROVALS (88%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (69%); EMISSIONS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Airlines and Airplanes; O'Hare International Airport (Chicago); Airports

ORGANIZATION: Federal Aviation Administration

PERSON: Gretchen Ruethling

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



551 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; SUMMER WEEKENDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Campers, Your Parents Are Storming The Gates

BYLINE: By ROBERT ANDREW POWELL

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN CITY, Ga. 

 BODY:
AT a little before 7:30 on a recent Saturday night, the street outside the main gate of Camp Blue Ridge began to resemble a livestock holding pen. A herd of parents, a strange breed dressed in polo shirts, sandals and khaki shorts, waited for the gates to open. A lone father considered how to break the news that his son's grandfather had passed away. A mother from Florida wiped away tears as she waited to see her daughter for the first time in four weeks.
 In the growing crowd were Andrew and Susan Brody, who had driven up 750 miles from their home in Weston, Fla., to visit their daughters, Pam and Samantha, at the midpoint of their eight weeks among the maple and oak trees of northeast Georgia.
When the gates finally opened, and Pam, 10, appeared, the Brodys assumed the position instinctively. As Pam ran toward them they crouched with knees bent like they were fielding ground balls, their arms spread wide as airplane wings. Pam, who hadn't seen her parents for four long weeks, hesitated for a split second while she decided whom to hug first. Then she leaped into her father's arms, locking her hands around his neck. 
 ''Daddy!'' she said, swinging her legs around his back for stability. Pam's mother reached over to join the hug.
 ''You look good!'' Mrs. Brody exclaimed. She grabbed on tighter. ''I missed you so much.''
 The Brodys -- including Pam, obscured in the huddle somewhere, and then later Samantha, too -- were observing parents' visiting day, a tradition at summer sleep-away camps across America. Visiting day is and has always been a day when parents, however briefly, are allowed a glimpse into the cloistered life of summer camp. They meet counselors, sample camp food and inspect exhibitions of plaster of Paris art projects. It is a day for homesick kids to reconnect to lives they've temporarily abandoned. 
 Almost all sleepover summer camps feature red-letter days that punctuate the campers' seemingly endless round of swimming, boating, archery and art classes. At Camp Blue Ridge, there are the three days of color wars and the mid-session expedition to Six Flags Over Georgia. That trip to the amusement park might be more exciting to a young camper, no matter how homesick, than a parents' weekend. 
 But for mothers and fathers, ''parents' visiting day is huge,'' said Mickey Black, who runs Camp Pine Forest in Greeley, Pa., and two other nearby camps with his wife, Barbara. ''It means less to the campers than it does to the parents. The campers are settled in with their friends and a regular pattern of life. As great as it is to see their parents, they're usually just as happy to go back to their friends. It's a pretty good life at camp.''
 But try to convince the anxious parents of 400 girls and boys from ages 7 to 16. Indeed, despite the fact that parents can now view updated pictures of their children on Camp Blue Ridge's Web site nearly every day and receive special e-mail from them every other day, rising parental anxiety has forced changes in how camps handle visiting day. 
 At Blue Ridge, for almost 30 years, visiting day was held on a Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Parents came for lunch, spent a day watching their kids water ski or volley through tennis exhibitions. Lunch was a feast that surpassed the normal camp meal of, say, nachos and ice cream. But, increasingly, on visiting day, parents were slipping onto campus hours early, rousing counselors and barraging them with questions. So six years ago, Joey Waldman, who owns and runs the camp with his wife, Lori, shifted it to Saturday evening. 
 Still, he said, he had resorted to putting a traffic cone at the entrance in an attempt to prevent parents from driving their S.U.V.'s straight up to the residential cabins. ''I've got a poster on the main gate asking parents to please come back at 7:30 p.m. Yet, even still, I'll be in the shower getting ready when I can hear the cars driving up the road.''
 At Mr. Black's camp in Pennsylvania, which still begins visiting day on a Saturday morning, parents are so apt to sneak onto the property hours early that Mr. Black strings yellow plastic tape across the main gate, taking it down only when the official moment has been reached. 
 On visiting day, camp directors face greater challenges than merely overeager parents. For one, they must navigate changes in American society. ''When visitors' days started in the early 1900's, divorce was not as prolific as it is today,'' said Jeff Solomon, executive director of the National Camp Association, ''so these days camps have to be somewhat accommodating on visiting day. They make it flexible for two parents possibly visiting separately. Make it much less formal than it has been in the past.'' 
 Just before the gates opened at Blue Ridge, Pam Brody was talking about how quickly the previous month had flown by. She cracked a knuckle as she thought back on the dance classes and tennis and archery and the field trip to Six Flags. The last three days had passed in a blur, what with color wars and all. ''When parents come I'm so anxious that day,'' she said, tugging on a pink nylon hair band that she likes to wear as a choker. ''Usually when I'm anxious time goes really slow. This month has gone by really fast, but when the day comes to see your parents, it seems so long.''
 Pam arrived at camp in early June, with Samantha, who is three years older, and who had a few more years of camp under her pastel tank top. Pam and her sister are among a minority of campers -- at Blue Ridge and nationwide -- who stay the full eight weeks. Many of their fellow campers went home the day after visiting day.
 ''Thirty years ago, 80 percent of our campers stayed the full eight weeks,'' Mr. Waldman said. ''In the mid-80's, the trend changed, probably for economic reasons, or maybe because families started taking more trips together.'' Nationally, only about 20 percent of camps remain full-season only, and those are mostly in the Northeast, said Mr. Solomon of the camp association.
 Having attended Blue Ridge last year, Pam already knew how to make her cabin feel like home. She set out her frog squishy pillow and a stuffed yellow star, autographed by her cabin mates last year, with an empty side remaining for this year's crew. On a shelf over the top bunk where she sleeps, she placed pictures of her mother and her father, which she kisses every night at lights out, saying, ''See you soon!''
 ''I wasn't as nervous because I'd already been here,'' she recalled. ''I was much more excited than I'd been last year. I didn't feel bad. Like, I miss my parents, but I don't, like, cry about it. So it's much better than last year.''
 Mr. Brody, a C.P.A. in South Florida, attended a camp in Massachusetts that to his astonishment still exists. He said that he had missed his parents, too, back then, but that he loved making new friends. He liked solving problems on his own for the first time in his life. ''It was a great chance to taste independence,'' he said. 
 Mrs. Brody, a former corporate marketing executive, said that she appreciated the way camps have modernized. When she attended camp in upstate New York, there was no e-mail contact with her mother. When she wrote home, her letters took a week to arrive.
 By design there are still no accessible TV's, phones or computers at Blue Ridge. Yet parents can send e-mail messages, which are printed out and distributed every day. The campers reply using a system that scans written (or drawn) messages and forwards them to parents as e-mail. In her mail home, Pam dutifully answers her mom's questions. Did you get the care package? Have you broken your eyeglasses? Are you keeping track of your swimsuits, which you tend to lose in the laundry? 
 Mrs. Brody goes online reflexively, three times a day at least, just to check if there's a new posting of camp pictures or new letters from her daughters. Pam, especially, worries her. ''It's good because last year she'd be sending home letters saying how lonely and homesick she was, but then I'd see some random pictures posted on the Web site, and she certainly looked like she was having fun,'' Mrs. Brody said. ''It's reassuring.''
 Last year, Mr. and Mrs. Brody flew up for visiting day. This year they decided to make a week's vacation of it. It was their first road trip as a couple in 15 years of marriage. From Blue Ridge they continued to Myrtle Beach, where Mr. Brody played several rounds of golf. At the start of the trip, on the drive up from Weston, as their S.U.V. passed the flat citrus groves of Florida into Georgia and then up the rising grade of the Appalachian foothills, they wondered if Pam and Samantha had grown. They wondered how much fun Pam was having. They admitted they missed their daughters terribly.
 ''The house is so quiet,'' Mr. Brody said. ''We're not used to the quiet. At first it was peaceful, but after a while there's an emptiness.''
 At 7:30 p.m., when the main gate officially opened, Pam was in her cabin, caught up in a conversation with a friend. When she realized what time it was, she bounded out, skipping down concrete steps to the main path. 
 Walking quickly, she passed the boys' cabins, the tennis courts and the caretaker's garage. Her gait accelerated with every step. By the time she reached the swimming pond, which is only a hundred yards or so from the gate, she broke into a sprint. She ran past a table stocked with cups of cranberry juice and cellophane-wrapped banana moon pies, then slalomed through a gaggle of teenage girls in much less of a hurry to reach their parents.
 Music blasted from the gym, where a group of boys played pick-up basketball. On the great lawn outside the gym, teams of campers and their parents sat cross-legged, swatting at the first fireflies of the evening. 
 Reunited for a weekend, the Brodys visited a Wal-Mart to stock up on shampoo and makeup. They ate Mexican food, caught a movie and all four spent the night in comfortable hotel beds. Mrs. Brody told Pam that she was talking differently, more maturely. Monday, the girls returned to camp, where they remain for the second month. 
 ''It's hard to leave them,'' Mr. Brody said before heading on to Myrtle Beach with his wife. ''But it's also good to know they're getting out in the world.''
 After her parents left on Monday, and after night fell on the Appalachian foothills, Pam gathered with her friends on the lawn near the tennis courts. It was the Fourth of July. Near the gate where her parents had waited for her, counselors ignited a line of fireworks so long it took 40 minutes until the finale soared skyward. Lee Greenwood and Bruce Springsteen recordings accompanied shimmering gunpowder explosions. Away from her parents, at home with her cabin mates, Pam celebrated independence.

Summer Weekends
 Articles in this series look at the ways Americans spend their leisure time and the traditions that have grown up around the weekend.


GRAPHIC: Photos: REUNION -- Pam Brody, 10, embraces her mother
her father is at right. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
CHANCE TO TALK -- Harrison Auerbach, 8, and his father, David, at Camp Blue Ridge.
 HOMEY -- Pam Brody, right, and Alexis Geffin. At left, Stephanie Thomas, a counselor. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. F3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); ARCHERY (50%) Camps and Camping; Travel and Vacations; Surveys and Series

COMPANY: SIX FLAGS OVER GEORGIA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Camp Blue Ridge (Mountain City, Ga)

PERSON: Robert Andrew Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%) Mountain City (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



552 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Fort That Let Outsiders In; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Castle Garden Set Stage for Ellis Island

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The government has been keeping tabs on immigrants since 1820, and Castle Garden at the Battery, originally built to defend New York from foreigners, was the city's first official debarkation point. It was the gateway for immigrants until 1890, when federal officials took over responsibility for the newcomers, who were processed first at the nearby Barge Office and, starting in 1892, on Ellis Island.
 Ellis Island may claim more of the ancestral spotlight, but Castle Garden was no slouch. More than one in six native-born Americans are descendants of the eight million immigrants who entered the United States through Castle Garden in Lower Manhattan beginning 150 years ago next Monday. 
On Sunday, the Battery Conservancy will celebrate the anniversary with a free concert from 4:30 to 10 p.m. at Castle Clinton, the former fort, concert hall and immigration station that is run by the National Park Service and is part of the National Parks of New York Harbor.
 On Monday, Warrie Price, the founder and president of the conservancy, a nonprofit group formed to rebuild the 23-acre park, will also begin a free Web site for scholarly and genealogical research, CastleGarden.org, which includes a database of more than 10 million of the 12 million immigrants who arrived at the Port of New York from 1820 to 1892. 
 The Web site, an electronic archive and a research center constitute the Battery Conservancy's Center for Castle Garden Immigration. 
 Ms. Price will also officially inaugurate the Bosque fountain, the capstone of an $8.5 million renovation financed by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. A restored statue honoring immigrants and donated by the Rudin real estate family will be rededicated. 
 Before the War of 1812, a circular brownstone fort called the Southwest Battery was built on the rocks off Manhattan Island. In 1817, it was renamed Castle Clinton in honor of DeWitt Clinton, who was the mayor and then the governor. The fort was abandoned by the Army four years later without a shot ever fired at an enemy.
 The fort, where the nation bade farewell to the Marquis de Lafayette, later welcomed Jenny Lind, the ''Swedish Nightingale,'' after the addition of a roof allowed it to be expanded into an opera house and theater.
 Meanwhile, in 1820, Congress began requiring records to be kept of passenger manifests, ostensibly to monitor whether ship owners were overloading their vessels. But the arrival process remained chaotic. Immigrants were besieged at the docks by agents -- many of them unscrupulous -- representing or claiming to represent boardinghouses, employers, railroads and other entrepreneurs who had designs on the newcomers' savings. 
 So in 1855, the state transformed the site from a concert hall to an immigration station. 
 Researchers said they were unable to verify the name of the first passenger processed, but John Celardo, an archivist with the National Archives and Records Administration in New York, said the first one listed on the manifest for the largest of the first five ships that ferried their passengers to Castle Garden from the British Queen, which sailed from Bristol, was a 30-year-old laborer from England named Richard Richards. Castle Garden was connected to the mainland by landfill and surrounded by a 13-foot-high fence to keep the unscrupulous agents out. Newcomers could register, be examined, eat, bathe and arrange for lodging and for transportation for themselves and their baggage before leaving to settle in the city or to travel to other destinations. 
 ''Now, if the emigrant desires to stop in the city,'' The New York Times reported a few days after Castle Garden was reincarnated in 1855, ''he may leave his luggage, to be called for when wanted, and issuing out at the narrow front gate, saunter up Broadway, and squat, or rent, or buy and build as suits his own sweet will -- he is already a prospective American citizen and has the freedom of the city or the land.'' Most, the paper noted, ''are wise enough to push on where they will be welcomed -- to the West.'' 
 Between 1855 and 1890, about eight million immigrants, mostly Germans, Irish, English, Scots, Swedes, Danes, Russians and Italians, passed through Castle Garden. Immigration was virtually unrestricted until 1875, when Congress barred convicts and prostitutes. An 1882 law excluded anyone convicted of a political offense, lunatics, idiots and persons likely to become public charges and imposed a 50-cent tax on every immigrant who arrived by boat.
 In 1890, 450,394 passengers were recorded as passing though Castle Garden. Of those, 364,086 were immigrants. According to the records, 155 had died en route. 
 In 1896, the castle was transformed into the New York Aquarium. It was largely demolished in the early 1940's for an approach to a Battery-to-Brooklyn bridge that was never built. Preservationists persuaded Congress to declare the original fort walls a national monument. 
 Original records of the arrivals, which are also available on microfilm at the National Archives and Records Administration, Northeast Region, in Manhattan, were lent by the archives to create what Ms. Price of the Battery Conservancy described as the first noncommercial digitized database of immigrants that covers almost all the 19th century. The archive was compiled by Ira Glazier, an ethnic historian.
 According to an analysis of census calculations by Joseph P. Ferrie, professor of economic history at Northwestern University, about 30 percent of native-born Americans are descended from immigrants who arrived between 1820 through 1892 through the Port of New York. About 18 percent are related to immigrants who came through Castle Garden and 9 percent to arrivals at Ellis Island during its peak, from 1892 to 1924.
 Scholars and genealogy buffs will now be able to mine the immigration records since 1820 as deeply as they have the trove of arrivals at Ellis Island (at ellisisland.org) through 1924. They know, for instance the first at Ellis Island was 15-year-old Annie Moore, an Irish immigrant from County Cork, whose family moved to 32 Monroe Street in Lower Manhattan and then to Texas, where she was killed by a trolley in 1923. (Her great-grandson, Edward A. Wood, is a plumbing contractor in New Jersey.) 
 The last person processed at Ellis Island was Arne Petterssen, a Norwegian seaman who was sent home 50 years ago for overstaying his work permit.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists buying tickets to Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty. At left, a lithograph showing Castle Garden around 1852. The 150th anniversary of the Castle Garden immigration station, right, will be celebrated with a concert Sunday. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
(Photo by Museum of the City of New York)(pg. B1)
 Visitors sit under the shade of the inner walls at Castle Clinton. The original fort walls have been declared a national monument. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); GENEALOGY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ARMIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Castle Clinton National Monument (NYC); Computers and the Internet; Genealogy; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%) Battery Conservancy

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Ellis Island

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



553 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Higher Jobless Claim Number Still Suggests Strong Labor Market

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits edged up slightly last week but remained at a level indicating a strong labor market.
 The Labor Department reported that 310,000 newly laid-off workers applied for jobless benefits last week. 
That was a small increase of 5,000 claims, but it occurred after a decline of 32,000 in the previous week and left claims at a level indicating the labor market remained healthy.
 The increase last week was better than the increase of 17,000 claims that analysts had expected. 
 Private analysts said the low level of layoffs in the last two weeks showed that the labor market was improving after extensive plant shutdowns in the auto industry in July for retooling for the new model year. 
 Stephen Stanley, chief economist for RBS Greenwich Capital, predicted that employment growth in coming months would average around 180,000 jobs a month, enough to keep the unemployment rate moving lower. Mr. Stanley said there was nothing in the jobless claims report to suggest that labor demand was cooling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (93%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Labor; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: RBS Greenwich Capital; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Stephen Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



554 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Applauding the Cafta 15

 BODY:
In the wee hours yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the Central American Free Trade Agreement by a sliver of two votes. Fifteen Democrats joined 202 Republicans in voting to open up trade between the United States and El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic. Anyone who believes, as this page does, that the benefits of free trade outweigh those of protectionism should give a pat on the back to the Democrats who chose principle over politics and defied their party's leaders to vote for the trade pact. 
 Trade votes are always cliffhangers, and Cafta was no exception. The vote, which started just after 11 p.m., took almost an hour as some Republicans, many from textile states, jockeyed over who would be allowed to vote against the bill and save face back home. But the Republicans who voted for Cafta at least did so knowing that they were ensuring for themselves the approval of their party leaders, including President Bush. Many of the Democrats who voted for the pact knew that they were practically guaranteeing themselves a primary fight come next election. Indeed, organized labor was already talking yesterday morning about extracting revenge. ''Punish the Cafta 15'' was a headline in Working Life, a pro-labor blog.
Labor unions should obviously give their support to anyone they deem fit. But the Cafta 15 deserve respect for their independence and good judgment. Cafta is a modest trade pact, hardly likely to lift the six countries' economies into the 21st century. But it may be enough to lift them into the 20th century by lowering tariffs and helping job growth in a needy region. It should help export growth in America as well. The American Farm Bureau Federation estimated that Cafta could increase United States agricultural exports by nearly $1.5 billion a year; the National Association of Manufacturers said it would add about $1 billion a year to the value of United States exports of manufactured goods.
 Finally, Cafta will benefit the most underrepresented constituency in America: consumers, particularly the lower-income consumers who find that a 50-cent difference in the price of a T-shirt actually means something.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); EXPORT PROMOTION (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Law and Legislation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NICARAGUA (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); COSTA RICA (93%); HONDURAS (93%); GUATEMALA (93%); EL SALVADOR (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%) United States; El Salvador; Costa Rica; Nicaragua; Honduras; Guatemala; Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



555 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Once a Frightened Newcomer, Argentine Consul Now Seeks to Guide Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Twenty-six years ago, as a young political refugee from Argentina, Hector Timerman was afraid to ask police officers for directions. When the landlord of his Greenwich Village apartment failed to provide heat, he just moved. And when he faced a judge in small-claims court, he trembled, remembering judges in Argentina under the military dictatorship that had imprisoned and tortured his father.
 Today, Mr. Timerman, 51, is consul general of a democratic Argentina in New York, a city where he feels thoroughly at home. But he has not forgotten what it is like to be a newcomer. He has just published the consulate's first guide for Argentine immigrants in the New York metropolitan region, who he estimates have grown to 100,000, both legal and illegal. Many are part of an exodus that began in 1994 and soared after Argentina's economic collapse in 2001. They are far needier, and far more likely to be in the United States illegally, than an earlier wave of middle-class professionals who began arriving in the 1960's, or political exiles like Mr. Timerman, whose father, the distinguished journalist Jacobo Timerman, was one of the junta's most celebrated prisoners. 
 At a time of growing American anger over illegal immigration, Mr. Timerman is well aware of the diplomatic risks of producing the free 115-page guide, which answers 195 questions in Spanish about negotiating life in the city, or as he puts it, ''from where to buy Argentine pizza to how to complain about police brutality.'' 
 He stressed that the 5,000 copies would be distributed only to those who have already emigrated, unlike a pamphlet produced by the Mexican government that caused a furor because it instructed migrants on how to safely enter the United States illegally and live here undetected.
 ''We are not promoting immigration from Argentina -- on the contrary,'' said Mr. Timerman, who returned to Argentina in 1989 after spending a decade in New York, where he helped found the advocacy organization Human Rights First. ''The reality is that they are already here. I have to look after them. We cannot abandon them -- they are part of Argentine society.''
 During an interview at the consulate, a neo-Georgian mansion at 12 West 56th Street, just west of Fifth Avenue, Mr. Timerman reflected on the historic turns that made such a guide necessary, and that put him, the grandson of humble Russian Jewish immigrants to Buenos Aires, in the position to publish it.
 For most of its history, Argentina was a country of immigration. But in 2001, the economy collapsed. Whether citizens blamed policies of the International Monetary Fund or government corruption, they were suddenly unable to cash a paycheck. Bank accounts were frozen, and 55 percent of the population sank into poverty. ''People saw no future, especially for their kids,'' the consul said. 
 Most of those who left went to Spain or Italy, but many came to the United States, which between 1994 and 2002 included Argentina among countries whose citizens did not need a visa to visit. By the time Argentines were removed from the visa waiver program, hundreds of thousands who had arrived as tourists were working in the country illegally, trying to rebuild their lives.
 The economy is now improving, and some Argentines are heading back. Ernesto Seman, the consulate's director of community affairs, said about 40 a month show up at the consulate for the necessary customs forms. But many others ask how to survive in New York. 
 To illustrate how badly the guide is needed, Mr. Seman, who wrote it, recalled the case of a woman who was recently waiting in line to renew her passport. She looked so pale, he said, that a staff member kept asking if she was all right. Finally she disclosed that she had been suffering from a urinary tract infection for three weeks, afraid to seek medical attention because she was not a legal immigrant. By the time she was treated, he added, she had to spend a week in the hospital.
 The guide, which is available at the consulate, details the city services available to such immigrants, including public clinics, and emphasizes that workers are forbidden from disclosing immigration status . Along with practicalities like check-cashing establishments and apartment-hunting Web sites, it lists tango spots and Argentine bakeries that are ''helping with nostalgia,'' said Mr. Timerman.
 His own, different brand of nostalgia surfaced when he learned that the photographer shooting his portrait for this article was the same one who had taken his picture in 1979. Then, he was in flight from the regime that would kill thousands of ''desaparecidos'' (the disappeared), among them Mr. Seman's father and two uncles. 
 ''I was very lucky,'' said Mr. Timerman, recalling the influential Americans who embraced him, including members of the Carter administration and Osborn Elliott, then the dean of the journalism school at Columbia University, who swiftly arranged for him to publish an opinion article in Newsweek and sent him to earn a master's degree in international relations. 
 ''You have backlash against the immigrants now, after Sept. 11,'' he said. ''But it's the only country in the world to reach out that way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Argentine consul general, Hector Timerman, above, at the consulate. At left, his guide for immigrants. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); REFUGEES (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); JUDGES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); TORTURE (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WRITERS (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Hector (Consul Gen) Timerman; Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%) New York City; Argentina; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



556 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; RETURN TO SPACE: THE NASA NEIGHBORHOOD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: In Houston, The Euphoria Vanishes 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 28 

 BODY:
Clara Olvera has worked in the cafeteria at the Johnson Space Center here for only a year, but on Thursday afternoon she could detect a shift in the mood of the engineers, astronauts and administrators who come in for lunch each day. The grounding of shuttle flights because of another pesky foam problem, she said, was clearly weighing on spirits.
 ''You can see it in their faces,'' Ms. Olvera said, wiping tabletops after the lunchtime rush. ''It's been a very emotional week, after reaching the goal on Tuesday only to have it all turn around so quickly. We can only hope for the best.'' 
 The mood elsewhere around NASA's manicured campus, and in the restaurants, hotels and bars outside the center along Nasa Road 1, also stood in contrast to the euphoria that had accompanied the launching of the shuttle Discovery just two days earlier. It was clear that some NASA employees, and others who depend on the agency for their livelihood, had been hoping for the celebrations to continue after waiting more than two years for a launching in the wake of the Columbia disaster. 
 ''There's disappointment in the back of people's minds,'' Charla Stuart, a NASA education program specialist, said of the grounding, although, referring to the program's astronauts, she added, ''We need to remember these are people's lives we're talking about.''
 Not everyone called for so much caution. At the Outpost Tavern, a space agency hangout, a group of retired NASA engineers wanted more bravado and less introspection. 
 ''We'd never have made it to the Moon if we had made decisions like this with the Apollo program,'' said Tom Sheehan, 71, a head of the tracking control group for the agency's lunar missions of the 1960's and 70's. ''We had major problems on every Apollo mission, but that never stopped us from pressing ahead.'' 
 ''We don't have technical problems now; we have management problems,'' Mr. Sheehan continued. ''They haven't been holding people's feet to the fire enough.'' 
 Another retiree at Mr. Sheehan's table, Wayne Boatman, a 67-year-old former NASA contractor, said the term ''risk management'' was not part of the agency's vocabulary three or four decades ago.
 ''We were the cowboy types then, and you could say we're retired cowboys now,'' said Mr. Boatman, the only one of the six men at his table wearing a cowboy hat. ''The culture's all about politics these days, about covering for yourself.'' 
 Some people in the community of strip malls, low-slung apartment buildings and subdivisions that has grown around the space center expressed more concern about the economic effect of the shuttle launchings' suspension than about changes in NASA's culture.
 Oscar Martinez, who manages Martin's Mexican Bakery, a business owned by his father that sells sweet bread, soft drinks and pinatas, said he was relieved that a shuttle had finally gotten off the ground. Still, Mr. Martinez said, he has been apprehensively following snippets of television news about the shuttle program's problems, a bit concerned that an earlier setback for Houston could be followed by another.
 ''I think things are fine for now, but the last thing we need is another Enron,'' he said. ''There are a lot of people here who depend on NASA one way or another, so we don't need any problems.'' 
 At Frenchie's Italian Restaurant, its walls lined with photographs of astronauts, including an autographed portrait of the Discovery crew, Frankie Camera, the owner, said he was confident that the space agency would quickly solve the problem with the foam.
 ''They're so meticulous with everything,'' Mr. Camera said. ''I don't want to think negative about this thing, because it's not worth it.'' 
 Such sentiment sounded fine to Mahesh Patel, who joined the agency in the early 1980's and now works in the shuttle simulation group. 
 ''It's too early to jump to conclusions about this,'' Mr. Patel said. ''This calls for a little more focus.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (88%); SPACECRAFT (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (62%); RETAILERS (50%) Space; Space Shuttle; Discovery (Space Shuttle); Accidents and Safety

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (91%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Johnson Space Center

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); EARTH'S MOON (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



557 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: French Family Values

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Americans tend to believe that we do everything better than anyone else. That belief makes it hard for us to learn from others. For example, I've found that many people refuse to believe that Europe has anything to teach us about health care policy. After all, they say, how can Europeans be good at health care when their economies are such failures?
 Now, there's no reason a country can't have both an excellent health care system and a troubled economy (or vice versa). But are European economies really doing that badly? 
The answer is no. Americans are doing a lot of strutting these days, but a head-to-head comparison between the economies of the United States and Europe -- France, in particular -- shows that the big difference is in priorities, not performance. We're talking about two highly productive societies that have made a different tradeoff between work and family time. And there's a lot to be said for the French choice.
 First things first: given all the bad-mouthing the French receive, you may be surprised that I describe their society as ''productive.'' Yet according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, productivity in France -- G.D.P. per hour worked -- is actually a bit higher than in the United States. 
 It's true that France's G.D.P. per person is well below that of the United States. But that's because French workers spend more time with their families.
 O.K., I'm oversimplifying a bit. There are several reasons why the French put in fewer hours of work per capita than we do. One is that some of the French would like to work, but can't: France's unemployment rate, which tends to run about four percentage points higher than the U.S. rate, is a real problem. Another is that many French citizens retire early. But the main story is that full-time French workers work shorter weeks and take more vacations than full-time American workers.
 The point is that to the extent that the French have less income than we do, it's mainly a matter of choice. And to see the consequences of that choice, let's ask how the situation of a typical middle-class family in France compares with that of its American counterpart. 
 The French family, without question, has lower disposable income. This translates into lower personal consumption: a smaller car, a smaller house, less eating out.
 But there are compensations for this lower level of consumption. Because French schools are good across the country, the French family doesn't have to worry as much about getting its children into a good school district. Nor does the French family, with guaranteed access to excellent health care, have to worry about losing health insurance or being driven into bankruptcy by medical bills. 
 Perhaps even more important, however, the members of that French family are compensated for their lower income with much more time together. Fully employed French workers average about seven weeks of paid vacation a year. In America, that figure is less than four.
 So which society has made the better choice? 
 I've been looking at a new study of international differences in working hours by Alberto Alesina and Edward Glaeser, at Harvard, and Bruce Sacerdote, at Dartmouth. The study's main point is that differences in government regulations, rather than culture (or taxes), explain why Europeans work less than Americans. 
 But the study also suggests that in this case, government regulations actually allow people to make a desirable tradeoff -- to modestly lower income in return for more time with friends and family -- the kind of deal an individual would find hard to negotiate. The authors write: ''It is hard to obtain more vacation for yourself from your employer and even harder, if you do, to coordinate with all your friends to get the same deal and go on vacation together.'' 
 And they even offer some statistical evidence that working fewer hours makes Europeans happier, despite the loss of potential income. 
 It's not a definitive result, and as they note, the whole subject is ''politically charged.'' But let me make an observation: some of that political charge seems to have the wrong sign.
 American conservatives despise European welfare states like France. Yet many of them stress the importance of ''family values.'' And whatever else you may say about French economic policies, they seem extremely supportive of the family as an institution. Senator Rick Santorum, are you reading this? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); TRENDS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); WORK WEEK (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); EARLY RETIREMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Working Hours; Productivity

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%) France; France

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



558 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: A Medium in the Making: Slicing Familiar Films Into Something New

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
Movie-loving artists divide roughly into two groups, fans and users. The fans flock to films, or the nearest video rental store, for both respite and inspiration; they discuss and sometimes write about what they see with distinctive intelligence. Their numbers are legion; their apotheosis is probably Manny Farber, the artist who had a distinguished career as a film critic before turning to painting full time.
 The users are such impassioned, if not addicted, cinephiles that movies become the central component of their art. Films are not just inspiration for these artists; they are raw material that can be appropriated, manipulated and reshaped into another work of art, with their names on the credit line.
The user population, while hardly legion, is growing. Spurs to their expanding ranks include Pop Art and Andy Warhol's films; the widespread photo-appropriation of 1980's art (it is a short step from still to moving images); and the advent of digital video and computer editing. The last greatly increased the reach of video, although artists like Jack Goldstein and Dara Birnbaum were appropriating from film and television in the early 80's. Over the last 10 or 15 years, the recycling of existing films into art has been taken for granted. 
 Which makes it interesting that ''CUT/Film as Found Object in Contemporary Video'' at the Milwaukee Art Museum is the first exhibition in an American museum to focus on film appropriation in contemporary art, or more precisely, contemporary video. The show, which was first seen in December at the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, Fla., has been organized by Stefano Basilico, a former adjunct curator of contemporary art at the Milwaukee museum who once ran an art gallery in SoHo and now works as an art adviser in New York. 
 With 14 works by eight artists that mostly date from 2000 or later, ''CUT'' is in many ways a small show of recent art. But with a spacious, well-choreographed installation that moves from lighter to darker galleries, it covers quite a bit of ground in terms of the ways, means and end results of film appropriation. It also includes some recent standouts of the genre, including Douglas Gordon's 1993 ''24-Hour Psycho'' (which is just that) and Christian Marclay's 2002 ''Video Quartet,'' a rousing homage to the silver screen.
 In addition, the exhibition gains in scale because movies and moving images in general are so much with us. They take up a lot of the cultural landscape, both reflecting and conditioning society, forming a kind of collective dream life. Needless to say, this gives artists a lot to work with psychologically, formally, narratively and in terms of spectacle, stereotypes, stars and the culture and protocols of moviemaking. 
 Of course borrowing from and, in essence, privatizing something as public and elaborately collaborative as a movie can be a particularly aggressive, even Oedipal, form of artmaking. But it can also be pure laziness. It gives an artist's work an instant worldly aura, and the viewer the reflexive thrill of finding a bit of Hollywood in a gallery or a museum. But then what happens? 
 Do artists exploit our susceptibility to the movies? Do they reshape their borrowings enough for their work to achieve a degree of autonomy? Or do you come away feeling that, when all is said and done, you would just as soon look at the original? All these reactions can be had in the darkened galleries of ''CUT/Film as Found Object in Contemporary Video.''
 As the title indicates, Mr. Basilico has concentrated on artists who literally manipulate existing films, for the most part subjecting them to extreme editing or screening them in unusual ways. The galleries almost echo with Jasper Johns's famous working principle: ''Take an object. Do something to it. Do something else to it.''
 Works by Mr. Marclay, an artist-musician and splicing genius, bracket the show. It opens with his 1995 ''Telephones,'' which samples scenes from scores of Hollywood movies in which actors answer, talk on or hang up telephones and melds these moments, almost always turning points in the plot, into a single conversation. 
 It ends with ''Video Quartet,'' a four-screen extravaganza that lifts musical sequences and various dramatically noisy scenes (war, people screaming from all sorts of movies, Oscar Levant playing the piano and Meryl Streep portraying a violinist) and arranges them in a delirious crescendo of song and emotion that gives the phrase ''visual music'' a whole new life. 
 Such adept slicing and dicing is a recurring technique here. It is least interesting in Michael Joaquin Grey's admittedly jewel-like ''Blink,'' which miniaturizes bits of Leni Riefenstahl's ''Olympia'' to the tune of Bjork's version of ''Leaving on a Jet Plane.'' In ''CNN Concatenated,'' Omer Fast edits scores of one-word snippets spoken by various television newscasters into a monologue that no talking head would ever give.
 In a major feat of cross-referencing called ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' Kevin and Jennifer McCoy have taken 21 films set in that desert city and rearranged their scenes according to 120 categories, each on a separate DVD. (The piece has an elaborate carrying case/display station that includes a monitor.)
 The ''Learning From Upholstery'' DVD was playing the day I visited; you can also learn from lingerie, fake monuments, stealing, cowboys, gold and even art. The piece applies Mr. Marclay's telephone principle with a somewhat monotonous anthropological precision, declining the conventions and set-pieces with which most movies are filled. Each DVD functions as a kind of chart, tracing the way these conventions change with time and according to the quality of the movie.
 The weapon of choice of Candice Breitz, a South African artist, is shrinkage, achieved by much slicing but without any disruption of continuity. Her ''Soliloquy Trilogy'' trims ''Basic Instinct,'' ''Dirty Harry'' and ''The Witches of Eastwick'' of everything but those minutes when the leads of those films -- Sharon Stone, Clint Eastwood and Jack Nicholson -- are on screen (or speaking just off camera). This brutal crunching creates a loose allegory about a fallen woman who finds her soul, a good man who sins, and the Devil, who never changes.
 It also extracts the high voltage of the movie star and the function of a lead character; while never on screen for more than eight or nine minutes in total, each actor conveys the gist of the movie's narrative.
 Paul Pfeiffer goes beyond eliminating or rearranging sequences to changing the images themselves. In his haunting ''Long Count,'' three short loops on tiny monitors show films of Muhammad Ali's boxing matches with Sonny Liston, George Foreman and Joe Frazier. In all the figures of the boxers have been digitally erased. Their ghostly residue and the rapt audience exemplify Mr. Pfeiffer's disturbing yet magical meditations on the role of race and black athletes in American society.
 Subtraction is not always the path taken. Mr. Gordon's ''24-Hour Psycho'' stretches Hitchcock's classic suspense movie into an excruciating yet oddly riveting nonsuspense experience. Mired in slowness, and projected on a double-sided screen in the middle of a gallery, ''Psycho'' acquires a monumentality that seems commensurate with its place in the popular imagination.
 The most emotionally powerful work in the show is Pierre Huyghe's 1998 ''L'Ellipse,'' a triple projection that is also the only one to add to an existing film. Mr.Huyghe has created a scene that was never actually part of Wim Wenders's 1977 movie ''The American Friend,'' but was merely implied by that directorial staple of pacing and economy, a jump cut. The omitted scene is a 10-minute walk that would have been taken by Jonathan, played by Bruno Ganz, from his room in a Paris hotel, across the Seine, to a friend's apartment, where he learns that he has a fatal disease.
 In the original film, the action jumps from the hotel scene, played on the first screen, to the elevator of the apartment building and Jonathan's subsequent reading of his doctor's report (which is false), a sequence that plays on the third screen. However, Mr. Huyghe's work pauses in between, on the middle screen, to show us in a single tracking shot, Mr. Ganz, now 20 years older, taking the anxious walk Jonathan never took in the film. One result is an emotionally rich conflation; the 1977 fiction is extended in real 1998 time, when Mr. Ganz's own life is two decades further along, and undoubtedly more shadowed by the prospect of death. 
 Despite the literalness of its title, this show is not entirely faithful to its premises. Mr. Fast's CNN images are taken from television, while ''Horror Chase,'' another work by the McCoys, is appropriation-free. Made from scratch but relying heavily on movie convention, it shows a terrified man, pursued by an unseen monster, hurtling endlessly through the rooms of a movie-set house, because the film repeatedly changes direction, running backward and forward.
 Such fissures highlight the absence of works using found video like ''Dial History,'' Johan Grimonprez's harrowing television news collage about airplane hijackings, or Seth Price's recent, rather brilliant usurpation of some raw video shot by Joan Jonas in the early 1970's. They also open the show to the many works in which an existing film is restaged or refilmed, like Cheryl Donegan's remake of Godard's ''Contempt''; Brice Dellsperger's cross-dressed versions of ''Dressed to Kill''; Jon Routson's movie-house bootlegs.
 Still, ''CUT'' brings needed curatorial clarity to an expanding genre that is challenging to survey. The catalog provides an expansive backdrop by flanking Mr. Basilico's lucid discussion of the works with essays by Rob Yeo, on the history of film appropriation in underground film (starting with Joseph Cornell), and by Lawrence Lessig, on the creative chill that recent changes in copyright law are bringing to the arts.
 You come away from this show with a new sense of film as a found object; as an immense reservoir of untapped form and feeling; and as a highly charged raw material by which artists can celebrate, examine and stave off the deluge of images bearing down on us from all sides. 

''CUT/Film as Found Object in Contemporary Video'' remains at the Milwaukee Art Museum, 700 North Art Museum Drive, (414)224-3200, through Sept. 11.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A composite of images from ''CNN Concatenated,'' a video by Omer Fast. (Photo by Postmasters Gallery/Milwaukee Art Museum)(pg. E27)
''Horror Chase,'' left, by Kevin and Jennifer McCoy, is appropriation-free but relies heavily on movie convention. In another McCoy piece, ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' above, scenes from films set in that desert city have been rearranged. Top, Pierre Huyghe's ''L'Ellipse'' adds a new scene to an existing film. (Photo by Marian Goodman Gallery/Milwaukee Art Museum)
(Photos by Milwaukee Art Museum
 right, Postmasters Gallery/Milwaukee Art Museum)(pg.E29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (79%) Art; Motion Pictures ; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Milwaukee Art Museum

PERSON: Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



559 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 16219 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: July 29 -- Aug. 4

 BODY:

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Previews and Openings

'DAPH!' Opens Wednesday. Parties, photo shoots, fame -- life is grand for Daphne Dumas (at least in her own mind) (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-4200.

'OEDIPUS AT PALM SPRINGS' Opens Wednesday. What hath gay marriage wrought? Find out in the Five Lesbian Brothers' comic spin on Greek tragedy, which they are calling the ''feel weird lesbian tragicomedy of the year'' (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)460-5475.

'THE DEAR BOY' Previews start Monday. Opens Aug. 8. On the verge of retirement, an English teacher reflects on what might have been in Dan O'Brien's new play (1:40). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212)246-4422.

'DEDICATION, OR THE STUFF OF DREAMS' Opens Aug. 18. Nathan Lane and Marian Seldes star in a new Terrence McNally play about a couple who want to buy a theater in upstate New York (2:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-4200.

'JOY' Previews start Sunday. Opens Aug. 14. Formerly titled ''The Joy of Gay Sex,'' John Fisher's romantic comedy, which received its New York premiere earlier this year, follows a group of college friends over the course of one eventful year in San Francisco (2:00). The Actor's Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200.

'LENNON' Opens Aug. 14. The latest jukebox musical (with a Yoko-approved biographical story of this beloved musician) boasts three rare and unpublished tunes to go with all your old favorites (2:10). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200.

'ONCE AROUND THE SUN' Opens Aug. 11. A musician/wedding singer gets an opportunity to sign with a major label, but that will mean leaving his bandmates behind. A musical about selling out (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200.

'ONE-MAN STAR WARS TRILOGY' Previews start Tuesday. Opens Aug. 9. Has the prospect of the end of the ''Star Wars'' series sent you into a deep, dark depression? Cheer up with Charles Ross's light-speed spin through the original three movies (you know, the good ones), in which he plays all the parts, including the ships (1:00). Lamb's Theater, 130 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200.

Broadway

'ALL SHOOK UP' In a pint-size theater with a campy young cast, ''All Shook Up'' might be a moderate hoot. Inflated to Broadway proportions, it's a mind-numbing holler (2:10). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212)307-4100.(Ben Brantley)

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldberg-esque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE CONSTANT WIFE' A stylish production of a creaky 1926 comedy by W. Somerset Maugham. Kate Burton stars as a well-heeled English wife who scarcely raises an eyebrow at her husband's philandering, scandalizing her friends. Maugham's dialogue isn't quite as witty as the brisk Ms. Burton and Lynn Redgrave, who plays her imperious mother, manage to make it sound (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212)719-1300.(Charles Isherwood)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper, this tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial, 249 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' From the moment it sounds its first word in this placid revival, the voice of Harvey Fierstein (who has replaced Alfred Molina in the central role of Tevye) makes the audience prick up its ears. Whether that voice fits comfortably into the Russian village of Anatevka is another issue. But at least it brings a bit of zest to this abidingly bland production (2:55). Minskoff, 200 West 45th Street, (212)307-4100.(Brantley)

* 'GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS' (Tony Award, Best Play Revival 2005) Highly caffeinated bliss. Watching Joe Mantello's hopping revival of David Mamet's play about a dog-eat-dog real estate office is like having espresso pumped directly into your bloodstream. But what's a little lost sleep when you've had the chance to see a dream-team ensemble, including Liev Schreiber and Alan Alda, pitching fast-ball Mamet dialogue with such pure love for the athletics of acting (1:50)? Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'JACKIE MASON: FRESHLY SQUEEZED' Jackie Mason has so cunningly manufactured and marketed his dyspeptic comic persona -- the herky-jerky movements used to embellish the routines, the voice that's like a sinus infection with a bad back -- that he may soon be able to refine all actual jokes out of his act, and still slay 'em. That's chutzpah. And quite a talent, too (2:05). Hayes, 240 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE PILLOWMAN' For all its darkness of plot and imagery, Martin McDonagh's tale of a suspected child murderer in a totalitarian state dazzles with a brightness now largely absent from Broadway. Exquisitely directed and designed, ''The Pillowman'' features top-of-the-line performances from Billy Crudup, Jeff Goldblum, Zeljko Ivanek and Michael Stuhlbarg (2:40). Booth, 222 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'PRIMO' In his crystalline adaptation of ''If This Is a Man,'' Primo Levi's memoir of the Holocaust, Antony Sher creates a portrait in which brutal memory penetrates the very marrow of existence. His great accomplishment is in doing so in an expressly theatrical language that never sensationalizes, lectures or begs for pity (1:30). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Still, it seems safe to say that such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence will find a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert, 225 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical, directed by Walter Bobbie and choreographed by Wayne Cilento, never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around. (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

*'WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF?' Everybody ultimately loses in Edward Albee's great marital wrestling match of a play from 1962. But theatergoers who attend this revealingly acted new production, starring a superb Kathleen Turner and Bill Irwin, are destined to leave the Longacre feeling like winners (2:50). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

*'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'BORDER/CLASH: A LITANY OF DESIRES' With razor-sharp cheekbones and two voluminous puffs of hair resting on top of a delicate wisp of a body, Staceyann Chin, the author and star of this new autobiographical solo show, is a caricaturist's dream. Her appealing if not terribly original show follows her from a tumultuous childhood in Jamaica to New York City, where she starred on Broadway in ''Russell Simmons' Def Poetry Jam.'' (1:30). The Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212)307-4100. (Jason Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty at Dodger Stages is a mixed blessing. Providing theatergoers a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodgers Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

'FATAL ATTRACTION: A GREEK TRAGEDY' This parody of the pompous 1980's movie has a weak script and a game Corey Feldman in the Michael Douglas role. But unlike the bunny, which is indeed boiled, it never cooks (1:10). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212)279-4200. (Andrea Stevens)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'LAZER VAUDEVILLE' If this isn't an ancient showbiz rule, it ought to be: things will look a lot more impressive if they are done in the dark with a heavy dose of fluorescence. That seems to be the guiding principle behind this hodgepodge of juggling, rope twirling and such, delivered wordlessly by the cast (1:30). Lambs Theater, 130 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Neil Genzlinger)

'MANUSCRIPT' Three talented, attractive young actors and some skillfully shaggy dialogue are the only reasons to see Paul Grellong's inconsequential play, a revenge tale centering on the theft of an unpublished manuscript expected to be of great literary merit. Implausibility is a big problem: there are plot holes here you could easily drive a hardback copy of ''Infinite Jest'' through (1:30). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS!' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater; parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs are smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get in this case (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 5, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Margo Jefferson)

*'ORSON'S SHADOW' Austin Pendleton's play, about a 1960 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros'' directed by Orson Welles and starring Laurence Olivier, is a sharp-witted but tenderhearted backstage comedy about the thin skins, inflamed nerves and rampaging egos that are the customary side effects when sensitivity meets success (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE PARIS LETTER' Jon Robin Baitz's ambitious but schematic play is a morality tale about a misspent life and the dangers of sexual repression. Cleanly directed by Doug Hughes, it features a pair of excellent performances by the superb actors John Glover and Ron Rifkin. But Mr. Baitz is himself trapped in the mechanical working of an overcomplicated plot (2:00). Roundabout Theater Company, at the Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212)719-1300. (Isherwood)

'PHILADELPHIA, HERE I COME!' Ciaran O'Reilly's small but spirited production of Brian Friel's mournful and funny 1964 play centers on a lonely young man preparing to flee the small-minded Irish backwater he grew up in for the big time in the U.S. of A. Michael FitzGerald and James Kennedy are nicely contrasted as the public and private faces of a man at a painful emotional crossroads (2:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)727-2737. (Isherwood)

'THE SKIN GAME' A powerful performance by James Gale propels the Mint Theater's revival of ''The Skin Game.'' The Nobel laureate John Galsworthy's drama about two English families whose differences escalate into destructive conflict provides provocative and entertaining theater (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)315-0231. (Van Gelder)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212)307-4100. (Van Gelder)

*'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative. Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THRILL ME: THE LEOPOLD & LOEB STORY' The story is familiar, and the script and lyrics are not especially innovative, but somehow Stephen Dolginoff's pocket musical about the Leopold and Loeb murder case lands like a well-placed punch (1:20). York Theater Company, at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, (212)868-4444. (Genzlinger)

'TWELFTH NIGHT' Just because the Aquila Theater's broad, crowd-pleasing interpretation lacks subtlety doesn't mean that it's not effective, in its way. Even if the costumes are a bit too cute -- are the oversize codpieces really necessary? -- the design is crisp and nicely realized, and the performances have more verve and clarity than most summer Shakespeare productions (2:15). Baruch, 25th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues, (212)279-4200. (Zinoman)

*'WALK TWO MOONS' Theaterworks/NYC, the new, ''stationary'' arm of the traveling group Theaterworks/USA, starts things off with an appealing adaptation of the tweener novel by Sharon Creech, a Newbery Medal winner. A 13-year-old girl travels cross-country with her nutty grandparents in search of her mother, telling a tallish tale about her friend Phoebe along the way, to hilarious effect (1:10). Lortel, 121 Christopher Street, (212)279-4200. (Genzlinger)

Off Off Broadway

* 'BUSTED JESUS COMIX' Based on the story of the only cartoonist ever to be tried and convicted of obscenity, this nicely performed 65-minute satire belongs to a rich dramatic tradition of turning dirty-minded artists into First Amendment heroes. David Johnston's script touches on the trial and fills out an invented biography that gives the play a satisfying arc. Access Theater , 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (212)868-4444. (Zinoman)

'THE GUT GIRLS' Like the large unwieldy carcass the Victorian-era characters must tackle in a slaughterhouse, this preachy British play by Sarah Daniels doesn't yield to either the director or the dialect coach in this revival, though several actresses manage to surmount the obstacles in a fashion (2:45). Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212)868-4444. (Stevens)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh -- sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador, 219 West 49th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100.(Brantley)

'NAKED BOYS SINGING' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:05). Julia Miles Theater, 414 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Anita Gates)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'SCREEN PLAY' A.R. Gurney's gleefully partisan retooling of the film ''Casablanca'' sets one tough saloon owner's battle between idealism and cynicism in Buffalo in the 21st century. Staged by Jim Simpson as a deftly orchestrated reading, ''Screen Play'' turns out to be more than a quick collegiate caper; it's a morally indignant work that fights frivolity with frivolity (1:10). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212)352-3101, closing tomorrow. (Brantley)

'STEEL MAGNOLIAS' Despite an ensemble featuring high-profile veterans of stage, film and television, sitting through this portrait of friendship among Southern women, set in a beauty parlor in small-town Louisiana, is like watching nail polish dry (2:20). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200, closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'TOP TEN' Peter Gil-Sheridan's ''Top Ten'' is a paint-by-numbers series of stereotypes. The cardboard characters and predictable permutations are, in fact, numbered. Each vignette is presented as a sort of plot equation that never really adds up. This theatrical lottery, lasting more than two hours, may soon make you feel in need of a remedial math course. ''Top Ten'' is even less than the sum of its parts. Sanford Meisner Theater, 164 11th Avenue, near 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)868-4444, closing Sunday. (Phoebe Hoban)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

*'BAD NEWS BEARS' (PG-13, 111 minutes) Filled with small, cute kids and large, goofy laughs and kept aloft by Billy Bob Thornton's ribald star turn, Richard Linklater's remake of the 1976 sports comedy won't rock your movie world. But the fact that the filmmaker keeps the freak flag flying in the face of our culture of triumphalism is a thing of beauty. (Manohla Dargis)

*'BATMAN BEGINS' (PG-13, 137 minutes) Conceived in the shadow of American pop rather than in its bright light, this tense, effective iteration of Bob Kane's original comic book owes its power and pleasures to a director (Christopher Nolan) who takes his material seriously and to a star (a terrific Christian Bale) who shoulders that seriousness with ease. ''Batman Begins'' is the seventh live-action film to take on the comic-book legend and the first to usher it into the kingdom of movie myth. (Dargis)

*'THE BEAT THAT MY HEART SKIPPED' (No rating, 107 minutes) This electrifying French film is the story of an enforcer and would-be concert pianist that hinges on the struggle between the two sides of the male animal, the beauty and the beast. For the adult moviegoer, the film is a well-timed gift; it's also essential viewing. (Dargis)

'THE BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY' (R, 125 minutes, in English and Vietnamese) A young man leaves Vietnam hoping to find his father, an American soldier. Earnest and sometimes clumsy, but also affecting. (A.O. Scott)

'BEWITCHED' (PG-13, 90 minutes) Nicole Kidman stars as a real nose-twitching witch cast in a sitcom redo of ''Bewitched.'' The movie is agreeably watchable for an hour, so it's too bad that the director, Nora Ephron, forgot that a gimmick is no substitute for a screenplay, never mind a real movie. (Dargis)

* 'CATERINA IN THE BIG CITY' (No rating, 106 minutes, in Italian) In this contemporary political allegory from Italy, a disgruntled teacher and his family move from the country to Rome, where his 12-year-old daughter finds herself the object of a furious tug of war between two cliques, one left-wing and bohemian, the other right-wing and materialist. Bold, richly textured and entertaining.(Stephen Holden)

'CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY' (PG, 116 minutes) Flawed but fascinating. Some of the departures from the book will make Roald Dahl fans roll their eyes, but some of the visuals will make their eyes (and everyone else's) pop. (Scott)

'CINDERELLA MAN' (PG-13, 144 minutes) The best parts of Ron Howard's ingratiating Depression-era weepie about the boxing underdog-turned-topdog James J. Braddock are, unsurprisingly, Russell Crowe and Paul Giamatti, actors who could steal a movie from a basket of mewling kittens and an army of rosy-cheeked orphans. Renee Zellweger also stars. (Dargis)

'CRASH' (R, 107 minutes) A gaggle of Los Angeles residents from various economic and ethnic backgrounds collides, sometimes literally, within an extremely hectic 36 hours. Well-intentioned, impressively acted, but ultimately a speechy, ponderous melodrama of liberal superstition masquerading as realism. (Scott)

'CRONICAS' (R, 98 minutes, in Spanish and English) John Leguizamo is an ambitious, unscrupulous Miami reporter for a tabloid television show on the track of a serial murderer of children in an Ecuadorian village. (Holden)

'DARK WATER' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Make that dark, stagnant water.(Dargis)

'FANTASTIC FOUR' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Mediocre at best. (Scott)

*'GEORGE A. ROMERO'S LAND OF THE DEAD' (R, 94 minutes) An excellent freakout of a movie in which the living and the zombies alternate between their roles as hunters and hunted. The twist here is that as the walking dead have grown progressively more human, the living have slowly lost touch with their humanity. You won't go home hungry.(Dargis)

* 'HAPPY ENDINGS' (R, 130 minutes) An ensemble piece about a miscellany of Angelenos bumping against one another with love and in anger, Don Roos's slyly subversive new movie is a drama disguised as a wisp of a comedy, and a road map to the way we live now. With Lisa Kudrow and the sublime Maggie Gyllenhaal. (Dargis)

'HERBIE: FULLY LOADED' (G, 95 minutes) ''Herbie: Fully Loaded'' is a perfectly silly movie for a silly season that in recent years has forgotten how to be this silly. Lindsay Lohan, who combines a tomboyish spunk with a sexy, head-turning strut, gives it a charismatic star boost. (Holden)

'THE HONEYMOONERS' (PG-13, 90 minutes) Not the greatest, baby, but not as bad as it might have been. (Scott)

*'HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE' (PG, 118 minutes) The latest animated enchantment from Hayao Miyazaki. Lovely to look at, full of heart and mystery. ( Scott)

'HUSTLE & FLOW' (R, 114 minutes) Terrence Howard is superb as a Memphis pimp chasing his dream of hip-hop stardom in a movie that is an awkward mix of realism, misogyny and Hollywood hokum. (Scott)

'KICKING AND SCREAMING' (PG, 90 minutes) A so-so family sports comedy with Will Ferrell acting goofy, and Robert Duvall (as the father of Mr. Ferrell's character and a rival youth soccer coach) parodying his performance in ''The Great Santini.'' The story follows a venerable Hollywood formula: its lesson is that winning isn't everything, but of course once you learn this lesson, you'll win big, anyway. (Scott)

'LADIES IN LAVENDER' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Two dames of the British empire (Judi Dench and Maggie Smith) inhabit spinster sisters in Cornwall who nurse a handsome Polish violinist back to health in 1936. Amiably bogus. (Holden)

*'LAST DAYS' (R, 97 minutes) An impressionistic portrait, ''Last Days'' is, in many ways, less about the death of Kurt Cobain than about the resurrection of Gus Van Sant, even as it is also about the mystery of human consciousness, the ecstasy of creation and about how sorrow sometimes goes hand in hand with the sublime. (Dargis)

'MADAGASCAR' (PG, 86 minutes) Like many computer-animated features, this one, about four celebrity-voiced animals exiled from the Central Park Zoo, expends most of its imaginative resources on clever visuals. These, in the end, are not enough to compensate for the lack of interesting narrative, real characters or jokes on subjects other than flatulence, excrement and contemporary pop culture. (Scott)

'MAD HOT BALLROOM' (PG, 105 minutes) This documentary follows fifth graders from three very different New York City public schools as they prepare to compete in a ballroom dancing tournament. The sight of 10-year-olds trying to master the graceful, grown-up motions of the fox trot and the tango is charming, and the glimpses of their lives in and outside of school are fascinating, though unfortunately the film offers little more than glimpses. (Scott)

'MAKING GRACE' (No rating, 86 minutes) An intimate documentary focusing on a 30-something lesbian couple who want to become parents, this is the kind of film rarely seen by those who would benefit most from its universal message.(Jeannette Catsoulis)

*'MARCH OF THE PENGUINS' (G, 80 minutes) This sentimental but riveting documentary follows the one-year mating cycle of emperor penguins in Antarctica when they leave the ocean and march inland to breed and lay eggs. Narrated by Morgan Freeman, the film has no qualms about playing on our emotions. (Holden)

'MR. AND MRS. SMITH' (PG-13, 112 minutes) What counts in a movie like this are stars so dazzling that we won't really notice or at least mind the cut-rate writing (from Simon Kinberg) and occasionally incoherent action (from the director, Doug Liman). Sometimes Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie succeed in their mutual role as sucker bait, sometimes they don't, which is why their new joint venture is alternately a goof and a drag. (Dargis)

'MONSTER-IN-LAW' (PG-13, 102 minutes) Jane Fonda finds a zany, good-natured verve in a dragon-lady caricature that mirrors a comedy so desperate to avoid offending that it runs in panic from every issue it brings up but refuses to address. (Holden)

*'MURDERBALL' (R, 86 minutes) The brutal, highly competitive sport of wheelchair rugby is the subject of the exciting and uplifting (but never mawkish) documentary about the redemptive power of fierce athletic competition. (Holden)

* 'MYSTERIOUS SKIN' (Not rated, 99 minutes) Gregg Araki, onetime bad boy of the New Queer Cinema, has made a heartbreaking and surpassingly beautiful film out of Scott Heim's clear-eyed novel about two Kansas boys dealing with the consequences of their sexual abuse by a Little League coach. Superb performances, especially by Joseph Gordon-Levitt. (Scott)

'9 SONGS' (No rating, 69 minutes) Graphically photographed scenes of an attractive young couple having real, not simulated, sex, are interwoven with concert performances of rock songs played by various bands. The couplings reveal little about who these people are. (Holden)

'NOVEMBER' (R, 89 minutes) The twisty paranoid thriller about a photographer's survivor's guilt and repressed memory in the wake of her boyfriend's murder is a surreal cinematic mind-tickler with not much behind its clever facade. (Holden)

* 'SARABAND' (R, 107, in Swedish) Ingmar Bergman has called his bleak, unbendingly severe made-for-television epilogue to ''Scenes From a Marriage'' his final statement on film. As you watch his swan song, which stars Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson as the embattled ex-spouses, you feel the crushing weight of time pressing in around them. (Holden)

*'STAR WARS: EPISODE III -- REVENGE OF THE SITH' (PG-13, 142 minutes) George Lucas saved the best -- or at least one of the best -- for the end. Or for the middle. In any case, the saga is now complete and has regained much of its original glory. (Scott)

' WAR OF THE WORLDS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) The aliens invade (again). Effectively scary and visually impressive. (Scott)

'WEDDING CRASHERS' (R, 113 minutes) A wink-wink, nudge-nudge Trojan horse of a story, this amiably raunchy sex comedy pivots on two Lotharios persuasively inhabited by Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn, who love the ladies, but really and truly, cross their cheating hearts, just want a nice girl to call wife. Credited to the screenwriters Steve Faber and Bob Fisher. (Dargis)

Film Series

'THE CONFORMIST' (through Aug. 11). Film Forum is screening a new 35-millimeter print of Bernardo Bertolucci's 1970 masterpiece about sex and politics in pre-World War II Italy. Jean-Louis Trintignant stars as a young Fascist assigned to assassinate his onetime mentor in Paris. 209 West Houston Street, South Village, (212)727-8110; $10. (Anita Gates)

'DIVAS!' (through Aug. 30). This summer festival, presented by Thalia Film Classics, honors great women in classical movies, with dramas this weekend about movie actresses in doomed relationships. Judy Garland stars in the 1954 ''A Star Is Born,'' about a celebrity whose husband (James Mason) is destroyed by her outshining him. And in ''Sunset Boulevard'' (1950), Gloria Swanson plays a has-been silent-screen star who passionately befriends an aspiring young screenwriter (William Holden). Both films play tomorrow and Tuesday. Leonard Nimoy Thalia, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212)864-1414, $10. (Gates)

'IN DEPPTH' (through Sunday) BAM Cinematek concludes its 11-film, three-week retrospective of Johnny Depp's films this weekend. Lasse Hallstrom's ''What's Eating Gilbert Grape?'' (1993), about a small-town Iowa family with multiple problems, is being shown today. Tomorrow and Sunday, the feature is Jim Jarmusch's anti-western ''Dead Man'' (1995), in which Mr. Depp plays a 19th-century accountant not long for this world. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718)777-3456 or (718)636-4100, $10. (Gates)

ERNST LUBITSCH FILM FESTIVAL (through Aug. 6). Makor, a program of the 92nd Street Y, is screening five films by Lubitsch (1892-1947) on consecutive Saturdays. Tomorrow's feature is ''Ninotchka'' (1939), starring Greta Garbo as a stern Soviet functionary in Paris, tempted by capitalist luxuries and romance. 35 West 67th Street, (212)601-1000, $9. (Gates)

RAOUL WALSH RETROSPECTIVE (through Aug. 14). The Museum of the Moving Image's 23-film tribute to Walsh (1887-1980) continues tomorrow with ''They Died With Their Boots On'' (1941), starring Errol Flynn as George Armstrong Custer. ''Desperate Journey'' (1942), a war movie with Errol Flynn and Ronald Reagan, plays on Sunday. ''High Sierra'' (1941), a gangster film noir with Humphrey Bogart and Ida Lupino, will be shown on Saturday and Sunday. 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718)-784-0077, $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AFRICAN FESTIVAL WITH THOMAS MAPFUMO AND THE BLACKS UNLIMITED, MARIA DE BARROS AND OTHERS (Sunday) A musical pioneer, the Zimbabwean Thomas Mapfumo made music for the revolutionaries who unseated the white-ruled Rhodesian government. His music transferred the brisk patterns of thumb piano to guitar; the words sometimes sent coded messages. The best-known music from Cape Verde is the lilting and pensive morna. Maria de Barros sings some mornas, but also sings other Cape Verdean styles -- including bright, driving funanas -- about love, tradition and women's strength. Gokh-Bi System, Kakande and Alain Nkossi Konda also play. 2 p.m., Celebrate Brooklyn, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, free. (Jon Pareles)

BABY DAYLINER, GREG GARING, GRANT HART (Tonight) Baby Dayliner is the stage name of Ethan Marunas, a keyboard-driven one-man band. He sets up percolating electropop patterns to back neo-cabaret songs that can be droll and cynical or stylishly heartsick. Greg Garing is a songwriter who prizes both the heart-on-sleeve simplicity of honky-tonk and the possibilities of electronica. Grant Hart played pop melodic foil to the more angular Bob Mould in the seminal post-punk band Husker Du. 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700, $10. (Pareles)

BANG ON A CAN (Tuesday) Members of the forward-thinking chamber-music group Bang on a Can All-Stars play a gig with visiting Uzbek musicians. Bang on a Can performers include the percussionist David Cossin, the guitarist Mark Stewart, the cellist Wendy Sutter and the bassist Gregg August. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503, $10. (Laura Sinagra)

BRIAN JONESTOWN MASSACRE (Tomorrow, Sunday and Tuesday) This band's frontman Anton Newcombe resembles the Rolling Stones' washout genius Brian Jones in both his love for wan 1960's psychedelics and his flirtatious relationship with reality. The 2004 rock documentary ''Dig!'' showcases his mix of retro integrity and epic narcissism. Tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $15 to $17. Tuesday at 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201)653-1703, $12 (sold out). (Sinagra)

*THE CASTLE FESTIVAL: WELCOMING THE WORLD FOR 150 YEARS (Sunday) Some 74 million Americans had ancestors who passed through the Castle Garden Immigrant Depot in Battery Park. This concert celebrating its 150th anniversary is a showcase for some of the music and ideas immigrants have brought to the city, with hard-charging salsa by the Spanish Harlem Orchestra, modal Middle-Eastern jazz from Simon Shaheen's Qantara, Irish immigration songs sung by Susan McKeown, African dance by the group Kotchegna, and Albanian traditional and pop songs from Merita Halili and the accordion-powered Raif Hyseni Orchestra. 4:30 to 10 p.m., Castle Clinton National Monument, Battery Park, www.thebattery.org, free. (Pareles)

CROSBY, STILLS AND NASH (Monday and Tuesday) Self-satisfied baby-boom nostalgia and close high harmonies that may be more or less in tune. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212)496-7070, $40 to $100. (Pareles)

DEAD MEADOW (Thursday) Dead Meadow plays hard rock that evokes rolling expanse the way the blues-metal the group loves once evoked misty Gothic castles. This monstrously riff-heavy band's punk roots give its grandeur a humane warmth. 9 p.m., Knitting Factory Main Space, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006, $10. (Sinagra)

DESTINY'S CHILD, AMERIE (Tonight and tomorrow) The R&B diva Beyonce can seem a bit strident in her pursuit of media-blessed perfection, but her urgent, flexible voice is certainly that of a superstar. This concert is supposedly the swan song of the trio known for hits like the sublime heartbreaker ''Say My Name'' and the prematurely hardened ''Survivor.'' The opener, Amerie, matches the constantly climaxing track of her radio hit ''One Thing'' with gutsy assertion. Tonight at 8, Madison Square Garden, (212)465-6741, $55 to $100. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631)888-9000, $39.50 to $92. (Sinagra)

THE DIRTBOMBS, TRALALA (Tonight) The Detroit garage rocker Mick Collins's raw outfit, the Dirtbombs, tears through its live sets, unafraid of dissonance and rough edges. Mr. Collins has a more resonant voice than some of his shouty contemporaries. Local bubblegum rock experiment Tralala tops insistent guitar surge with lackadaisical girl-group vocals. 9 p.m., Knitting Factory Tap Bar, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006, $15. (Sinagra)

DAVE MATTHEWS BAND, BARENAKED LADIES, BLACK EYED PEAS, JEM, MIKE DOUGHTY AND OTHERS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This outdoor lineup should please anybody looking for a noodle-dance vibe without too many extended solos. Dave Matthews still traffics in everyman erotics, while the Black-Eyed Peas play cultural ambassadors to the hip-hop-deprived. The British sprite Jem writes and sings upbeat trip-pop, and the Soul Coughing frontman Mike Doughty spews half-baked urban poetry. Other acts include Randolph and the Family Band and Ray Lamontagne.Noon, Randall's Island Golf Center, 1 Randalls Island, (212)427-5689, $55 to $62 (tomorrow's show sold out). (Sinagra)

DURAN DURAN (Tomorrow and Sunday) Still looking good in white suits after all these years, the new-wave band that gave us hits like ''Hungry Like the Wolf'' puts on a vigorous live show. 8 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Exit 116, Garden State Parkway, Holmdel, N.J., (732)335-0400, $20 to $75. Sunday at 8 p.m., Jones Beach Theater, 1000 Ocean Parkway, Wantagh, N.Y., (516)221-1000, $20 to $75.(Sinagra)

EXTRA ACTION MARCHING BAND, OXFORD COLLAPSE, TALL FIRS, ONEIDA (Tomorrow) The anarchic San Francisco Extra Action Marching Band began as a ''procession band'' for the raucousCrash Worship. As of late, the core group, with its horns, drum corps and shimmying dancers, has played dates with David Byrne. The local trio Oxford Collapse offers shaggy art-rock that recalls acerbic mid-American forbears like the Embarrassment. Tall Firs and Oneida also play. 2 p.m., East River Amphitheater, East River Park, the Lower East Side, www.eastrivermusicproject.com, free. (Sinagra)

DAVID GRAY (Tuesday) Mr. Gray's voice has a sharp, nervous quaver that keeps him sounding frayed and unpretty. He sings about tears and flames, seashores and rainy nights, strumming an acoustic guitar over his band's syncopated vamps; he owes a lot to Van Morrison. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212)353-1600, $35, $40 at the door (sold out). (Pareles)

JIM AND JENNIE AND THE PINETOPS (Wednesday) Unlike a lot of younger alt-country bands that nod to classic traditions, this Pennsylvania group actually plays accomplished bluegrass topped by high, lonesome close-harmonic vocals. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)539-8778, $15. (Sinagra)

LAMC INDIE SHOWDOWN (Wednesday) The Latin Alternative Music Conference (www.latinalternative.com), an annual showcase for the wildly eclectic world of Latin rock, presents eight bands from the United States and points south: Pacha, Popvert, Cuban Cowboys, Orixa, Soniko, Santos de Los Angeles and Delux. 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700, $5. (Pareles)

*LOS AMIGOS INVISIBLES (Thursday) Los Amigos Invisibles, from Venezuela, latch on to dance grooves from the last three decades: James Brown funk, the stolid thump of house music, mid-1960's boogaloo, 1970's Miami disco, Santana's mambo-rock, even some rapping, while the lyrics (in Spanish) are come-ons somewhere between charm and smarm. 6 to 9 p.m., El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem. As part of the Latin Alternative Music Conference (www.latinalternative.com), it's a free concert. (Pareles)

MC5 (Tonight) These working-class Detroit toughs played scab-picking, drug-dabbling proto-punk rock amid the hippie era. The original members Michael Davis, Dennis Thompson and the long-winded raconteur guitarist Wayne Kramer reunite to perform their album, ''Kick Out the Jams'' (Elektra), in its uncensored entirety. The band also plays tomorrow with the Sun Ra Arkestra at Central Park SummerStage (see Sun Ra below). 9 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)599-5103, $25. (Sinagra)

O'JAYS (Monday) The O'Jays were the flagship group of the Philadelphia soul producers Gamble and Huff, dealing with hard times in songs like ''Backstabbers'' and ''For the Love of Money'' and hoping for better ones with ''Love Train.'' 7:30 p.m., Wingate Field, Winthrop Street, between Brooklyn and Kingston Avenues, Brooklyn, (718)469-1912, free. (Pareles)

OLIVIA TREMOR CONTROL (Tuesday and Wednesday) One of the bands central to the Athens, Ga., collective Elephant 6, which flourished in the mid-90's indie underground, Olivia Tremor Control melded Beatlesesque melodies and Mersey beat bounce with loopy, slacker flophouse psychedelia. 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $15; $17 at the door. (Sinagra)

LIZ PHAIR (Monday and Tuesday) This singer-songwriter, beloved for her early, sexy lo-fi missives, has caught flack for attempts at universal pop reach. But to her credit, her dirty-30's quirkiness shone through the slick production on her last effort. A new album, ''Somebody's Miracle'' (Capitol), is supposedly more elemental. Monday at 7 p.m. and Tuesday at 9 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8777, $25. (Sinagra)

RONNIE SPECTOR AND THE UPTOWN HORNS (Wednesday) Ronnie Spector's gutsy, fervently out-of-tune voice made ''Be My Baby'' an indelible plea and a touchstone for New York (and New Jersey) rock ever since. 7 p.m., Hudson River Festival, Rockefeller Park, Battery Park City, www.hudsonriverfestival.com, free. (Pareles)

SATANICIDE (Tonight) Hailing from New Jersey, this longstanding band plays a highly ironic though no doubt culturally committed version of heavy metal that bows before the alter of Black Sabbath and AC/DC. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111, $15; $17 at the door. (Sinagra)

PATTI SMITH (Thursday) As resolutely pretentious as ever, the punk poet rocker Patti Smith still has the sinewy swagger to trump young imitators like Eleanor Friedberger of the Fiery Furnaces. Hip kids can come see the real thing howl classics like ''Gloria'' and declaim topical rants like ''Radio Baghdad.'' 7:30 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Field, midpark at 70th Street, (212)360-2777, free. (Sinagra)

RATT, QUIET RIOT, CINDERELLA, FIREHOUSE (Tomorrow) This bill includes four prominent 1980's hair metal bands. To the pop canon, Ratt contributed the vibrant and enduring ''Round and Round,'' while Quiet Riot has the distinction of writing the thuddingly irritating, yet also enduring ''Cum on Feel the Noize.'' 7 p.m., North Fork Theater at Westbury Music Fair, 960 Brush Hollow Road, Westbury, N.Y., (516)334-0800, $51.50. (Sinagra)

STRINGS, DEGA (Tonight) The guitar trio Strings plays a flamenco-inflected brand of Haitian troubadour music, a traditional cafe style featuring guitar, conga, maraca and box-like marimboula bass. Dega plays konpa, another Haitian style derived from meringue but goosed with voodoo rhythms. Midnight and 2 a.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212)243-4940, $22 to $25. (Sinagra)

SUN-RA ARKESTRA, MC5, DJ SPOOKY (Tomorrow) The alto saxophonist Marshall Allen carries on the tradition of the legendary jazz bandleader Sun Ra, directing the ensemble of players young and old in a program that seamlessly mixes swing, skronk and squeal. The Detroit legends MC5 (see above) and the cerebral DJ Spooky also perform. 3 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Field, midpark at 70th Street, (212)360-2777, free. (Sinagra)

JAMES BLOOD ULMER (Thursday) The guitarist James Blood Ulmer made his name in jazz groups led by Art Blakey and Ornette Coleman, but he has deep roots in swampy, raucous blues. Singing in grizzled tones, plunking out notes with a thumb or making his guitar blurt feedback, he's in touch with both Son House and Jimi Hendrix. Noon, BAM's R&B Festival, MetroTech Commons Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Myrtle Street, Downtown Brooklyn, free. (Pareles)

WHITE OUT WITH JIM O'ROURKE AND THURSTON MOORE (Tomorrow) Lin Culbertson and Tom Surgal, of the experimental group White Out, make experimental rock with analog synthesizers, autoharp, flute, drums, gongs, chains and the like. They are joined by two regular co-conspirators, the ubiquitous post-rock jack of all trades Jim O'Rourke and Thurston Moore, whose sonic youth has morphed into questing, noisy adulthood. 8 and 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501, $12. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

*BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133. Tomorrow night at 7; Sunday night at 6:15. Cover: $25, with a $15 minimum; a $54.50 dinner-and-show package is available. (Stephen Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AFRICAN BLUE NOTES (Tonight) Martin Atangana, an accomplished Cameroonian guitarist and vocalist, leads this contemporary Afro-jazz quintet. 10 and 11:30 p.m. and 1 a.m., Zinc Bar, 90 West Houston Street, at LaGuardia Place, West Village, (212)477-8337; cover, $5, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen)

AMRAM & CO (Monday) The composer and multi-instrumentalist David Amram has led a profoundly diverse career in music, which he celebrates with this guest-laden evening performance. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212)989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MICHAEL ATTIAS'S CLINAMEN SEXTET (Thursday) Taking its name from the ''atomic swerve'' concept envisioned by the Epicurean poet-philosopher Lucretius, the group Clinamen consists of improvisers attuned to the mystery of cause and effect: Mr. Attias on alto saxophone, Tony Malaby on tenor and soprano saxophones, Mark Taylor on French horn, Matt Moran on vibes, Brad Jones on bass and Tyshawn Sorey on drums. 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

*CARAMOOR JAZZ FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Aug. 6) The tenor and soprano saxophonist Joe Lovano programs jazz at the idyllic Caramoor estate, managing a fusion of contemporary vigor and historical sweep. The first of two all-day concerts pays homage to the bebop progenitors Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie, the idiosyncratic musician-composers Thelonious Monk and Charles Mingus, and the percussive architect Max Roach. Mr. Lovano will also perform, alongside his fellow saxophonists David Liebman and Michael Brecker. 3 p.m., Venetian Theater at Caramoor, Katonah, N.Y., (914)232-1252, www.caramoor.org, $45 and $55. (Chinen)

RAVI COLTRANE QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) ''In Flux'' (Savoy), Mr. Coltrane's fourth album, is a significant milestone; his tenor and soprano saxophone playing have never sounded more confident, and his compositions have a sleek modernistic hue. As on the CD, he fronts a stellar band: the pianist Luis Perdomo, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer E.J. Strickland. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

DEWLINE (Wednesday) This quartet honors the interdisciplinary artistry of the soprano saxophonist and composer Steve Lacy, who died last year; the players are Dave Ballou on trumpet, Kristin Norderval on vocals, Kevin Norton on vibraphone and John Lindberg on bass. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

DUANE EUBANKS QUINTET (Thursday) This hard-bop trumpeter leads a powerful group with J.D. Allen, saxophonist; Orrin Evans, pianist; Eric Revis, bassist; and Eric McPherson, drummer. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOE FARNSWORTH AND FRIENDS (Tonight and tomorrow) The light-handed yet propulsive drumming of Joe Farnsworth has made him a quiet force in the jazz mainstream; he's joined here by the percussionist Ray Mantilla, the pianist David Hazeltine and the bassist Nat Reeves. 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212)885-7119; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*FESTIVAL OF NEW TRUMPET MUSIC (Tuesday through Aug. 7) Curated by the progressive-minded trumpeters Dave Douglas, Roy Campbell and Jon Nelson, this six-day series, dubbed FONT, pays homage to the Art Ensemble of the Chicago instigator Lester Bowie, who died in 1999. Among the many highlights are the Bill Dixon Trio, on Tuesday; Graham Haynes's Electric Church, on Wednesday; and Mr. Douglas's Brass Ecstasy, on Thursday. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. (with 11:30 sets Aug. 5 and 6), Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232, www.fontmusic.org; cover, $25. (Chinen)

SONNY FORTUNE QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Since the 1960's, countless saxophonists have adopted the methodology of John Coltrane, but few have captured his restless spirit; Mr. Fortune, the saxophonist of choice for the Coltrane drummer Elvin Jones, is chief among them. 8 and 10 p.m. and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

FREESTYLE JAZZ FINALE (Sunday) Free-improvised music makes its last boisterous stand at CBGB's Lounge, a scruffy basement annex to the imperiled punk landmark. Roughly two dozen musicians will take part, playing in a host of combinations; among them are the guitarists Dom Minasi and Joe Morris, the saxophonists Louis Belogenis and Sabir Mateen, and the pianists Angelica Sanchez and Cooper Moore. 7 p.m., CBGB Lounge, 313 Bowery, at Bleecker Street, East Village, (212)677-0455; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JANEK GWIZDALA BIG BAND (Tonight) Groove is what motivates this electric bass virtuoso, who hails from England; his 18-piece orchestra weds jazz voicings to a sometimes sleek, sometimes sharp contemporary sound. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

CHARLIE HADEN'S LAND OF THE SUN (Through Sunday) Charlie Haden won a Grammy this year for ''Land of the Sun'' (Verve), a stately homage to the Mexican composer Jose Sabre Marroquin. In performance, the music ranges from luminous to lugubrious; its strongest assets are the contributions of the alto saxophonist Miguel Zenon, the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby and the pianist Gonzalo Rubalcaba, who also wrote most of the arrangements. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

FRED HERSCH TRIO (Through Sunday) Mr. Hersch, a pianist long associated with gleaming songbook interpretations, has lately focused on his own well-constructed compositions; his trio, with the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Nasheet Waits, applies a rigorous elasticity to originals and standards alike. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20 and a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

VIJAY IYER (Tomorrow) Ideas are never far from the surface of Mr. Iyer's music, which often grows out of a complex yet fluid rhythmic impulse; for this solo performance, he augments his acoustic piano with oblique electronic beats. 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RENE MARIE (Tuesday) A soulful jazz singer and vibrant performer with a growing book of sturdy original tunes. 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)539-8778; cover, $15, $20 at the door. (Chinen)

MASTERS OF GROOVE (Tonight and tomorrow) The Hammond B-3 organist Reuben Wilson and the guitarist Grant Green Jr. bring considerable pedigree to this gritty soul-jazz enterprise. 9 and 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212)864-6662; cover, $25. (Chinen)

BILL McHENRY QUARTET (Tuesday through Aug. 7) Both as a tenor saxophonist and as a composer, Mr. McHenry adheres to a patiently exploratory style; he often lets the focus shift to the harmonically advanced guitar playing of Ben Monder, the broadly dynamic bass playing of Reid Anderson and the sparse, intense drumming of Paul Motian. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20, plus a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GRETCHEN PARLATO (Tomorrow) The lilting cadence and mellow sonority of Ms. Parlato's voice have earned her a good many casual admirers; a recent deluge of critical acclaim has more to do with her musicianship, underscored here by the guitarist Guilherme Monteiro and the bassist Massimo Biolcati. 6 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; no cover. (Chinen)

MATANA ROBERTS QUARTET (Wednesday) A husky-toned alto saxophonist and junior member of the Chicago jazz collective A.A.C.M., Matana Roberts is at her best when responding to ensemble actions; she has a good sparring partner here in the cornetist Taylor Ho Bynum. 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue at Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934, no cover.(Chinen)

SHERISSE ROGERS BIG BAND (Tomorrow) Ms. Rogers, an electric bassist, won this year's Ascap Young Composers Award; she applies her acumen to this large ensemble, whose most recognizable soloist is the saxophonist Donny McCaslin. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

ARCHIE SHEPP/ROSWELL RUDD QUARTET (Thursday through Aug. 7) Mr. Shepp, a saxophonist, and Mr. Rudd, a trombonist, each contributed to the fiery legacy of the 60's and 70's avant-garde; their recent collaborations have been calmer but still venturesome, and seasoned with the blues. 8 and 10 p.m. with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays), Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212)582-2121; cover, $27.50, ($30 on Fridays and Saturdays) with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE GROUP (Tuesday) Best known as a compatriot of the indefatigable singer-songwriter Ani DiFranco, Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms. He showcases his own compositions in this improvising chamber ensemble, with Myra Melford on piano, Andrew Rathbun on tenor saxophone, Alan Ferber on trombone and Ches Smith on drums. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JAMES SILBERSTEIN QUARTET (Thursday) Mr. Silberstein, a fleet-fingered guitarist in the George Benson line of descent, favors the groovy side of post-bop; his band consists of the pianist Jill McCarron, the drummer Jeff Brillinger and the bassist Ron McClure. 9 p.m., West Bank Cafe, 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)695-6909; cover $10.(Chinen)

TERRY SILVERLIGHT BAND (Wednesday through Aug. 6) Mr. Silverlight is a drummer with extensive commercial credits and a fusion-oriented band that includes the trumpeter Lew Soloff and the electric bassist Will Lee. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CLARK TERRY BIG BAND (Tuesday through Aug. 7) Clark Terry's big-band experience is extensive: from the late 1940's on, he served successively in the orchestras of Count Basie, Duke Ellington and Quincy Jones. Here this octogenarian trumpet and flugelhorn player applies a lifetime of wit and experience to his own swinging ensemble. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $30 at tables, with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

LARRY WILLIS QUINTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Willis, a bassist with a long and distinguished career as a sideman, steps out front to lead an ensemble with one foot in hard-bop and the other in groove; his illustrious bandmates are the alto saxophonist Gary Bartz, the trombonist Steve Davis, the bassist Buster Williams and the drummer Al Foster. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $25 tonight and t0morrow, $20 on Sunday. (Chinen)

TOM WOPAT (Monday) The zeitgeist is smiling on Tom Wopat, the original ''Dukes of Hazzard'' star and less original standards crooner; this one-night stand is barely more than a block from the Broadway theater where he is the costar of a revival of ''Glengarry Glen Ross.'' 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

GLIMMERGLASS (Tonight through Thursday) To be counted among the country's leading summer opera festivals, it helps to have imagination and unusual repertory, and Glimmerglass offers both in spades. All four of the season's operas are now in rotation. One highlight is a new production of Benjamin Britten's wonderful and too-seldom-performed ''Death in Venice,'' directed by Tazewell Thompson and featuring William Burden. The season's other offerings are Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' the French version of Donizetti's ''Lucie de Lammermoor'' and an unusual double bill consisting of ''Portrait de Manon,'' Jules Massenet's one-act sequel to his most famous opera, paired with Poulenc's one-acter ''La Voix Humaine,'' which depicts a woman on the phone. ''Lucie,'' tonight at 8 and Monday afternoon at 2; ''Portrait'' and ''Voix,'' tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 and Tuesday afternoon at 2; ''Cosi,'' tomorrow night at 8; ''Death in Venice,'' Sunday afternoon at 2 and Thursday night at 8, Alice Busch Theater, Route 80, eight miles north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607)547-2255, $31.50 to $97. (Anne Midgette)

'REGINA' (Tonight, Sunday and Wednesday) Most people know Lillian Hellman's play ''The Little Foxes'' from William Wyler's classic 1941 film version starring Bette Davis as the ruthless matriarch of a crumbling Southern family. But in 1949 the American composer Marc Blitzstein, whose centennial is being celebrated this year, introduced his operatic version, titled ''Regina'' after the main character. With its populist score -- a deft melding of spiky contemporary harmony, jazzy bits and American vernacular music -- the opera has been gaining adherents over the years. Bard College's SummerScape series is presenting a production directed by Peter Schneider and conducted by Leon Botstein, with the fearless soprano Lauren Flanigan in the Davis role. Tonight at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845)758-7900, $35 to $65. (Anthony Tommasini)

Classical Music

ASTON MAGNA (Tomorrow) The early-music scene in the Northeast has long shuttled between New York and Boston, and what better middle ground is there in the summer than the Berkshire foothills? The featured artist tonight is the estimable pianist Robert Levin, who doubles as musicological sleuth. Here on fortepiano, he joins the violinist Daniel Stepner and others in Beethoven's arrangement of his Fourth Piano Concerto for string quintet rather than orchestra. 5 p.m., Daniels Arts Center, Simon's Rock College, Great Barrington, Mass., (413)528-3595 or (800)875-7156, $35; in advance, $30; students and 65+, $25. The program will also be presented tonight at 8 in Olin Hall, Bard College, Route 9G, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845)758-7425, $25; students and 62+, $20. (James R. Oestreich)

BANG ON A CAN SUMMER MUSIC INSTITUTE (Tomorrow, and Monday through Thursday) Since new music tends to find more sympathetic ears in the art world than in many concert halls, Bang on a Can takes its concerts into a museum -- specifically, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, where two informal concerts a day showcase the faculty and participants of its summer learning program. The group even transplants its signature event, the marathon, in a six-hour version ranging from Wolfe to Reich to Crumb to Xenakis to Andriessen to Tenney to you get the picture. Marathon, tomorrow afternoon at 4; other recitals, Monday through Thursday at 1:30 and 4:30 p.m., Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, Mass., (413)662-2111. Marathon, $22; other concerts are free with gallery admission: $10; students, $8; ages 6 to 16, $4. (Midgette)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Thursday) There are few cozier places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall (a former coffee barge) on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Tonight, Steven Beck, a pianist, plays Bach's Partita No. 4, Beethoven's Sonata No. 30 and Mussorgsky's ''Pictures at an Exhibition.'' Mr. Beck returns on Thursday as part of a piano trio, with Mark Peskanov, a violinist, and Eric Jacobsen, a cellist, in a program that includes a world premiere by Elizabeth Adams and favorites by Mendelssohn (the D minor Trio) and Haydn (the ''Gypsy'' Trio). Tomorrow and Sunday, another piano trio -- Reiko Uchida, pianist; David Chan, violinist; and Thomas Kraines, cellist -- play Mozart, Rachmaninoff and Schumann. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083, $35; $30 for 65+ on Thursday only; $25 for students. (Allan Kozinn)

BERKSHIRE CHORAL FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) For listeners who love choral music, this festival is an ideal refuge, combining the charms of the Berkshires and highlights of the choral repertory, performed by a choir of 275 enthusiastic singers, supported by the Springfield Symphony, and conducted by renowned choral directors. This week, the early music specialist Gary Thor Wedow leads Bach's majestic Mass in B minor. 8 p.m., the Berkshire School, Route 41, Sheffield, Mass., (413)229-1999, $25 to $40. (Kozinn)

BRIDGEHAMPTON CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tomorrow, Sunday and Wednesday) The flutist Marya Martin did not want to spend summers schlepping to far-flung festivals, so she and her husband, Ken Davidson, founded a festival of their own, now in its 22nd season. Tomorrow night at 6:30, at the Atlantic Golf Club, there will be a benefit concert to support the festival, featuring Italian music. Sunday, it's Mozart and Telemann, and Wednesday, an all-French program featuring Debussy, Faure and Durufle. Sunday at 6:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Bridgehampton Presbyterian Church, Bridgehampton, N.Y., (631)537-6368, $35; $30 for 65+. Benefit tickets and information: (631)537-3507. (Jeremy Eichler)

CARAMOOR (Tonight through Thursday) The jazz saxophonist Paquito D'Rivera goes classical tonight as he and his colleagues perform Brahms's Clarinet Trio and some of Mr. D'Rivera's own music. Tomorrow is devoted to a ''Modern Jazz at 60'' festival, enticingly programmed by Joe Lovano. Sunday, it's back to more classical music, with Donald Runnicles leading the Orchestra of St. Luke's in works by Mozart and Haydn, with the probing and incisive pianist Peter Serkin joining as soloist. On Wednesday and Thursday, Judy Kaye sings Harold Arlen. Tonight at 8, tomorrow from 3 p.m., Sunday at 4:30 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 8:30 p.m., Katonah, N.Y., (914)232-1252, $17.50 to $65. (Eichler)

INTERNATIONAL KEYBOARD INSTITUTE AND FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) This annual two-week festival, now in its seventh summer season, enters its final weekend of recitals, master classes and ceremonies. Highlights include a recital by the virtuoso pianist Marc-Andre Hamelin tomorrow night. He plays Schubert's Sonata in A (D. 664), Godowski's ''Nine Studies After Chopin's Etudes'' (which are even harder versions of Chopin's daunting works) and Liszt's dazzling operatic paraphrases of music from ''Norma,'' ''Ernani'' and ''Tristan und Isolde.'' In two concerts on Sunday you can hear in recital the finalists of the festival's competition, the Dorothy MacKenzie Awards. Tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., Mannes College of Music, 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212)580-0210, Ext. 4858, $20. (Tommasini)

MAVERICK CONCERTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This series near Woodstock, N.Y., now in its 90th season, offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. Zuill Bailey, a young cellist who has been best known as a chamber player, is joined by Simone Dinnerstein, a pianist, in the complete Beethoven cello sonatas. Mr. Bailey will also play a free Young People's Concert tomorrow morning at 11. The Beethoven is on Sunday at 3 p.m., the Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845)679-8217, $20; $5 for students. (Kozinn)

MOSTLY MOZART (Monday through Thursday) Mozart has gotten a new shine in New York: at least, this perennially popular Lincoln Center-based festival bearing his name has a new spring in its step, and on its program, since Louis Langree became its music director two years ago. Certainly the festival orchestra is sounding better, as it should demonstrate in concerts during the first week of a season organized around the theme of ''Mozart's Travels,'' extending its embrace all the way to Russia, where Mozart never actually went. Mozart in Vienna is the focus on Tuesday and Wednesday, with a piece by Haydn and three by Mozart, including the Piano Concerto No. 22 with Emanuel Ax, and a concert aria with the soprano Emma Bell. Mr. Ax also offers two hourlong late-night concerts, one with Ms. Bell, in a series called ''A Little Night Music.'' Thursday is the festival debut of the Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen, while on Monday the unquenchable Rob Kapilow analyzes ''Eine Kleine Nachtmusik'' in his popular series ''What Makes It Great?'' Monday night at 8, Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center; Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 8, Avery Fisher Hall (orchestra); Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 10:30, Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street, 10th floor (recitals); Thursday night at 8, Alice Tully Hall (Kammerphilharmonie), (212)721-6500, $25 to $58 for the orchestral concerts; $30 for the late-night recitals. (Midgette)

MUSIC MOUNTAIN (Tonight through Sunday) Offering a smattering of choral music and jazz but focusing on string quartets, this venerable festival presents the Bergonzi String Quartet this weekend playing an eclectic program that ranges from Debussy's Quartet and Franck's Piano Quintet (with Melvin Chen) to Joplin and Hefty's ''Li'l Darlin'.'' Also on the weekend's program are the Silk City Barbershop Chorus from Manchester, Conn., 50 voices strong (tonight), and jazz with the vocalist Cynthia M. (tomorrow). Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday afternoon at 3, Gordon Hall at Music Mountain, Falls Village, Conn., (860)824-7126, $25; students under 24, $12. (Midgette)

NORFOLK CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow) Each summer the Yale Summer School of Music retreats north to this lovely spot, and the public reaps much of the benefit at concerts in the rustic Music Shed. This weekend the Tokyo String Quartet anchors the programs. Tonight it plays works by Beethoven, Schubert and Hikaru Hayashi, and tomorrow some of its members join other performers in works by Brahms. 8 p.m., Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate, Routes 44 and 272, Norfolk, Conn., (860)542-3000, $15 to $45; ages 18 to 25, $10; under 18, free with a paying adult. (Oestreich)

TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Thursday) After several intense weeks with its new music director, James Levine, the Boston Symphony Orchestra settles down to more routine business this weekend, with Charles Dutoit conducting tonight and Sunday, and Hans Graf tomorrow. Music shed, tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 and Sunday at 2:30 p.m., $17 (lawn) to $85. On Tuesday, the baritone Matthias Goerne will perform songs by Beethoven, Wagner, Mahler and Berg; on Wednesday, the Australian Chamber Orchestra will join the pianist Angela Hewitt; and on Thursday, the gifted young performers of the Tanglewood Music Center will vie for attention, beginning their Festival of Contemporary Music, which runs though Aug. 8. Seiji Ozawa Hall, 8:30 p.m., $16 (lawn) to $46. Lenox, Mass., (413)637-5165 or (888)266-1200. (Oestreich)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

BIG DANCE THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow) A showcase of works by up-and-coming choreographers features creations about city life, suburbia and the wilds of Alaska. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Dumbo Stable, 16 Main Street, at Water Street, Brooklyn; free, no reservations necessary. (Jack Anderson)

*BOLSHOI BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow) The Bolshoi Ballet closes its two-week season at the Metropolitan Opera House -- another two weeks in Pennsylvania, Virginia and California will complete its American tour -- with three performances of ''The Pharaoh's Daughter.'' This is a 2000 reconstruction by Pierre Lacotte of an early Petipa Egyptian fantasy. Although Sergei Filin has had to drop out of his scheduled performances as Lord Wilson, the leading role of Aspicia should be in good hands: Maria Alexandrova tonight, Svetlana Lunkina tomorrow afternoon and Svetlana Zakharova tomorrow night. Tonight at 8 and tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000 or www.metopera.org; $45 to $150. (John Rockwell)

DODGE DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) Susan Dodge choreographically combines explosive energy with humor and musicality. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212)334-7479; $15; students, $12. (Anderson)

INTERNATIONAL DANCE FESTIVAL: LABYRINTH DANCE THEATER (Wednesday) Sasha Spielvogel's group presents two works for three dancers, ''Slither'' and ''Backstreet.'' 8 p.m., Dicapo Opera Theater, at St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212)233-2323; $25. (Anderson)

JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Tonight through Aug. 28) Tonight through Sunday the Mark Morris Dance Group and Aszure, a modern-dance troupe led by Aszure Barton, wind up their runs at the Pillow. Wednesday through Aug. 7, a venturesomely inclined ballet troupe from Stockholm called 59degrees North will be in the larger Ted Shawn Theater. Thursday through Aug. 7, Susan Marshall and Company, a modern-dance group always worth seeing, will be in the smaller Doris Duke Studio Theater. Morris at the Shawn Theater tonight and tomorrow night at 8 and Sunday at 2 p.m.; $55; students, ages 65+ and children, $49.50. Aszure at the Duke Theater tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15 and Sunday at 5 p.m.; $20; students, ages 65+ and children, $18. 59degrees North at the Shawn Theater Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; $50; students, ages 65+ and children, $45.50. Marshall at the Duke Theater Thursday at 8:15 p.m.; $20; students, ages 65+ and children, $18. Details of the week's free performances and exhibitions can be found on www.jacobspillow.org. Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413)243-0745. (Rockwell)

NOCHE FLAMENCA (Tonight through Sunday) A fiery company led by the passionate Soledad Barrio returns for an extended engagement. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and 10, Sunday at 5 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, East Village, (212)352-3101; $45. (Anderson)

OREET (Tomorrow) Oreet is a fitness instructor. She's also a belly dancer. ''Hafla'' means party in Arabic. And Oreet's ''Ultimate Belly Dance Hafla'' celebrates that art as an example of both muscular control and spiritual expression. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-1155; $15 with a one-drink minimum. (Anderson)

PILOBOLUS (Tonight and tomorrow) Dancers bend like pretzels and tie themselves into knots in acrobatic choreography that stretches the performers' bodies and viewers' minds. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $42; Joyce members, $32. (Anderson)

SOUTH PLEASANT COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow) Cristina Septien's ''To One I Saw Small'' tells the story of a disenchanted spelling-bee champion, with the aid of movement, dialogue and video. 9 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, West Village, (212)352-7112; $15; students, $12. (Anderson)

YOUNG DANCEMAKERS COMPANY (Today, Monday, Thursday) A company of 16 teenagers from New York high schools offers works created this summer. Today at 3 p.m., Harry De Jur Playhouse, Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side; Monday at noon, New South Bronx Police Athletic League, 991 Longwood Street, South Bronx; Thursday at 7:30 p.m., with guest dancers, Stuyvesant High School Auditorium, 345 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan. Performances are free but reservations are required: (718)329-7250 or (917)312-1115. (Anderson)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

*AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'ANCESTRY AND INNOVATION,' through Sept. 4. This selection of quilts, paintings, sculptures and drawings by several generations of self-taught artists jumps with color and talent and reflects a sharp curatorial eye. 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SELF AND SUBJECT,' through Sept. 11. From Grandma Moses' depiction of herself beguiled by infant descendants to A.G. Rizzoli's rendition of his mother as a Gothic cathedral, this refreshingly offbeat show of 20th-century self-taught artists covers a vivid range of portraits. 45 West 53rd Street (212)265-1040. (See above.) (Grace Glueck)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'MONET'S LONDON: ARTISTS' REFLECTIONS ON THE THAMES, 1859-1914,' through Sept. 4. This polished and studiously dry show has a dozen of Monet's wildly, paradisaically pretty paintings at its center, surrounded by images of London, many of them prints and photographs by other artists, including James McNeill Whistler and figures now known primarily to art historians. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718)638-5000. (Holland Cotter)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'EXTREME TEXTILES,' through Oct. 30. Don't look for aesthetic pizazz in this intensely techy show of industrial fibers and fabrics, but don't rule it out. The show's raison d'etre is solely use, but a lot of what's on view, in the first museum display of material made to function in extreme conditions, is visually exciting. 2 East 91st Street, (212)849-8400.(Glueck)

THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'FROM CALLOT TO GREUZE: FRENCH DRAWINGS FROM WEIMAR,' through Aug. 7. This show sprints through French art of the 17th and 18th centuries and reveals it to be a phenomenon of varying moods and accomplishments. The 70 drawings, including some by Claude Lorrain, Watteau and Boucher, are from the municipal holdings of the German city of Weimar. And many were acquired by that collection's first curator, the great writer, philosopher and lover of all things French, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe; 1 East 70th Street, (212)288-0700. (Cotter)

*GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ROBERT MAPPLETHORPE AND THE CLASSICAL TRADITION: PHOTOGRAPHS AND MANNERIST PRINTS,' through Aug. 24. This exhibition juxtaposes obsessively styled, drunkenly body-oriented art from the late 18th and late 20th centuries, achieving a fairly even rate of exchange in an unusually elegant installation. But the prints, having more to begin with, come out ahead and look remarkably fresh. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)423-3500. (Smith)

GUGGENHEIM: 'OTEIZA: MYTH AND MODERNISM,' through Aug. 24. With the goal of paring down sculpture to an emptied (not ''empty'') space that he saw as filled with spiritual energy, the Basque sculptor Jorge Oteiza (1908-2003) worked intensively during the 1950's, creating the right containers. Experimenting with a number of different mathematical models, he undertook processes like ''opening polyhedrons'' and ''emptying'' spheres and cubes, to arrive at a series called ''Metaphysical Boxes,'' made from the opposition of two trihedrons. The dark, nearly inaccessible spaces he created here seem to take on a religious character. When, at the end of the 1950's, he felt he had met his goal, Oteiza turned to Basque political and social causes. But his work, mostly small in scale, smacks too much of theory to be of exciting visual interest. (See above.) (Glueck)

*INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'YOUNG AMERICA,' through Sept. 4. The daguerreotype, an early version of photography, though invented in Europe, was a huge hit in the United States, and you can see why in these extraordinary pictures of a country's political and intellectual elite and its well-heeled citizens. Taken by two members of a well-known Boston studio, each picture glows on the wall like a stone in a mood ring, or a computer screen floating in space. At 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212)857-0000. (Cotter)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ALL THE MIGHTY WORLD,' through Aug. 21. In one of the medium's shortest great careers, Roger Fenton helped establish photography as both an art and a profession in masterly landscapes, portraits and still lifes that, for all their prescience, also express a profound ambivalence about the very notion of progress. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710. (Smith)

*MET: MATISSE: THE FABRIC OF DREAMS -- HIS ART AND HIS TEXTILES, through Sept. 25. This somewhat scattered yet astounding exhibition demonstrates that as African sculptures were to the Cubists, so textiles were to Matisse, and revolutionizes the understanding of both his life and his work. (See above.) (Smith)

MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'DUAL VISION: THE SIMONA AND JEROME CHAZEN COLLECTION,' through Sept. 11. A selection of fair-to-good paintings by artists like Hans Hofmann, Richard Pousette-Dart, John McLaughlin and Roy Lichtenstein and a collection of mostly mediocre ceramics and art glass create a disjunctive hybrid of an exhibition. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535. (Ken Johnson)

*MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: LEE FRIEDLANDER, through Aug. 29. A gigantic retrospective of this great photographer of the American vernacular scene, whose sly and haunting works (grungy cityscapes, wild landscapes, portraits and nudes) can put you in mind of Auden's remark that ''every 'original' genius'' has something ''a bit shady about him.'' In Mr. Friedlander's case, it's a compliment. 11 West 53rd Street, (212)708-9400. (Michael Kimmelman)

*MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIONEERING MODERN PAINTING: CEZANNE AND PISSARRO,' through Sept. 12. The marriage of minds, sensibilities and influences that Cezanne and Pissarro shared is the subject of this rigorous, beautiful show. Unlike its predecessor, ''Matisse Picasso,'' it is less a grand opera than a lieder recital of deep-running, summer-green Schubertian pleasures. (See above.) (Cotter)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'GEORGE CATLIN AND HIS INDIAN GALLERY,' through Sept. 5. The portraits and landscapes here give an account of Plains Indian life in the 1830's in wonderful and sometimes harrowing detail. Viewing it is a remarkable experience. 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212)514-3700. (Glueck)

P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'GREATER NEW YORK 2005,' through Sept. 26. A youth-besotted, cheerful, immodestly ingratiating, finally disappointing survey of contemporary art, perusing a scene whose wide stylistic range, emphasis on drawing, persistent teenage infatuations and overall dexterousness are firmly entrenched characteristics of the marketplace. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718)784-2084. (Kimmelman)

UKRAINIAN MUSEUM: 'ALEXANDER ARCHIPENKO,' through Sept.18. This rare retrospective of work by the Ukrainian-born sculptor opens the handsome, much-expanded new quarters of this museum. The most exciting part is a beautifully illuminated room of Archipenko's most radical pieces, which inspired later artists like Henry Moore. 222 East Sixth Street, East Village, (212)228-0110. (Glueck)

WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'REMOTE VIEWING,' through Oct. 9. The vast information overload the world struggles with -- scientific theory, technological data, geopolitical facts, historical material and on and on -- is whipped into visual cosmologies by eight painters of widely different approach and sensibility. If the premise is fuzzy, the show has some sharp art, including Carroll Dunham's witty ''Solar Eruption,'' a giant battered yellow sun that suggests a cell invaded by virus particles, its perimeter bursting with splatlike -- and sometimes unseemly -- extrusions. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212)570-3600. (Glueck)

*WHITNEY MUSEUM: ROBERT SMITHSON, through Oct. 23. Who knows whether Robert Smithson is the most influential American postwar artist, as this show claims. Consisting mostly of drawings, photographs and films (Smithson didn't make that many sculptures, not ones that could fit into a museum, anyway), this is the first full-scale overview of him in the country. It is consequently dry but still compelling testimony to a great exuberance cut drastically short when Smithson died at 35 in a plane crash in 1973. Self-appointed spokesman for earth art, and scavenger of dirt, shells, slag and other materials from the industrial landscape, he helped to shove Minimalism, Conceptualism and Pop in various messy new directions during the 1960's and early 70's. Today, in an era of crabbed imagination and short-term profiteering, the sheer chutzpah of an artist like him is instructive. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

WHITNEY MUSEUM: BANKS VIOLETTE, through Oct. 2. In this labor-intensive installation, Romanticism, tragic violence and rock 'n' roll are evoked as much by the detailed wall label as by the ghostly beams of a burned-out church made of gleaming salt. (See above.) (Smith)

Galleries: Uptown

*'WAR/HELL: MASTER PRINTS BY OTTO DIX AND MAX BECKMANN' ''War,'' the German artist Otto Dix's great graphic condemnation of battle, a portfolio of 50 etchings rife with grisly images of trench life and death, battlefield corpses, civilian bombings and other horrors, published after World War I, is paired here with Max Beckmann's ''Hell,'' 10 lithographs from 1918 that comment on war's brutality but also give a sardonic view of the inhumanities he saw as the hell of everyday existence. Their presentation together heightens the impact of each. Neue Gallerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212)628-6200, through Sept. 26. (Glueck)

Galleries: 57th Street

*'REPEAT PERFORMANCE' More than 20 artists use repetition as their main formal device and many different kinds of materials. The show includes concentric circles drawn by Eva Hesse; black pinstripes painted by Frank Stella; solid glass orbs with opalescent surfaces attached to the wall by Tom Bell; colored wax copies of plastic tumblers by George Stoll; and botanically accurate leaves made entirely of staples by Alison Foshee. Anthony Grant, 37 West 57th Street, (212)755-0434, through Sept. 17. (Johnson)

CHRISTIAN SILVA: 'THE ENGLISH GARDEN' The best works by this Guadalajara-based artist are puzzling but have a visceral material presence. The trembling green rubber hands sticking out from a wall holding bunches of real parsley and coriander are especially weird. The life-size green man on the floor under a pile of vegetables is strange, too. But the big charcoal wall drawing of a drum kit is forgettable. Projectile, 37 West 57th Street, (212)688-4673, through Aug. 5. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

*'BEBE LE STRANGE' This tense, lively group show devoted to images of the figure includes strong work by a bunch of strong young artists, including Benjamin Degen, William Jones and Eileen Quinlan, and fascinating photographic work of documentary fiction by Zoe Crosher and Leslie Grant. D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212)352-9460, through Aug. 12. (Cotter)

*'BRIDGE FREEZES BEFORE ROAD' The big, hot group show of the summer pays homage to Robert Smithson, and casually retools countercultural languages of yesteryear for the 21st century. Barbara Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212)206-9300, through Aug. 19. (Cotter)

*'GREY FLAGS' Organized by the artist Seth Price, this coolest of summer group shows puts New York art on an interesting track and looks to the future. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212)680-9467, through Aug. 12. (Cotter)

'IDOLS OF PERVERSITY' Inspired by a 1980's book with the subtitle ''Fantasies of Feminine Evil in Fin de Siecle Culture,'' this show substitutes Surrealism for Symbolism for its prevailing mode, academic painting as its preferred style, and the contemporary art star John Currin as its patron saint. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, (212) 929-5959, through Aug. 6. (Cotter)

DAVID LEVINTHAL: 'XXX SEX DOLLS' Mr. Levinthal is known for his provocatively ironic photographs of war toys, racist kitsch and pornographic dolls. Here, along with faux-pornographic photographs, he presents 30 female miniatures from his collection; they are kitschy marvels of sexist fetishism. Ricco Maresca, 529 West 20th Street, (212)627-4819, through Aug. 19. (Johnson)

'LIVING FOR THE CITY' Organized by an institution-in-formation, the Brooklyn Institute of Contemporary Art, this group show has artists from Africa, Asia and Latin America, some making New York debuts. Jack Shainman Gallery, 513 West 20th Street, (212)645-1701, through Aug. 5. (Cotter)

'STICKS & STONES' Images of skulls dominate this group show of mostly drawings by John White Cerasulo, Santiago Cucullu and Andrew Guenther, with an ambitious, multipart marker-on-photocopy piece by Jay Heikes. Perry Rubenstein Gallery, 527 West 23rd Street, (212)627-8000, through Aug. 12. (Cotter)

*'WALLS 'N' THINGS' This show about illusion and ambiguity includes a big, tough graffiti piece lifted from Barbie packaging; wall braces that support nothing; and a wall painting that isn't there until you suddenly see it, after which it is really, really there. Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 213, (212)243-3335, through Aug. 5.(Cotter)

Other Galleries

'ANIMAL TALES' This entertaining show presents paintings of all kinds of animals in all kinds of styles: fantasy creatures painted naturalistically, real animals painted surrealistically, cartoon hybrids and old-fashioned allegorical beasts. Participating artists include Catherine Howe, David Humphrey, Elizabeth Huey, James Esber, Anton van Dalen and many more. DFN, 176 Franklin Street, TriBeCa, (212)334-3400, through Sept. 2.(Johnson)

JOHN BEECH Mr. Beech's elegant, subtly humorous sculptures conjoin Minimalism and utilitarianism; a tall, aqua-blue box, for example, looks like a container for parts in a factory that Donald Judd might have built. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212)343-0441, through Sept. 10. (Johnson)

'DEAD KIDS DO NOTHING' It's hard to say what this better-than-average group show adds up to, but it includes a sweetly quixotic video by Lee Walton in which he makes minor alterations to outdoor situations he encounters; another video, of a swimming mouse shot from under water by Adam Stennett, the show's organizer; lonesome modern interiors drawn in blue ink by Rebecca Chamberlain; and a dreamy, elegiac photograph of a dead pigeon shot with a pinhole camera by Jan Dunning. 31 Grand, 31 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)388-2858, through Aug. 7. (Johnson)

JULIAN OPIE: 'ANIMALS, BUILDINGS, CARS AND PEOPLE' Outdoor sculptures in a coolly understated neo-Pop style, including cars, animals and a group of white skyscrapers with grids of black windows. City Hall Park, Lower Manhattan, (212)980-4575, through Oct. 15. (Johnson)

SYLVIA SLEIGH Ms. Sleigh is best known for the male odalisques she painted in the 1970's. The ones in this seven-decade retrospective are comical and embarrassing but still wonderful documents of first-wave feminism, and so is the large 1977 group portrait of members of the all-female cooperative gallery A.I.R. Newhouse Center for Contemporary Art, Snug Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island, (718)448-2500, through Oct. 2. (Johnson)

Last Chance

*'ATOMICA: MAKING THE INVISIBLE VISIBLE' This carefully orchestrated international group show marks the 60th anniversary of the dropping of atomic bombs on Japan, on Aug. 6 and Aug. 9, 1945. Shiva Ahmadi, Ellen Levy, Nancy Spero and Hiroshi Sunairi contribute subtle work. Esso Gallery (212)560-9728, 531 West 26th Street, second floor, and Lombard-Freid Fine Arts, (212)967-8040, 531 West 26th Street, fourth floor, Chelsea, closing today. (Cotter)

'ELEVEN NGUYENS AND THE THIRTY YEAR LOSS' The independent curator Trong G. Nguyen has conceived a novel and bittersweet way to celebrate the recent anniversary of the surrender of South Vietnam to the Communist North on April 30, 1975. He has gathered together works by 11 contemporary artists who all share the name Nguyen, pronounced ''win.'' He contributes a cake with thick frosting of yellow paint and lettering that reads ''Happy Birthday War.'' PH Gallery, 547 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212)564-4480, closing today. (Johnson)

'FEAR GEAR' The best piece in this mildly political show is Maria Marshall's video ''The Emperor and His Clothes,'' in which a boy puts on and takes off absurd amounts of clothing while the soundtrack plays layered excerpts from a speech by President Bush. Also: a video of Patty Chang dancing while being splattered by paint; a knotted and suggestively dangling rubber baseball bat by Via Lewandowsky; and a mural of military clothing fragments by Jean Shin. Roebling Hall, 606 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)929-8180, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

*THE GENERAL'S JAMBOREE: SECOND ANNUAL WATERCOLOR EXHIBITION Watercolor is a chronically underestimated art medium -- painting's poorer, implicitly feminine cousin. This may be one reason so many young artists have embraced it, armed with all kinds of intentions and techniques, including a few pointed at three dimensions, and also why this exhibition is, indeed, an exuberant jamboree. With the vogue for multimedia, it is also clarifying to see more than three score artists concentrating on just one. Guild & Greyshkul, 28 Wooster Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212)625-9224, closing tomorrow. (Smith)

*'I THROW HERRING TO THE DOG' Lillian Ludlow and Marcella Mullins, the curators of this odd and charming group show, are both clothes designers and artists, which may help explain the aesthetic of precision and improvisation that reigns here in work by Rita Ackerman, Kenneth Boyer Kloster, Sadie Laska and Patrick O'Leary, among others. Canada, 55-59 Chrystie Street, between Canal and Hester Streets, Lower East Side, (212)925-4631, closing on Sunday.(Cotter)

'IT'LL COST YOU ' In observance of the curious fact that Colonial American painters charged according to the number of human limbs visible in a picture, the collector Beth Rudin DeWoody has assembled a wildly pluralistic, often funny and kinky show of works that feature arms or legs by more than 40 artists. It ranges from a frieze of women's legs in high heels crisply painted by John Wesley to the hacked-off arm of an ape sculpted by Tony Matelli. Don't miss the tiny, finely made and well-shod wooden legs by Holly Laws in the backroom. Kathleen Cullen, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-8500, closing tomorrow. (Johnson).

'THE JEWELEIGHA SET' The works in this sharply focused yet ecumenical show of six artists inspired by fractal geometry fits together like a kind of rebus about the joy of numbers and numerousness in art, mathematics and nature. Greene Naftali Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7770, closing today. (Smith)

'PHILOSOPHICAL TOYS' This exceptionally interesting show introduces three ingenious people who have studied learning and cognition through toylike objects and gamelike processes: Friedrich Frobel, the inventor of kindergarten; Shea Zellweger, who created toys for teaching his own system of logic; and Jeannine Mosely, a software engineer who explores paper folding. Apexart, 291 Church Street, TriBeCa, (212)431-5270, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

VITALY KOMAR: 'THREE-DAY WEEKEND' The work in Mr. Komar's first solo show is more personal and less zanily satirical than the art he produced with his longtime collaborator Alex Melamid, but it does involve ingenious play with political and cultural signifiers. Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212)226-3232, closing today. (Johnson)

MAKE IT NOW: NEW SCULPTURE IN NEW YORK This survey of work by nearly 30 young and youngish artists is overly cautious but nonetheless gives an interesting account of the diffuse field of sculpture (which includes photography, video, ceramics and painting, in this case); tracks the current cross-fertilization between assemblage and appropriation art; and offers enough glimmers of new talent to be worth a visit. Sculpture Center, 41-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718)361-1750, closing on Sunday. (Smith)

AERNOUT MIK: 'REFRACTION' In a plotless, silent 30-minute film, the camera slowly surveys the elaborately constructed aftermath of a bus accident on a rural highway. Though the show is well produced and absorbing to watch, you may find yourself wondering more about what it cost than about what it means. New Museum, 556 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)219-1222, through Sept. 10.(Johnson)

'MIRAGE' The desert and hallucination are the intertwined images here, in fine work by Jennifer Bolande, Robert Bordo, Moyra Davey, Robert Kinmont, Mary Lum, Stephan Pascher and Florian Pumhosl. Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212)367-7474, closing today. (Cotter)

*EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'MEXICO, THE REVOLUTION AND BEYOND, PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASASOLA 1900-1940' This extraordinary show of work from a photo agency established by Agustin Victor Casasola in Mexico City has the span of a Greek epic and the nested themes and subplots of a picaresque novel, with revolutionary heroes and a vivid cast of everyday people. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212)831-7272, closing on Sunday. (Cotter)

MUSEUM AT THE FASHION INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY: 'FABULOUS! FASHIONS OF THE 1940'S' through July 30. Constructed around a selection of dresses from the institute's collection, this thought-provoking exhibition briefly tells what happened when the Germans invaded Paris, forcing that city to surrender its role as leader of world fashion to New York City -- at least until the end of the war. Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, (212)217-7999, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

'PAINT IT WITH BLACK' Black is the bottom line in this handsome show, organized by the artist Phong Bui, which includes enigmatic little night thoughts from Forrest Bess, Philip Guston, Bill Jensen and Thomas Nozkowski; a big one from Christopher Martin; and a rare sighting of work by the writer-curator-art historian Robert Storr. Betty Cuningham, 541 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-2772, closing today. (Cotter)

RICHARD STIPL: 'BLOC SABBATH' A dark-minded humanist and skillful sculptor, Mr. Stipl creates small, creepy, extremely realistic painted heads of grimacing men with secret-society emblems or images of famous women tattooed on their shaved skulls. An ensemble of 10 one-fourth-life-size nude men on a shelf represents a Boschian satanic ritual. Claire Oliver, 513 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)929-5949, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

*'SOMETHING IS SOMEWHERE' With art by 20 young artists, all women, this show makes an implicit feminist statement and offers art of formal variety and narrative intensity. Monya Rowe, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 504, Chelsea, (646)234-8645, closing tomorrow. (Cotter)

*'THIS SIDE TOWARD SCREEN' With the arrival of digital imaging, slide projection became archaic technology, but as an artist's medium, it has a long and continuing history, which is touched on in new work here. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212)463-7372, closing today. (Cotter)

*'WE COULD HAVE INVITED EVERYONE' Depending on your interest, this excellent, sprawling show about the micronations and fictive states founded by artists, eccentrics, political malcontents and other subversives will either feel like the tip of the iceberg or overload. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 516A West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, closing today. (Smith)


GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- ''Lens Being Bombed,'' an etching by Otto Dix, is part of a collection of World War I prints on view at the Neue Galerie, Page 23. (Photo by Neue Galerie)
MOVIES -- Taryn Manning appears in Craig Brewer's ''Hustle & Flow,'' Page 21. (Photo by Alan Spearman/Crunk Pictures)
POP -- Destiny's Child (Kelly Rowland, left
Beyonce
 and Michelle Williams), which plans to disband at the end of the summer, performs at Madison Square Garden and the Nassau Coliseum this weekend, Page 21. (Photo by Sean Michaels/Retna Ltd.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (85%); FILM (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); COMEDY FILMS (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); MARRIAGE (70%); WORLD WAR I (60%); THEATER (59%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



560 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Trademarks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Along With That Caffeine Rush, a Taste of Seattle'' (Addis Ababa Journal, July 22) raises the important issue of trademarks and intellectual property.
In the United States, companies like Starbucks protect the hard work and innovation that go into creating the brands prized by their customers. But developing nations around the world often see our equally hard work invested over generations in cultivating our unique products, names and other elements of cultural identity being used to add value to American brands with no concern for fair compensation. 
 Countries like Ethiopia greatly value our trading partnerships with American companies and see trade as a powerful tool for economic development under the right circumstances. But as the globalized economy creates new trading opportunities, we ask our international business partners to recognize the distinctiveness of our cultural treasures, including the unique coffees of Ethiopia, and to share the value they create in a way that fairly rewards our role in protecting them.

Kassahun Ayele
Ambassador of Ethiopia
Washington, July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARKS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) Coffee; Trademarks and Trade Names; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Kassahun (Amb) Ayele

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (92%) Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



561 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: A Wartime Call: Share the Burden 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David M. Kennedy argues that there is a need for a ''universal duty to service.'' But how would increasing the availability of bodies by involuntary servitude promote democracy and improve the outcome in Iraq?
 It would certainly provide more lives for additional foreign adventures. Shouldn't Mr. Kennedy be urging a flaccid Congress to demand accountability and a timetable for troop withdrawal from the president and his appointees, who duped the public to gain compliance for a pre-planned, unjustified war? 
 Some few may indeed not be sharing the sacrifice. I think of Halliburton and the top 1 percent who benefited most from the Bush tax cuts. But the rest of us are watching the withering of the American dream: schools starved for financing, dwindling commitments for Social Security and health care, a decaying infrastructure, and so on. 
 Better to rethink our oil economy than to spill more American blood in the Middle East.

Ruth Miller
Harvard, Mass., July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX LAW (70%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military)

PERSON: David M Kennedy; Ruth Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



562 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
FRANCISCUS, SR. MARY, RSM

 BODY:
 FRANCISCUS--Sr. Mary, RSM Came to the fullness of her life July 27, 2005. As educator and administrator within the Brooklyn Diocese Schools, Sr. 
Mary helped students attain the highest level of achievement. In 1983 Sr. Mary founded Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow to assist economically disadvantaged youth. Sr. Mary transformed lives of hopelessness to those of hope and success. Sr. Mary was a true-blue ardent Yankee fan. She was a devoted sister to Howard, Margaret and the late John. She is also survived by her sister-in-law Marion, three nieces, two nephews and their families. Mass of Resurrection at St. Rocco's in Brooklyn, 10AM Saturday July 30. Wake at Aievoli Funeral Home, 13th Avenue at 65th Street, Brooklyn, Thursday July 28, 7-9pm and Friday July 29, 2-4:30pm and 7-9pm.
FRANCISCUS--Sr. Mary. The Robin Hood Foundation mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Sister Mary Franciscus. Sister Mary helped lift thousands of people out of poverty. With foresight and tenacity she founded one of New York's best job training programs. Sister Mary left an indelible mark on our city and everyone who had the privilege to know her. Our condolences to her family, friends and everyone at Opportunities for a Better Tommorow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); RELIGION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



563 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Minority-Owned Businesses Are on the Rise

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
The number of businesses owned by minorities and women grew in recent years at rates that were two or more times the national average, according to the United States Census Bureau, which released the statistics on Thursday. 
 From 1997 to 2002, the total number of businesses in the United States grew about 10 percent, to 23 million from just under 21 million, according to the Census Bureau's most recent Survey of Business Owners, which is taken every five years. The bureau defined a business as an entity with revenue of $1,000 or more a year that files tax forms as an individual proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation. 
In 2002, African-Americans owned 1.2 million businesses, an increase of 45 percent, or more than four times the national growth rate. The number of Hispanic-owned businesses grew 31 percent, or about three times the overall growth rate, to 1.6 million businesses. The number of Asian-owned businesses grew 24 percent over the period. 
 The number of businesses owned by women increased by 20 percent, to 6.5 million, in the period. 
 The survey results were presented by the Census Bureau and the National Urban League at the league's annual meeting in Washington.
 Of the nation's 23 million businesses, only about a quarter -- or 5.5 million -- have paid employees. In the five-year period, the number of companies with more than one employee grew 4 percent, while single-employee companies grew 12 percent. 
 The number of minority-owned businesses with a single operator grew much faster than the average. Black-owned companies in this category grew the most of any minority group, at 51 percent, and Hispanic-owned firms followed, at 39 percent. 
 Ewen M. Wilson, the chief of the Census Bureau's company statistics division, said the data had not been sufficiently analyzed to explain why the growth among single-employee firms was so great. The Census Bureau hopes to release more data next year. 
 Marc H. Morial, the president of the National Urban League, said the statistics on single-employee firms emphasized the need to help existing minority-owned businesses become larger.
 ''There have to be economies of scale to provide services competitively with other companies,'' he said, ''and minority-owned companies have to grow to compete.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (94%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (70%) United States Economy; Blacks; Women; Hispanic-Americans; Minorities (US); Asian-Americans

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%) Census Bureau

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



564 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Despite Problems, Bush Continues to Make Advances on His Agenda

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
His problems remain many, and include the relentless violence in Iraq, the leak investigation that has ensnared some of his top aides and poll numbers that suggest substantial dissatisfaction with both his foreign and domestic policies. But President Bush has still had a pretty good July, showing how his own doggedness and a Republican majority in Congress have consistently allowed him to push his agenda forward even when the political winds are in his face.
 In a flurry of last-minute action as it prepared to recess, Congress on Thursday passed or stood at the brink of final action on several hard-fought measures that had been at the top of Mr. Bush's summer to-do list and that at times had seemed to be long shots. The House narrowly approved a new trade deal with Central American nations early on Thursday morning, the final hurdle for a pact that was one of the administration's top economic priorities this year. 
The House and Senate were wrapping up work Thursday on an energy bill that more or less conforms to what Mr. Bush has sought. And the two chambers were moving toward final passage of a transportation bill that contained enough pork to please lawmakers as they headed home, but with a price tag acceptable to the White House.
 Even as the legislative wheels turned in Mr. Bush's direction, the White House was watching with satisfaction as the president's choice to replace Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court, Judge John G. Roberts, continued to win support from all wings of the Republican Party while leaving Democrats with little that might threaten his confirmation.
 ''You can disagree with the merits of individual things, but there's a lot that's been done,'' said John B. Breaux, the former Democratic senator from Louisiana who often worked across party lines.
 The president's record over the past few weeks, combined with generally good economic news and word that the budget deficit is shrinking, suggests that Mr. Bush has hardly lapsed into the lame-duck status that Democrats had been hoping to assign him. 
 It also highlights yet again the importance of the time and effort he has put into helping retain the Republican majorities in the House and Senate, which for all their fractiousness tend to come through for him at the big moments. As he often does, Mr. Bush relied heavily on his party's leaders on Capitol Hill to make the deals necessary to achieve his broad legislative goals.
 ''If you had said a month ago that there would be a bill-signing ceremony for the energy bill, the transportation bill and Cafta, no one would have believed you,'' said David Winston, a Republican pollster, referring to the Central American Free Trade Agreement. ''If the last election was about giving the Republican Party the responsibility to govern, they've now shown that ability, and that's a very significant message for them to take back home.''
 Yet there are limits to the message from this string of positive outcomes for the administration and its allies in Congress. 
 Mr. Bush remains at odds with substantial elements of his own party, including some Congressional leaders, on issues like federal financing for embryonic stem cell research and immigration, both of which threaten to explode into messy legislative battles in the coming months. Democrats continue to attack him for ignoring the issues of most concern to voters, like health care. And with the exception of his Supreme Court selection, the batch of initiatives that the White House has put front and center this month show few signs of producing a big surge in political support for Mr. Bush.
 The energy bill gives Republicans, as the party in power, a chance to show that they responded to high gasoline prices, but the legislation is at most a modest start on addressing the nation's thirst for oil. The trade deal, while certainly a symbolic victory for the administration's economic philosophy at a time of growing protectionist pressures and hardening Democratic opposition, affects only a minuscule percentage of American exports.
 Looking ahead, it is not clear that whatever momentum Mr. Bush has picked up on Capitol Hill will do anything to give new impetus to the domestic initiative on which he had staked the most this year, his call to overhaul Social Security. 
 Democrats have been united in opposition to his plan to add investment accounts to Social Security, and have portrayed the issue as one that revealed how Mr. Bush had overreached in trying to place a conservative stamp on the nation. 
 Republicans have shown themselves reluctant to embrace his approach, and have backed far away from the White House's demand for a comprehensive approach that would also assure the retirement system's permanent solvency. 
 At the same time, Mr. Bush faces possible fallout from the investigation into the disclosure of the name of a Central Intelligence Agency operative. And in the long run, Mr. Bush's political fortunes seem wedded more than anything else to developments in Iraq, where the bloody insurgency shows no signs of weakening.
 ''The energy bill, the highway bill, Cafta -- they are all feathers in his cap, but they don't change the underlying drift in public opinion against him,'' said Doug Schoen, a Democratic pollster.
 If the nation has learned anything about Mr. Bush over the last four and a half years, though, it is that he pushes ahead with his agenda in the face of all kinds of crosscurrents. In doing so, he displays what many Democrats view as ideological rigidity that ignores reality and what many Republicans consider principled consistency that defies the political pressures of the moment.
 Mr. Bush shows every sign of sticking to his current path in Iraq. He has signaled that he will not abandon his push for changes to Social Security and is gearing up for an ambitious effort to overhaul the tax code. 
 It is not just Democrats that he will take on as the year progresses. While he seeks common ground with fellow Republicans on his approach to immigration, he has shown no signs of backing down from his proposal to grant temporary guest-worker status to many people who are in the United States illegally, despite intense opposition within the party. 
 Mr. Bush, Mr. Breaux said, operates by the adage Lawrence F. O'Brien Jr., Democratic Party chairman in the 1960's and '70's, used to cite: that there are ''no final victories'' in politics, only battle after battle to be fought.
 ''He's stubborn,'' Mr. Breaux said of Mr. Bush. ''He's persistent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (82%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROVALS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); BUDGETS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); JUDGES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Energy and Power; International Trade and World Market; United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation; Central American Free Trade Agreement

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN ROBERTS (56%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); NICARAGUA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) Guatemala; Nicaragua; El Salvador; Honduras; Dominican Republic; Costa Rica

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



565 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Pleas and Promises by G.O.P. As Trade Pact Wins by 2 Votes 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
It was just before midnight on Wednesday when Representative Robin Hayes capitulated.
 Mr. Hayes, a Republican whose district in North Carolina has lost thousands of textile jobs in the last four years, had defied President Bush and House Republican leaders by voting against the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta.
But the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, told him they needed his vote anyway. If he switched from ''nay'' to ''aye,'' Mr. Hayes recounted, Mr. Hastert promised to push for whatever steps he felt were necessary to restrict imports of Chinese clothing, which has been flooding into the United States in recent months. 
 As it turned out, the switch by Mr. Hayes was decisive. Within a few minutes, the House approved the trade pact by the paper-thin margin of two votes, 217 to 215. The pact would eliminate most trade barriers between the United States and Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
 The cliffhanger House vote was one of the most wrenching in Congress this year, and it highlighted the messy compromises that were necessary to overcome deep antagonism in many quarters toward trade-opening agreements.
 The restrictions Mr. Hastert promised could come soon. Within the next 10 days, the Bush administration is expected to rule on whether to impose import quotas on Chinese sweaters, wool trousers, bras and other goods.
 Mr. Hastert ''said to me, 'If you vote with me, we'll do everything we need to do in your district to help with jobs,''' Mr. Hayes recalled. 
 Democrats charged Republicans with buying votes and forcing members to vote against their consciences. 
 But Bush administration officials said the ultimate goal was one of high principle: an opening of the United States to greater competition and engagement with poorer countries in its own backyard, a liberation from trade barriers that would benefit Americans as well as their neighbors.
 ''This became much bigger than Cafta, because it became a political issue,'' said Rob Portman, the United States trade representative. ''It was important to our position as the global leader on trade, so we had to fight back, and to fight back meant being very aggressive, explaining why it was good.''
 Trade agreements have almost always been difficult to pass, because any reduction in barriers provokes intense opposition from unions and industries that would face new competition.
 But the Central American trade pact became a litmus test for both parties, a precedent for both the opportunities and dangers of freer international trade. 
 In economic terms, the Central American trade pact will have a negligible impact on the United States. About 80 percent of the exports from those countries to the United States were already duty-free, and the total trade volumes are tiny: American exports to the six countries -- about $17 billion a year -- are about equal to the annual global exports of New Jersey.
 Supporters of the trade pact said it was the principles at stake, a reaffirmation and an expansion of the much bigger North American Free Trade Agreement of 1994 that linked the United States, Mexico and Canada.
 Like Nafta, the Central American free trade pact will eliminate most barriers to trade in goods and services and most barriers to investment. It will give American companies tough new legal rights to enforce patents and copyrights in other member countries, and it may give some pharmaceutical companies even greater protection against generic drugs in Central America than they have in the United States.
 But labor unions and their Democratic allies charge that the pact offers strong backing to corporations while offering little additional protection to low-wage workers in Central America. As a result, they contend, it will encourage American companies to shift more jobs to those countries.
 Whatever the economic merits, the vote on Wednesday night made it clear that the political appeal of the trade agreement was low. Only 15 Democrats supported the measure.
 And despite intense pressure from President Bush and House Republican leaders, 27 Republicans voted against the deal; many others badly wanted to do so. 
 The biggest opposition among Republicans came from textile producing states in the south, sugar-producing states like Louisiana and Idaho and old-line manufacturing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 House Republican leaders kept the voting open for almost a full hour, in violation of the normal 15-minute time limit. They spent much of that time wrestling with about 10 rebellious but ''undecided'' Republicans, pleading and pressuring one after another to vote for the agreement.
 One of the strangest votes was by Representative Charles H. Taylor, Republican of North Carolina, who had vowed to vote against the pact because of his concerns for textile workers.
 But as the minutes ticked by, Mr. Taylor was one of only two members recorded as not voting. By not voting, he gave Republicans a two-vote victory rather than a one-vote margin.
 But on Thursday, Mr. Taylor insisted that there had been an error in the electronic voting system and that he had indeed voted against the measure.
 ''I voted NO,'' Mr. Taylor announced in a terse statement on Thursday, saying the House clerk's written log showed his vote and that he would seek to have the vote registered as a ''no.''
 Democrats, who have already lined up a potent challenger to Mr. Taylor for the next election, accused him of trying to have it both ways.
 ''He seemed to find time to vote for procedural motions and legislation that had nothing to do with North Carolina,'' said Bill Burton, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, ''but he couldn't seem to figure out how to squeeze in the time to vote against a trade deal that could cost North Carolina thousands of jobs.''
 But business groups, including even some parts of the textile industry, lobbied fiercely in favor of the trade pact. The National Association of Manufacturers, the Chamber of Commerce and the American Farm Bureau Federation all supported the agreement and pushed hard.
 One Republican who agonized over the vote was Representative Mark Foley of Florida, whose district includes some of the biggest sugar producers in the country.
 Mr. Foley, a member of the House leadership team responsible for lining up votes, supported the bill even though he staunchly opposed the pact because it would allow higher sugar imports. 
 ''It was difficult, a gut-wrenching night,'' Mr. Foley said on Thursday. President Bush called him about 8:20 p.m. Wednesday to plead for his vote, he said, and Republican leaders had already made it clear that they would punish the sugar industry in the next farm bill if they managed to defeat the trade pact.
 ''If the administration thinks that sugar brought about the demise of this, there would have been hell to pay in the farm bill,'' Mr. Foley said. ''This was somewhat of a vote for the survival of my constituents.'' 
 Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, accused Republican leaders of trading anything they had to get the votes they needed.
 ''Once again, the floor of the House of Representatives resembled the set of 'Let's Make a Deal,''' Ms. Pelosi said Thursday.
 ''What was the cost to the U.S. taxpayer for the president, with all of his power and all of his influence at his disposal, what was the cost to U.S. taxpayers of his very slim margin?''
 The full answer will not be known for some time. Opponents of the trade pact said Republicans lured many lawmakers by earmarking billions of dollars for pet projects in a $286 billion highway spending bill. 
 The House and Senate conferees said they had reached agreement on the overall transportation bill, but as of Thursday night they had not made any details public.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A newspaper in San Salvador yesterday had the headline ''Yes to TLC,'' which are the Spanish initials for the free trade agreement. (Photo by Luis Galdamez/Reuters)
 The switch by Representative Robin Hayes was decisive. (Photo by Chuck Barton/Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TEXTILES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (69%) International Trade and World Market; Central American Free Trade Agreement; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROB PORTMAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Robin (Rep) Hayes

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NICARAGUA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); COSTA RICA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%) Costa Rica; Dominican Republic; El Salvador; Guatemala; Honduras; Nicaragua

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



566 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Energy Bill, but Has Less Luck With Transportation Measure

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
The House easily passed a broad energy measure Thursday but approval of a major transportation bill hit a last-minute snag as lawmakers tried to advance two long-stalled pieces of legislation that Congressional leaders said would provide thousands of Americans with employment and lawmakers with concrete proof of accomplishment.
 Despite objections that the energy plan was flawed by subsidies to industry and a failure to curb national demand for gasoline, the measure was approved on a bipartisan 275-to-156 vote, leaving the Bush administration close to fulfilling one of its earliest policy goals.
The Senate was expected to approve the measure Friday. Both the House and the Senate were also planning to send a $286.5 billion highway and mass transit plan to President Bush, finishing off two significant bills that have been tied up for years by regional fights, spending disputes and environmental objections. 
 ''The legislative logjam we have experienced over a number of years has been broken,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky.
 Though negotiators reached a tentative agreement on the highway spending plan on Wednesday, the text of the bill was kept under wraps Thursday even as the House headed toward a vote. 
 When the measure reached the floor late Thursday night, a handful of House members immediately objected to a Senate provision they said was an attempt to keep a Montana military base open when House members were grappling with base closures called for by a presidential commission. 
 ''What we are seeing here is absolutely outrageous,'' said Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut. The angry objections slowed consideration of the highway bill. 
 As Congress dealt with that measure and a flurry of other legislation in the days before it recessed, Republican leaders in the House and Senate seized on the imminent enactment of the initiatives as an opportunity to crow about their ability to get things done -- even if it sometimes took a while.
 ''Have we done everything we wanted to do?'' Representative J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, the House speaker, asked. ''Not exactly. But we have done an awful lot.''
 While Republican leaders celebrated, opponents of the measures criticized their costs, their taxpayer-financed benefits for the energy industry and, in the case of the highway measure, the thousands of home-state projects sought by lawmakers eager for public works projects to take home to voters.
 ''The transportation bill contains a record 4,000 earmarks, which is an ignominious achievement for Republicans,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, referring to the pet projects. ''I hope President Bush sticks to his guns and vetoes this bill; Congress could use the adult supervision.''
 But Republicans heralded the two initiatives as a boon to the nation's employment picture. ''This is about jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs,'' said Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri.
 A significant number of Democrats supported both measures, but the Democratic leadership was not ready to rate the work of the Republican majority a success.
 ''In the past 100 days, Republicans found time to confirm right-wing judges, to protect Karl Rove and to take up the business of their special-interest friends,'' Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader, said in a statement.
 Trying to complete its work, the House also gave final approval to a spending bill for the Interior Department that included $1.5 billion to cover a shortfall in money for veterans' health care. 
 In a move the White House welcomed, the House passed legislation limiting punitive damages in some medical malpractice cases and imposing other restrictions. But similar bills have not progressed in the Senate in the past.
 The energy bill spreads an estimated $14.5 billion in tax breaks over 10 years among the oil, nuclear and coal industries, renewable fuels like wind and solar energy and energy efficiency and conservation. Another $1.6 billion will be spent directly on energy programs and research.
 The bill contains a total of more than $80 billion in potential spending, though most of those projects will be at the future discretion of Congress.
 Supporters said that by encouraging growth in the renewable-fuels industry and raising domestic production of traditional sources like oil, gas and coal, the bill should lead to less reliance on oil imports.
 ''It is not a perfect bill,'' said Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee and an influential party voice on the issue. ''But it is a good beginning to develop an energy strategy for the 21st century. It is the best that can be constructed at this time.''
 Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, acknowledged that the measure would have little immediate impact on high energy costs, saying ''we didn't get into this overnight, and we're not going to get out of overnight.'' 
 But Mr. McClellan joined Congressional leaders in describing the bill as a step toward reducing American dependence on foreign oil.
 ''This legislation helped address the root causes of high energy prices,'' he said. ''It will expand domestic production, it will increase conservation, and it will improve reliability of our electricity system.''
 Businesses interests also welcomed the passage of the energy bill. ''It seems to balance pretty well the research and development and energy efficiency along with additional means of production,'' said William L. Kovacs, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
 Though the bill dodged the issue of fuel economy, Dan Brouillette, a Washington representative of the Ford Motor Company, said that new tax breaks for owners of hybrid cars should ''accelerate the expansion of advanced-technology vehicles and to achieve the volumes needed to make them more affordable.''
 Critics said that the bill fell far short, citing its subsidies for profitable industries, exemptions from environmental laws and failure to address automotive fuel consumption or global warming.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of New York's Congressional delegation -- from left, Representatives Sherwood Boehlert, a Republican, and Jerrold D. Nadler, a Democrat, and Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, both Democrats -- happily took questions about the transportation bill, which later stalled. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VETO (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); CLOSINGS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); GASOLINE (56%) Energy and Power; Roads and Traffic; Transit Systems

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); JEFF FLAKE (58%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



567 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Hones Campaign Themes as G.O.P. Seeks Candidate for Governor

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 28 

 BODY:
As he prepares for a post-Pataki era in state government, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer portrayed himself on Thursday as the candidate who can put New York's fiscal house in order.
 A day after the three-term Republican governor, George E. Pataki, announced his decision not to seek a fourth term, Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, cited several core areas of state government that he described as troubled, and he vowed to tackle them if he is elected to succeed Mr. Pataki next year. For example, he said Medicaid, a program that makes up $44.5 billion of the state's overall $106.6 billon budget, is troubled by ''massive fraud,'' and he acknowledged that he needed to do more to fight it. 
 He said the higher education system was ''not capitalizing'' on all the right investments. He said the state's debt load, particularly in the vast network of state authorities, was ''rampantly out of control.''
 ''We have to control health care costs while investing in education, transportation and energy,'' Mr. Spitzer told reporters after a breakfast meeting with municipal and business leaders in Schenectady, N.Y., to hear ideas about job creation. 
 The attorney general's comments landed in a bit of a vacuum politically, as Albany political circles are focused on the Republicans' search for a candidate to run for governor. Potential Republican candidates for governor gathered in Buffalo on Thursday to meet with party leaders.
 Democrats were apparently feeling frisky. In an e-mail message, the state Democratic Party issued a mock ''Help Wanted'' advertisement for a Republican candidate for governor. Among the qualifications: ''Good shoes for an uphill political battle,'' a reference to Mr. Spitzer's popularity.
 But despite any seeming disarray across the aisle, Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the state Democratic chairman, said Democrats were taking nothing for granted. ''We are making sure that we understand that the election has to be won; no one is coronated in this state,'' said Mr. Farrell. ''Eliot will be running a campaign full force.'' 
 Stephen J. Minarik III, the state Republican chairman, charged that Mr. Spitzer had neither made good on promises to overhaul Albany, nor provided specifics in his policy plans. ''It's just more talk from Eliot Spitzer,'' he said. As for the Democrats' ''Help Wanted'' ad, he said it appeared that they had conceded the New York City mayor's race to Republicans. 
 In his own comments, Mr. Spitzer was careful not to single out Mr. Pataki for criticism by name. But on issue after issue, he vowed to provide the kind of vision he said was missing over the last decade. Interestingly, Mr. Pataki has sometimes used similar colorful language, about so-called failed policies of the past, to contrast his term in office -- with that of the man he vanquished in 1994, Mario M. Cuomo. 
 Andrew Rush, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said he would leave politics to others, but defended the governor's record.
 ''Even the casual observer knows that Governor Pataki has provided the leadership and vision that has made this state a better place for New Yorkers from Buffalo to Montauk,'' said Mr. Rush. ''From record investments in education, to creating a world-class health care system, to cutting taxes and making New York a world leader in high-tech development, the governor's record of success is clear and he is committed to continuing these policies over the next 17 months.''
 Still, Mr. Spitzer focused on several areas. Specifically, he said, ''we need a transportation policy so that we can build the infrastructure we need, whether it's rail, highways, airports.'' On energy, he spoke of building a foundation to ''have the energy supply and the grid that will provide for our manufacturing facilities, the cheap energy they need. We have not seen that vision over the last decade.''
 On higher education, Mr. Spitzer said the state was getting ''the best and the brightest,'' but said, ''we are not capitalizing through our SUNY system, through our private universities, we are not capitalizing on the opportunities presented by bringing together educational systems and the economy and government to build the foundation that we need for our economic growth.''
 On health care, he called Medicaid's costs, ''an enormous problem,'' and said the Department of Health must do more to reduce them. Overall, he said government's job was to exercise ''fiscal restraint,'' and rein in health care costs.
 ''The various, most important, substantive areas where the state needs to articulate policy and lay out a blueprint and a direction, we will have that vision,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''We will articulate it. We have not seen it, in my view, adequately, in any of those areas.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%); JOB CREATION (51%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; George E (Gov) Pataki; Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



568 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: A Third-World 'Farm Aid,' So to Speak

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
Late last year, in hotel rooms and photo studios in Los Angeles, New York and London, a group of celebrities agreed to get doused with buckets of coffee, milk, cocoa and sugar. It was messy, sticky and sometimes smelly, but it was all in the name of easing world poverty. 
 The photo shoots were organized by the nonprofit advocacy group Oxfam America as part of an ad campaign to raise awareness of what they say is the unfair nature of agricultural subsidies. The campaign urges wealthy nations like the United States and European countries to stop dumping agricultural products onto the world market, which Oxfam argues makes it impossible for farmers in poor countries to compete. 
The celebrities who agreed to be dumped on -- the actors Minnie Driver, Colin Firth and Antonio Banderas; U2's lead singer, Bono; Coldplay's lead singer, Chris Martin; R.E.M.'s lead singer, Michael Stipe; Alanis Morrissette; and Radiohead's lead singer, Thom Yorke -- say they donated their time for the campaign because they believe it is important to level the playing field for developing nations.
 ''People think more aid will help, but it won't,'' said Ms. Driver, an actress who is working on her second music CD. ''Trade is the surest way of decreasing the savage amount of poverty in our world. These countries have got to be able to trade fairly.''
 Ms. Driver, whose ad features cotton, said she was inspired to participate in the Oxfam campaign after traveling with the group to Cambodia and Thailand last year. She toured clothing factories where women, some in obvious poor health, worked in substandard conditions for menial wages. Cambodia and Thailand are not cotton-producing nations, but Ms. Driver said she chose that agricultural product because she needed to remain relatively clean after her photograph, since she was in the middle of a press tour for a London play. 
 The ads, shot free by the celebrity photographer Greg Williams, will run this fall in national magazines. The campaign is being produced by Benenson Janson Advertising, a small agency in Los Angeles whose recent work has included a series of ads for the American Civil Liberties Union and a voter registration campaign for a group started by the film producer Norman Lear. 
 Oxfam's efforts come amid increasing criticism of the some $190 billion in annual crop subsidies that governments in places like the United States, the European Union and Japan pay to their domestic farmers, according to estimates by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This year the United States will spend $14 billion on subsidies to cotton, rice, corn, wheat and soybeans farmers, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
 In the United States, Oxfam is primarily focused on the impact that cotton and rice subsidies have on global markets.
 Oxfam contends that multibillion-dollar subsidies, which they say go primarily to big companies, not small family farmers, encourage overproduction and lower the price American producers charge on the global market.
 ''A cotton producer in the U.S. might produce a pound of cotton for 70 cents, whereas a West African farmer produces it for 45 cents,'' said Raymond C. Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America, an affiliate of Oxfam International, which is based in Oxford, England. ''The West African farmer should have an advantage, but our subsidies allow the U.S. farmer to undersell the African farmer. He's selling it way under his production costs.'' 
 Originally created during the Depression to help farmers survive and to promote the stable growth of American agriculture, subsidy programs have continued in part because of strong lobbying by farm groups. These groups argue that, in addition to helping farmers, subsidies serve consumers by keeping the prices of manufactured goods low. Oxfam, however, says the impact of subsidy reduction on consumer prices would be miniscule.
 United States trade officials and cotton producers suffered a blow in June 2004 when the World Trade Organization ruled that American cotton subsidies violated international trade rules by depressing world prices and harming farmers in Brazil and elsewhere. A trade appeals court affirmed this ruling in March, but the subsidies have continued. Government payments to American cotton farmers have totaled $16 billion in the last seven years. 
 Last August, during the World Trade Organization meeting in Geneva, wealthy nations showed signs of willingness to make changes to their practice of supporting generous subsidies. The United States agreed to have talks with four impoverished, cotton-producing West African nations -- Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad and Mali -- about reducing its $2 billion to $4 billion in annual cotton subsidies. 
 Oxfam America estimates that from 2001 to 2003, the presence of artificially cheap American cotton on the world market caused an estimated $400 million in losses to farmers in these West African nations. American producers account for roughly 40 percent of the world's cotton exports, giving them considerable influence over prices, according to the International Cotton Advisory Committee, an association of the governments of cotton producing and consuming nations.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Stipe, the lead singer of R.E.M., covered in milk in an Oxfam America ad that criticizes what it calls unfair agricultural subsidies. (pg. C1)
 Thom Yorke of Radiohead in an Oxfam ad. The ad seeks to raise awareness about wealthy nations flooding poorer ones with cheap products. (pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CELEBRITIES (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RICE FARMING (75%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (74%); COTTON FARMING (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MUSIC (68%); APPAREL MFG (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%) Agriculture; Cotton; Dairy Products; Milk; Cocoa; Coffee; Sugar; Advertising and Marketing; Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Third World and Developing Countries; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Celebrities

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM AMERICA (93%) Oxfam America; Benenson Janson Advertising

PERSON: CHRIS MARTIN (79%); BONO (67%) Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); THAILAND (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005



569 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: 6 Nations Work on Principles for North Korean Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 29 

 BODY:
Six-nation talks in Beijing aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program entered a new stage on Friday, as the countries began to wrangle over a joint statement of principles that may move them toward further disarmament negotiations.
 ''Today I think we went into a new phase,'' the United States' chief negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, told reporters. ''We began to look at actual texts, actual words on paper.''
The United States and North Korea met privately again on Friday -- the fourth such meeting since the formal talks convened in Beijing four days ago -- to discuss the proposed joint statement. Mr. Hill said those discussions had been difficult and disagreements remained. But common ground is emerging, he said. ''They, too, were trying to stay in the ballpark,'' Mr. Hill said of North Korea's terms. ''We've got a way to go,'' he added. ''We are addressing the tough questions.'' 
 The talks, which include China, South Korea, Japan and Russia, have involved a daily multiple-interpreter waltz of bilateral meetings and joint discussions. The chief South Korean negotiator, Song Min Soon, told reporters that the talks may extend into next week, China's official New China News Agency reported. The agency also reported that American and North Korean delegates were to meet privately again on Saturday, but Mr. Hill would not confirm that.
 Mr. Hill, talking to reporters as he left his hotel room in the morning, said, ''We are here for the long haul, and we are here until we make some progress.'' 
 He likened the negotiations to pushing a rock up a ''very steep hill,'' and said the participating countries needed to maintain momentum if they were to avoid damaging delays.
 The Americans and North Koreans remain at loggerheads over the ''sequence'' of North Korean disarmament moves and corresponding rewards from the United States and its allies, Mr. Hill said. North Korea has insisted that the United States resume economic aid and give the government enhanced political recognition before it moves to disarm; but the United States has insisted that North Korea disarm first. 
 ''It's not going to be so easy, because the D.P.R.K. has ideas about how we have to normalize relations,'' Mr. Hill said, referring to North Korea as the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The two sides also discussed the North's uranium enrichment program, which it could be using to assemble nuclear weapons, he said.
 Mr. Hill suggested that the United States and North Korea could still inch past their deep disagreements, including whether North Korea could have a civilian nuclear power program, to agree on principles and then leave specifics for future talks. ''I believe that if everyone agrees where we're going, we can agree on the intermediate steps,'' he said after the meetings. ''We're making progress.'' 
 The most difficult negotiations still lie ahead, however, as the countries move from broad principles to specific steps and concessions, observers said.
 ''It's encouraging that we've now had four rounds of bilaterals, but we'll need many more of them to achieve a breakthrough,'' said Peter Beck, a Seoul-based analyst of North Korea's nuclear program for the International Crisis Group, a private organization that provides advice on security issues. The ''Agreed Framework'' that the United States and North Korea signed in October 1994 ''took hundreds of hours of negotiations,'' he noted. 
 Under that agreement, North Korea froze its nuclear reactors at Yongbyon, 60 miles north of Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, and in return the United States supported an international effort to supply North Korea with oil and promised to help build two internationally monitored nuclear reactors.
 That deal fell apart in 2002, when North Korea conspicuously refused to deny American claims that it was secretly making weapons-grade uranium and then announced it would restart the frozen reactors. 
 ''Even just a symbolic statement is a lot of work,'' Mr. Beck said of the current Beijing talks, ''and the signs are that they haven't started the give and take of real, substantial negotiations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; Japan; Russia

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



570 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: A Guiding Light Leaves a Church In the Bronx

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
The Rev. Eddie Lopez Jr. always pursued a ministry that went against the currents of politics and popular opinion. Since becoming pastor of La Resurreccion United Methodist Church in the South Bronx in 1988, he has started a needle exchange, supported Puerto Rican nationalists, opposed wars abroad and fought for jobs and housing at home.
 It was a journey of faith and feet, with a congregation that moved three times as it grew, starting in a storefront and finally settling into a 19th-century brick church in Melrose. That neighborhood was once bombed out, but has been rebuilt.
And once again, Mr. Lopez is bucking trends: while the neighborhood celebrates its rebirth, the pastor of the Church of the Resurrection is leaving not just his sanctuary, but the Methodist Church, too. 
 This is not what he or his congregation wanted. They imagined he would be there for decades, growing with a community abuzz with promise.
 After all, he has been a familiar figure at protests and vigils throughout the city over the last two decades. But the congregation -- now numbering about 65 people -- did not grow fast enough to cover the costs of church and pastor. Methodist officials declined to provide a loan to cover the pastor's expenses for a year, despite pleas from the congregation.
 So last Sunday Mr. Lopez, 45, led his final service. Then he said goodbye.
 ''They can take the walls away, but they can't take away the community we built,'' he said to a church filled with more than 120 people. ''What we have built over the last 17 years is our victory. You know, we have found a pearl. We have found a treasure. We have found a community that cares.''
 Most of the Bronx congregations he encountered when he became a Methodist minister in 1988 were struggling. He was working as a chaplain at Rikers Island when he was hired as pastor of El Redentor United Methodist Church, a tiny congregation that was housed in a dilapidated storefront on Vyse Avenue.
 ''One night, we were coming out of the church, opening the big doors,'' he said. ''There were people walking by who just started screaming. They thought the church had been shut down. They said when the doors opened up, they thought the spirits were coming out.''
 They were right, in a way, since Mr. Lopez's vision for his ministry was one that was fully involved in the community. 
 He soon moved services to a nearby Episcopal church that rented him space. When the congregation -- and the rent -- increased, he asked Methodist officials to help find another building.
 He and his congregation merged in 1990 with a five-member Spanish-speaking congregation that worshiped in the basement of a Methodist church off Tremont Avenue. The upper sanctuary was limited to an older African-American congregation, he said.
 It was in that basement one Easter Sunday that he impulsively suggested the congregation be renamed La Resurreccion. Scores of people soon attended services, which made their basement chapel uncomfortable in many ways.
 ''There was this psychological thing about being in the basement,'' he said. ''Like, what are we, second-class citizens? I told an assistant to the bishop we can't last here because the church will die here.''
 The solution was to move in 1994 to the Elton Avenue United Methodist Church, which was built by Germans in the era when breweries were located in Melrose. The building was a wreck. It took his congregation two years just to get church officials to convene various Methodist agencies in order to get them to commit $500,000 for renovations, which took until the end of 2001.
 Stalwarts stayed with him, even when they worshiped in the street during renovations. In time, more people joined, including Latino professionals who were looking for a church that was socially engaged.
 ''The church's message was 'If you're going to heaven, take somebody with you,''' said Hector Soto, a lawyer with the Children's Defense Fund. ''The ministry is not limited. There is an active duty as a member of a religious community.''
 Until last year, Mr. Lopez was able to devote his time to the church and to holding a job with the missionary agency of the Methodist Church. But when Methodist officials reorganized the agency, they told him they needed somebody full time. 
 He chose his congregation. It was hardly able to cover his $35,000 salary, not to mention his health insurance and rent.
 The congregation approached a regional church official, the Rev. Noel Chin, for help in providing a bridge loan to cover the pastor's salary and benefits for a year.
 Several members of the congregation and Mr. Lopez said that Mr. Chin agreed at first. But they said he told them last month that the bishop's cabinet decided against it.
 Bishop Jeremiah Park's office deferred all comment to Mr. Chin, who said that while he was supportive of their request, the final decision lay with the bishop's cabinet. 
 ''The church has been supported for a number of years, and per capita it has gotten the biggest support across the conference,'' Mr. Chin said. ''We will be supporting them this year. But we do not have enough to rise to the level they were asking.''
 That decision has left members of the congregation feeling betrayed just when they were hopeful about the future. They note how in six months this year they have almost matched last year's total church offerings of $16,000.
 ''We're not asking for handouts,'' said Justino Rodriguez, president of the church council. ''We were asking for support during a critical period.''
 Julio Pabon, a business executive who once was active in state and city politics, said the hierarchy reminded him of politicians who once wrote off the Bronx. 
 ''We recruited people who had stopped coming to church a long time ago,'' he said. ''We asked Chin, 'Does that not have a price?'''
 A part-time minister will now replace Mr. Lopez, who decided to hand in his religious credentials. He may become an Episcopal priest, but his priority now is to find a job.
 ''After 17 years, I'm turning in my orders,'' he said. ''If the Methodist church can't work it out for me here, there is no other place they can make it work for me.''
 Bishop Park, he said, has not responded to his letter of resignation. Nor have local politicians helped, he said, even though some of them were quick to praise him when all it cost were words. The economic development group his church started will go into hibernation.
 Rosanna Rosado-Baez, who ran the group, says she will take a break from any church.
 ''The way I look at it, the way I served here is going to bring me whatever piece of heaven I'm going to get,'' she said. ''This is not happening again.''
 Word of Mr. Lopez's departure spread through the neighborhood, drawing dozens to church on Sunday. Among them were four families who insisted that Mr. Lopez baptize their children. In the middle of the service, he welcomed them to the church he was leaving. 
 ''We had to get this in,'' said Amy Delgado, who started at the congregation 20 years ago, when it was in a storefront. ''He's done everything for us. He's led me. He brought out my Christianity.''
 He later thanked his congregation for what they had accomplished, together, in a place that was -- as he reminded them -- a pearl. 
 ''I thought it would be a little easier,'' he said afterward. ''Seventeen years. I guess it's a long time.''
 Downstairs after services, friends and family surrounded him. Each of them came up for a final hug or word. 
 Blanca Young and her husband, Lionel, had a look of disbelief as they said goodbye. They remember the exact day they first met the pastor, in 2001. 
 ''We were in a shelter; it was Thanksgiving,'' she said. ''We were hungry. They came around in a van looking for people. They brought us here for dinner.''
 Her husband, his eyes as red-rimmed as hers, nodded. Charity may have brought them here, but something else kept them. 
 They recalled all the days they spent helping clean up the yard or setting up fairs. They also recalled how the congregation gave them their first Christmas tree when they found a real home. It's hard to forget that kind of thing.
 ''I don't want to leave,'' Ms. Young said. ''But I should, before I get emotional.''
 They walked off arm in arm, under a bright sun that shone on new homes, a sturdy and simple church and their tear-streaked faces.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Eddie Lopez Jr. as he prepared for his last sermon last Sunday. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Congregants at La Resurreccion United Methodist Church in the South Bronx tearfully said farewell to the Rev. Eddie Lopez Jr. on Sunday. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%) Methodist Churches ; Wages and Salaries; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: Church of the Resurrection (NYC)

PERSON: David Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



571 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: A Windfall for the M.T.A.

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, long strapped for cash, has suddenly found itself with an $833 million surplus. Election-bound politicians have quickly demanded that the money be used to stave off planned fare increases. Transit officials, meanwhile, have floated the idea of using most of the money to build a platform over the West Side railyards to make the site more valuable for future real estate development. 
 Both ideas are problematic, but the M.T.A. is right in assuming that the surplus, which comes from higher-than-expected tax revenues, is probably a one-time occurrence and should be used to strengthen its long-term financial stability. That could mean something as simple as paying down some of the authority's pension obligations. But it does not translate into a sound reason for promising to change the plans for future fare increases.
This year's long-running conflict over the unwise plan for a football stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan made it clear that the M.T.A. has a valuable asset in the railyards. Spending much of the windfall to erect a platform could create an extraordinary economic opportunity, but the idea may meet resistance. At a time when the authority is rightfully demanding money from the federal government to improve security in the area's mass transit system, and preparing to demand more sacrifice from riders in the form of higher fares, it may be hard to sell the idea of investing hundreds of millions of dollars in real estate speculation. 
 The M.T.A. has never seriously looked into how much money it could get by selling development rights for the property as is. The only previous auction took place in an atmosphere in which any developer who made a bid ran the risk of angering the powerful city and state leaders who wanted the area to be part of the overall plan for a New York Jets football stadium. The authority should begin by investigating those options. It should also assure New Yorkers that whatever it does will not involve a resurrection of the plan to waste what could be one of the prime areas for Manhattan development on a hulking and unnecessary football stadium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%) Transit Systems; Editorials; Finances; Taxation; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



572 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Suggestions Of Strength In Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Businesses and households went on a shopping spree this spring, causing warehouse stockpiles to shrink and setting the stage for faster economic growth during the rest of the year. 
 The spending helped extend a solid if unspectacular expansion in the second quarter, when the economy grew at an annual rate of 3.4 percent, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, down from 3.8 percent in the first quarter. 
 Companies took advantage of the weaker dollar to ship more goods abroad, while imports reversed course and fell slightly. It was the first time since 1991 that exports rose and imports dropped in the same quarter. 
In a sign of better times to come, housing construction, consumer spending and corporate investment increased more rapidly this spring than production did, causing inventories to decline sharply. Economists said companies, especially carmakers, were likely to accelerate production in the second half to rebuild their stockpiles, lifting overall growth. 
 ''When you've got a decline in inventories this large, it's unintended,'' said David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley. ''Now producers will start to play catch up.''
 Forecasters said yesterday's report would lead them to raise their growth projections for the rest of the year; Morgan Stanley now expects growth of better than 5 percent during the third quarter, up from an earlier prediction of 3.7 percent. In the second quarter, growth exceeded 3 percent for the ninth consecutive quarter, the longest such streak since the mid-1980's.
 The yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose to 4.28 percent yesterday from 4.19 percent on Thursday, as investors apparently took the healthy growth as a signal that the Federal Reserve would keep raising its benchmark interest rate to keep inflation tame. 
 The steady expansion has continued over the last year despite two problems that have often derailed economies in the past. Oil prices have spiked and now hover around $60 a barrel, their highest level in inflation-adjusted terms since the early 1980's. And the job market, while improving, remains weak enough that wage growth trails inflation for most workers.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said yesterday that wages and salaries rose 2.4 percent during the 12 months that ended in June.
 The high cost of health care is one reason companies are trying to avoid giving raises; benefit costs increased 5.1 percent over the last year, the government reported. Overseas competition has also hurt wages.
 ''There are still a lot of price pressures and margin pressures on businesses,'' said Bill Zadrozny, chief executive of Siemens Financial Services, which lends money to businesses. ''Being able to pass through costs is not easy.''
 Inflation has been running about 3 percent recently.
 Consumer spending slowed slightly during the quarter, one reason that overall economic growth dropped somewhat. 
 As part of its regular revisions, the Commerce Department announced that the economy did not perform quite as well between 2002 and 2004 as had initially been estimated. Last year, it expanded 4.2 percent, not 4.4 percent.
 But the housing boom has been strong enough to make up for many of the economy's other problems. The building of new houses in the Southeast and the West has created thousands of jobs, while soaring home values in California and the Northeast have allowed homeowners to take on more debt and increase their spending.
 Residential spending grew at an annual rate of 9.8 percent in the second quarter, up from 9.5 percent during the first three months of the year, the Commerce Department reported.
 Housing has become important enough that a sharp rise in mortgage rates could potentially halt the economy's expansion. So far, though, mortgage rates, which are set by investors, have remained low even as the Fed has lifted its benchmark rate to 3.25 percent from 1 percent at the start of last summer.
 ''Anybody who was still holding out hope that they were almost done probably has to throw in the towel'' after yesterday's report, said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist at MFR, a research company in New York. ''Things are shaping up for a second half of the year that's quite perky.''
 Many analysts expect the Fed to raise the benchmark rate to about 4 percent by the end of the year. That would put some pressure on mortgage rates, but a host of other factors, including the growth of China, will probably keep them from spiking soon, economists say.
 The corporate sector's recovery from the aftermath of the 1990's bubble also helped growth in the spring. Spending on new equipment and factories rose at annual rate of 9 percent, up from a 5.7 percent increase in the first quarter and roughly matching the growth rate in 2004. 
 Those good times seem poised to continue. A survey of Midwestern purchasing managers released yesterday offered some early evidence of the growth spurt that could come from the recent fall in inventories. Production and new orders both surged in July, after having slowed for much of the spring, according to the Chicago branch of the National Association of Purchasing Management.
 In the second quarter, final sales -- a measure of economic growth that does not take inventories into account -- grew at an annual rate of 5.8 percent. In only one other quarter since 1999 has the increase been so large.
 The fall in the nation's trade deficit was good news for workers, executives and policy makers who have grown concerned that the United States does not make enough of what it buys. Together, imports and exports added 1.6 percentage points to the quarter's growth; in previous recent quarters, they had shaved between 1 and 3 percentage points off growth.
 But economists said the turnabout was unlikely to be permanent. The dollar has risen in recent months against the euro and the yen, and there is still little sign that the economies of Europe or Japan are on the verge of a burst in growth.
 ''The U.S. is growing faster than the rest of the world,'' Mr. Greenlaw said. ''It's very difficult to cut into your trade deficit in that environment.''

 Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)(pg. C13)

Chart: ''Real Economic Growth''
Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation.

Graph tracks annual rate of change since the last two quarters of 2001.

(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C13)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers shopped earlier this month at an Oilily store in Palo Alto, Calif., in a continuation of vigorous spending from the second quarter. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%) United States Economy; Housing; Building (Construction); Wages and Salaries; Production; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%); SIEMENS AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US); National Assn of Purchasing Management

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); SIN (SWX) (50%); SIE (LSE) (50%); SIE (FRA) (50%); SIE (BIT) (50%); SI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



573 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW: With W.J. Tauzin; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words

PERSON: W.J. Tauzin

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
THE former congressman, W.J. ''Billy'' Tauzin of Louisiana, left Capitol Hill last year and, in January, became chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the trade association known as PhRMA. 
 Mr. Tauzin started his new assignment with a unique perspective. In addition to serving as a principal congressional author of the Medicare prescription drug benefit, he also recently underwent treatment for duodenal cancer, including surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. 
Serving an Industry That Saved HimWhile he is an admirer of the industry, Mr. Tauzin advocates strong measures to repair its flagging image. He recently discussed that topic at the group's headquarters in Washington. Following are excerpts of that conversation:

Q. How do you think your cancer treatment has changed your perception of the industry?

A. It's one of the principal reasons I'm here. It dawned on me -- and my wife and I talked about this, too -- what a better mission for me than to go back in and help the companies that essentially saved my life. It's as much a mission for me as anything I've done in public service. And I'm with companies that desperately need some help. They went from being the pinnacles of respect and admiration -- Merck was the most admired company for seven years in a row in America -- to an industry that's thought of as profiteering off of illness.

Q. What do you think led to that shift in perception?

A. I think pharmaceutical companies kind of went through what most corporations in American went through: too heavy a focus on the top, people looking down on it from Wall Street -- making the numbers, the stock value and being successful companies in the economic sense. And I think they lost a little bit of a touch with looking down at their customer base: patients in America, and what they were all about.

Q. You will release details Tuesday of voluntary industry guidelines for drug advertising, which has been controversial. What was the thinking that got you to this point?

A. We're speaking about an area that's different from ice cream, bubble gum and automobiles. We're speaking about an area that's critical to people's lives. And the discussions about them have to be special. The vast majority of people watching them don't have the problem that the ads are talking about. And for those that don't have the problem, when you look at the ads up until very recently, they look like people were pushing medicines on them when they didn't need them. It looked like profiteering.

Q. The industry has expanded its program to help needy Americans get drugs. What else is the industry doing?

A. We're working right now in 12 states with different Rx programs designed to provide deep discounts for the last group in America that never gets discounts: the uninsured. They're the folks that generally pay full price at the pharmacy. We're also building concepts that we want to take to Congress: How can we be partners with players here in Washington to come up with ideas to encourage employers not only to continue but to expand their insurance coverage to include pharmaceutical products? We're taking medicines to help us through the day and to help us maintain our health. But as it grows, insurance has to follow it. And it hasn't in America. It's the reason why people get on a bus and go to Canada, because there's no insurance coverage.

Q. How is the Medicare prescription drug coverage going to affect the industry?

A. The challenge is to make sure seniors see an advantage in enrolling. Because like every other insurance coverage, you have to have broad enrollment. Otherwise only the sick people sign up and the premiums go up. And we've got to help seniors understand the choices and make wise ones. And it's going to be a Herculean effort. If you want to preserve a system that rewards innovation and encourages investment and discovery of new drugs and keeps choice available, this system has to work.
 An extended version of this interview is online: nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Billy Tauzin believes the pharmaceutical industry needs help to repair its image. (Photo by Dennis Brack for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CANCER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (78%); ONCOLOGY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RADIOLOGY (71%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (71%); MEDICARE (56%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (91%) Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America

Billy Tauzin; Stephanie Saul

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



574 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: SPLINTERED, BUT UNBOWED

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 28 

 BODY:
Even as he was leading the revolt this week that has divided the labor movement into warring camps, Andrew L. Stern was wasting no time in trying to demonstrate that unions are capable of a resurgence.
 Mr. Stern's union, the Service Employees International Union, kicked off an effort to unionize 8,000 janitors in Houston, even though the state of Texas is particularly hostile to organized labor. In one of the most ambitious organizing drives in the South, the service employees have set their sights initially on the Houston operations of ABM, the nation's largest cleaning contractor.
If the service employees can unionize the biggest cleaning company in the city, Mr. Stern argues, other companies will quickly follow. 
 For all their ferocious infighting, labor's chieftains agree on one thing: labor can rebound in the new economy because there still are plenty of opportunities for old-fashioned organizing.
 Millions of workers, they say, are ripe for labor's message because of stagnating wages for ordinary workers, declining benefits, growing insecurity on the job, and a sense that the haves are leaving the have-nots further behind. Moreover, workers in the low-wage service sector are disproportionately women, immigrants and members of minority groups that have all been traditionally more open to unionization. 
 But there are cross-cutting trends that undermine labor's hopes. Workers in industries that face global competition -- from manufacturers to high-tech service companies -- fear that if they unionize, that may just hasten their companies' decision to ship their jobs overseas.
 And as the House's narrow vote in favor of the Central American Free Trade Agreement showed, even though labor retains clout among Democrats, it cannot overcome a determined drive by the White House and a Republican Party that is not inclined to do unions any favors.
 For all the obstacles, said Mr. Stern, whose union is the fastest-growing in the nation -- having jumped to 1.8 million members from 1.1 million a decade ago -- ''there are a series of things that make a revival possible.''
 ''First is the environment that Alan Greenspan talked about recently -- the growing disparity between the wealthy and other Americans,'' Mr. Stern added in a telephone interview from his office in Washington. ''A second factor is the category of jobs that are going to remain in this country, that can't be sent overseas: trucking, janitorial, hospitals, supermarkets. A lot of these workers aren't paid well, and they need a voice at work.''
 In Houston, the service employees union certainly appear to have a strong selling point: ABM's janitors in Houston earn $5.25 an hour and have no health benefits, while its unionized janitors in Chicago, San Francisco and New York earn $15 or more an hour and have health benefits.
 It is a classic, sophisticated service employees' campaign: a two-week strike, full-page newspaper ads, the city's Roman Catholic archbishop and several members of Congress decrying the janitors' wages and lack of benefits. Not only that, the union has staged support strikes by ABM workers from California to Connecticut.
 But despite such tactics, the labor movement's vital signs have grown weaker by the decade. Half a century ago, the union movement was a behemoth, representing 35 percent of private-sector workers. Now it represents less than 8 percent.
 But Mr. Stern -- who is widely viewed as the man who will spearhead a resurgence in labor, if there is going to be one -- prefers to focus on another, more encouraging statistic: 52 percent of nonunion, nonsupervisory workers say, according to polls, that they would vote to join a union today if they could. 
 Counterintuitive though it may be, Mr. Stern says the growing size of American corporations is another factor that may help labor.
 ''Employers are larger, and in the end that may be an advantage,'' he said. ''When we organize, it's easier to organize one huge retailer like Wal-Mart or Home Depot than 100 smaller companies that are totally disaggregated.'' 
 Reversing labor's decline is a tall order. To increase the percentage of the work force that is unionized would require unions to recruit one million new members a year, more than twice the current rate of recruitment. Meanwhile, companies have grown far more sophisticated, and aggressive, in beating back unionization attempts. 
 Unions also face huge hurdles getting their message through to millions of young workers and high-tech workers, who tend to be independent-minded and often entrepreneurial and look solely to their own drive and talents, rather than unions, to help them climb the economic ladder.
 ''Unions have to find a new message,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor, employee benefits and immigration at the United States Chamber of Commerce in Washington. ''Stern keeps putting more troops on the ground to organize workers, but it's more troops with the same message.''
 On Monday, the service employees and the Teamsters quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O., saying it has done to little to reverse labor's slide. [On Friday, the United Food and Commercial Workers also quit.] A fourth union, Unite Here, which represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers, also plans to quit.
 Those unions are cooperating with three other unions -- the laborers, farm workers and carpenters -- to develop ambitious, multi-union organizing drives at Cintas, the laundry company, as well as at FedEx and Wal-Mart. 
 Richard Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell University, says the most likely way for the labor movement to grow again is to focus on low-end service-sector workers.
 ''There's an opportunity for unions to build some kind of momentum by focusing on workers who are the most oppressed,'' he said. Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at the University of California at Berkeley, added, ''They need a message that resonates not that you have it bad, but that we can help make your life better.''
 In the Houston campaign, the service employees union, which spends more than half its budget on organizing, is using several new strategies. For one thing it is trying to organize 8,000 janitors at once, rather than 20 at a time in individual buildings. The union is also using its pension power and political connections, getting public pension funds in California and New York to pressure Houston building owners to urge their cleaning contractors to pay better.
 ''Sometimes this can be done with the power of persuasion,'' Mr. Stern said. ''Sometimes it takes the persuasion of power.''
 Union leaders agree that for the labor movement to revive, the turnaround must come in the private sector. Among government employees, unionization is expected to remain relatively easy even though the governors of Indiana and Missouri recently stripped state workers of the right to unionize. Because states and cities rarely go to the mat in fighting unions, 36 percent of the nation's public employees are unionized.
 Factory workers were once the heart of the labor movement, but employment in many former labor strongholds -- steel, rubber and autos-- has plunged because of automation and imports. 
 ''Our organizing efforts are not able to keep up with the loss of manufacturing jobs,'' said R. Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the International Association of Machinists. Mr. Buffenbarger said his union organized 5,000 workers a year, while losing 15,000 a year to factory closings and downsizings.
 The United Auto Workers has recently organized several auto parts plants, including a 220-worker Dana auto parts plant in Virginia and a 1,200-worker Thomas Built bus plant in North Carolina. But noneof those successes have proved big enough to reverse the union's slide.
 ''The U.A.W.'s membership seems preordained to decline unless they make a breakthrough at the transplants,'' Professor Hurd said. ''That is hard because the transplants provide union wages and benefits. They're in regions not friendly to unions and use Japanese culture that gives workers a modicum of voice and feelings of belonging. They're very hard to crack.''
 Professional and technical workers may be even tougher to organize. Despite years of trying, unions have failed to crack even one Silicon Valley company.
 ''Unions have to adapt to the changing economy in order to succeed,'' Professor Hurd said. ''A new model needs to be developed that provides these workers with an opportunity to take their benefits with them and provides them with a voice at work that may be outside of collective bargaining.''
 One such model may be the Communication Workers of America, whose executive vice president, Larry Cohen, said his union is succeeding with a number of innovative approaches. At I.B.M., for example, 3,000 employees have joined a union-sponsored group, Alliance at I.B.M., that provides an advocacy forum for workers on pensions, career and job security.
 The communications' workers, after persuading Cingular Wireless not to oppose unionization efforts, has organized 22,000 Cingular workers. And while the union expects to add new AT&T members now that Cingular has acquired AT&T Wireless, it is making little progress with Verizon Wireless, which is vigorously fighting unionization.
 ''When you take away the terror,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''workers are eager to sign up.''
 But not many unions are organizing so aggressively. A decade ago, John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, urged unions to spend at least 30 percent of their budget on organizing. Stewart Acuff, the federation's organizing director, said that only five of the federation's 54 unions had met that goal.
 ''If we're going to turn this around,'' Mr. Acuff said, ''it's going to take more than a handful of unions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Stern, right, president of the Service Employees International Union, says millions of workers would like to unionize. (Photograph, right, by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press
illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Members of the Service Employees International Union rallied Thursday in Houston at the end of a strike against a cleaning company. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has watched his labor group steadily shrink. (Photo by Frank Polich/Bloomberg News)(pg. C13)Chart: ''Waning Membership''Percent of U.S. workers who were union members from 1948 to 2004.In 1948, membership was at 31.8% . . .. . . while in 2004, it decreased to 12.5%Graph tracks membership since the 1950's.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics
Leo Troy, author of Union Sourcebook, 1975)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Union Work Force''Percent of each U.S. sector or industry that was represented by a union in 1975 and 2004.Though overall membership has declined, the number of unionized government employees has risen.1975: 25%2004: 36Membership in the private sector, however, has decreased.1975: 21.52004: 8The industries below have had sharp declines.CONSTRUCTION1975: 352004: 16MANUFACTURING1975: 362004: 13TRANSPORTATION1975: 472004: 27(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Leo Troy, author of Union Sourcebook, 1975)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); REFUGEES (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Women; Immigration and Refugees; Minorities (US); Labor

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); AFL-CIO (59%) Service Employees International Union

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%) Steven Greenhouse; Andrew Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



575 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS, WEEKLY CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: 2 of 3 Main Gauges Rise for a Fifth Consecutive Week

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Despite falling yesterday, two of the three main stock gauges rose for the fifth consecutive week. But the Dow Jones industrial average wound up down slightly for the week, ending a four-week run. And the overall stock rally over the last five weeks appears a little sluggish in light of surprisingly positive economic reports recently and double-digit profits growth for the second quarter.
 The manufacturing sector seems to have bounced back and inflation is still relatively contained. Economic growth in the second quarter, which was reported yesterday at an annual rate of 3.4 percent, pretty much met forecasts and some economists are now projecting growth in the 5 percent range for the current quarter. 
And based on the profit reports from 370 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, earnings growth for the second quarter, compared with the quarter a year ago, is now forecast to be 11.1 percent, according to Thomson Financial. If that is the final number, the second quarter would be the eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth.
 But over the last five weeks, the S.&P. 500-stock index was up only 3.6 percent, which may seem a little paltry because neither the good economic news nor the good earnings news was expected. In just the one week ended May 20, the S.&P. 500 climbed 3.1 percent. For the week, the S.&P. 500 was almost unchanged, rising a tiny 0.04 percent.
 The Nasdaq composite index did a little better, rising 0.2 percent for the week and 6.4 percent over the last five weeks. From its recent low on April 28, the Nasdaq is now up 14.7 percent.
 But the Dow slipped 0.1 percent for the week and is up just 3.3 percent in the last five weeks.
 ''If you talk to the professional investor, they are not necessarily bearish, but they are still cautious,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston. ''They have recently been burned.''
 Mr. Rhodes also said that despite the better-than-expected earnings for the second quarter, ''you are probably on the backside of the profits cycle,'' which means earnings growth will be slowing.
 While the current 11.1 percent growth rate for the second quarter is better than expected, it would be well below the 21.8 percent average for the previous seven quarters. And the projected growth rates for the third and fourth quarters, while higher than 11.1 percent, are also below the seven-quarter average.
 Another drag on investor sentiment may be the clear signal Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, sent in his recent testimony before Congress: the Fed will be continuing with its rate increases in the months ahead.
 There are four more meetings of Fed policy makers before the end of the year, and many analysts expect three or four more quarter-point rate increases. If there are four, the central bank's benchmark short-term interest rate would be at 4.25 percent.
 That some economists are projecting stronger growth in the months ahead means that there is less of a chance for a pause by Fed policy makers. This fear was reflected in the trading of federal funds futures yesterday, with the yield on the December contract jumping to 4.035 percent. The jump, from 3.975 percent a week ago, means that a rising number of investors are betting there will be four more quarter-point rate increases this year.
 Yields also rose in the Treasury market after projections of stronger growth ahead. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 4.28 percent, from 4.19 percent Thursday and 4.22 percent a week ago. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 22/32, to 98 25/32.
 The yield on the Treasury's two-year note, which is sensitive to expectations of Fed tightening, rose to 4.01 percent, the first time it has been above 4 percent in four years. 
 As for the sell-off in the stock market yesterday, it did not help that the price of crude oil closed over $60 a barrel for the first time in 12 trading days. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price for crude oil for September delivery rose 63 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $60.57 a barrel.
 In relatively light trading, the S.&P. 500 fell 9.54 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,234.18 while the Nasdaq dropped 13.61 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,184.83. The Dow fell 64.64 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,640.91. The Dow is still down 1.3 percent for the year, while the S.&P. 500 is up 1.84 percent and the Nasdaq 0.4 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''S. & P. 500 Quarterly Earnings Growth''Graph tracks year-over-year change from 2000 through estimated 2005.(Source by Thomson First Call)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



576 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: The Playground M.B.A.

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
FORGET about obtaining a master's degree in business administration, reading scholarly management tomes and putting in long days at the office. 
 Maybe all you really need to succeed as a manager is to be a parent.
That is one conclusion to draw after reading an interview Parenting did this month with Chris Komisarjevsky, co-author of ''Peanut Butter and Jelly Management'' (and the father of nine).
 In the interview with Pat Carolan, Mr. Komisarjevsky says that everything learned by raising children can be applied to managing people. Whether you are talking about the office or what takes place at home, the following ideas are equally effective: make the rules clear, don't overreact to mistakes, know when to let go and stay calm when something goes wrong. 
 It also doesn't matter if you are comparing children or co-workers. The same rule applies, according to Mr. Komisarjevsky: don't. ''Just as you value your kids' individuality, respect the different backgrounds and skills of those in your workplace,'' he says. ''The more you appreciate individual strengths, the more you can take advantage of them.''
 Who knew that staying up all night with a teething baby was actually preparing you to climb the corporate ladder?
 DAUGHTERS RULE -- In recent years, carmakers have worked hard to urge their dealerships -- the last bastion of the retail frat house -- to do a better job serving female customers.
 Change has been incremental at best.
 Things could improve drastically soon, however, Working Mother reports in its July-August issue. One significant reason for the potential metamorphosis? More women -- invariably the daughters of the current owners -- are moving into the top spots at dealerships.
 Only 3 percent of the 20,000 automobile dealerships were owned by women in 1990. That number is 7 percent today, as an increasing number of fathers turn over the keys to their daughters.
 Says Teri Catterson Kraft, 40, who ''worked her way up to become president'' of her father's dealership in Indianapolis: ''Our goal is to establish relationships with the customers -- not just push a car on them.''
 BOOMERANG -- It isn't news that more and more young adults are returning home to live with their parents. Similarly, given today's high cost of living and the low pay of some entry-level jobs, it isn't a shock to hear that some parents are helping their children in other ways.
 But what may stun you is just how extensive that parental support is. More than one in three children ages 18 to 34 receive financial aid from their parents, according to an article in this month's More magazine, a publication aimed at women over 40. The average amount of that support is $38,000 a year.
 ''The traditional cutoff for parental support -- 18 to 21 -- is as outdated as a vinyl LP,'' writes Mary Pleshette Willis, who adds that in large part parents have themselves to blame for their depleted bank accounts. In addition to wanting to ''protect'' their children for as long as possible, they are also reluctant to let go.
 The number of adult children living at home has been steadily increasing -- it climbed another 5 percent in the last 10 years -- and the children seem progressively less eager to go off on their own.
 The magazine says the average student goes to college today on the five-year plan, taking 25 percent longer than the parents did to graduate.
 FINAL TAKE -- Between keeping your face impassive when being chewed out by the boss and improvising when asked a question you were totally unprepared for, it often feels that you would have been better off taking drama classes instead of Economics 101. Alan Altschuler understands. 
 Until July 1, Mr. Altschuler, 58, was chief financial officer of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. Now, as Institutional Investor reports, he is Alan Altschuler, actor. 
 He has just completed the independent film ''Off-Hour.'' He may not have been typecast, but many on Wall Street will identify with his role: He plays a dying (Norse) god. PAUL B. BROWN


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENTING (91%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (86%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); COST OF LIVING (60%); CHARITIES (60%); FOUNDATIONS (59%) Executives and Management; Children and Youth; Automobiles; Women; Salesmen and Saleswomen; Personal Finances; Executives and Management; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: PEANUT BUTTER & JELLY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Parenting (Magazine); Working Mother (Magazine); More (Magazine) ; Institutional Investor (Magazine); Duke, Doris, Charitable Foundation

PERSON: Paul B Brown; Christopher P A Komisarjevsky; Alan Altschuler

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%) INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



577 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: EXECUTIVE PURSUITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: I'm Here to See a Man About a Suit

BYLINE: By Harry Hurt III

 BODY:
I WENT looking for a custom suit like some wiseacre detective named Jake in a film noir, only to wind up in Chinatown on the hottest day of the summer so far. The sidewalks were packed tighter than subway cars at rush hour; the air smelled like pork fried rust. Vendors were hawking $5 soap bubble guns, and the red and gold Chinese characters plastered on the banks, the Buddhist temple, the fish market and the retail stores looked like they were about to melt into candle wax.
 I stumbled down the pavement, toting a tall kitchen garbage bag that contained a threadbare Armani suit my wife had bought me off the rack at Bergdorf's more than a decade ago. Every few feet, I'd get stuck behind this little old lady, who'd poke me in the kisser with the tips of her parasol and then hollered at me in a voice that sounded like a tunnel full of wind chimes.
I was determined to track down the proprietor of an outfit called the International Tailor Company. I had never laid eyes on the gentleman before, I didn't even know his proper name. All I knew was my wife called him ''Tom the Tailor,'' and swore he could make a perfect copy of any type garment, including my Armani suit, for a fraction of the price most uptown tailors demand for a custom job. 
 Maybe you can give me a better reason to go to Chinatown at high noon during a heat wave? If so, I'll bet you haven't priced suits lately. Department store designer suits start around $1,200, and soar toward $3,500 for the fancier labels. Custom suits start around $4,400 at Savile Row-style tailor shops like Leonard Logsdail or Bruce Cameron Clark. Of course, if you really want to shoot the moon, Alan Katzman of Alan Couture can put you in a vicuna and silk custom suit softer than cotton candy for a hefty $30,000.
 And yet, the question is -- why would anybody even want a suit in this postformal age of dress-down chic and casual Fridays? As G. Bruce Boyer, a respected sartorial scribe and author of ''Fred Astaire Style'' (Assouline, 2005), pointed out in an interview, ''Suits reached their high point around 1920, and have been going down in popularity ever since.'' 
 But then again, as Mr. Boyer hastened to add, with the burst of the dot-com bubble, custom suits are enjoying a renaissance among both dyed-in-the wool corporate types and newly minted hip-hop stars who want to dress like grown-ups instead of teenage computer geeks. 
 ''I think guys want individuality in their clothes because they can get it in all other areas of their lives simply by shopping on the Internet,'' Mr. Boyer said. ''They want custom suits in part because they don't have to buy that kind of tailored clothing for the office anymore.''
 By definition, few things in life can be more individual than a custom suit. Together with your tailor, you pick everything from the fabric to the width of the lapels. You can pad your shoulders, taper your middle and do whatever else you desire to accommodate your unique physique. The man in the mirror is no longer just another bare naked human, but a knight in white satin linings dressed for success as conqueror of the universe!
 Apart from price, there's only one endemic problem with custom suits -- the wait. Even allowing for alterations, a department store suit is usually on your back within a week. Custom suits are typically promised in a minimum of six weeks, but often delivered on or around the six-month mark, Mr. Boyer said. ''Guys are used to getting instant gratification,'' he said.
 As my wife can attest, I fit that pattern. On the day we had marched into Bergdorf's, I had tried on and taken the first double-breasted blue Armani size 44 long suit the salesman pulled off the rack. My wife had shrieked in dismay, evidently feeling that I had not spent sufficient time examining other blue double-breasted Armani suits in size 44 long. ''Women go shopping,'' I had told her with macho pride. ''Men go buying.''
 A decade later, I began to think I might be better off settling for department store threads again. International Tailor had recently moved to a new location at 98 Mott Street. But save for the suite numbers and a sign for ''Kenny's Driving School,'' the building directory was almost entirely in Chinese. 
 I nodded at two men standing out front. I tugged on the sleeves and the breast pockets of my shirt, made a scissors clipping gesture with my fingers, and then stood at attention as if in front of a fitting room mirror, saying over and over again, ''Clothes, suit, tailor.'' The men shook their heads and answered in Chinese that probably translated into something like, ''This guy must be looking for a sex change operation or a prostitute. Let's pretend we don't understand him and maybe he'll go away.''
 I ventured up the stairs of the building, and repeated my pleading pantomimes in vain at a beauty shop, an acupuncturist and an herbalist reeking with pungent odors. The herbalist closed the door and reached for the phone like he was going to call the police or maybe some local protection gang. 
 I fled for the third floor, and breathed a sigh of joy luck relief at a sign in English that read ''International Tailor Co.'' I entered a tiny cubicle crammed with clothes racks and bolts of cloth. A Chinese woman who turned out to be the proprietor's wife sat at a sewing machine in front of a bulletin board stapled with a photo of two handsome young male models in fancy suits standing beside a Mercedes convertible. A short, lean Chinese man in his early 60's entered on my heels.
 ''Tom the Tailor!'' I cried out.
 ''No, no, Tim!'' he exclaimed ''Tim Yan! Tim the Tailor!''
 My wife surely would have shrieked at the speed with which Mr. Yan and I attended to business. He asked me what kind of fabric I wanted. I pointed to one of the male models in the bulletin board photo, who was wearing a tan summer suit. Mr. Yan pulled out a swatch book and flipped to a tan fabric sample labeled ''100 percent worsted wool, Made in Italy.''
 I asked Mr. Yan if he could cut and sew the fabric right there on the premises. He nodded emphatically, then pointed to a framed certificate he had earned from a Hong Kong tailoring organization before coming to New York in the early 1970's. ''Nobody study tailor no more,'' he lamented.
 I tried on the Armani suit I wanted Mr. Yan to copy. He made a few quick measurements and suggested some modifications to the pocket flaps and the buttonholes. 
 ''$620,'' Mr. Yan informed me.
 That seemed like a bargain at twice the price. I quickly wrote out a deposit check for $300. 
 ''I have ready in three weeks,'' Mr. Yan said, frowning at the check. ''Next time you come, you bring cash.''
 I felt like asking why he wanted cash, wondering if maybe he didn't trust a guy like me. But then I figured it was none of my business either way. Besides, I was already imagining that I'd look as cool and crisp, if not as young and handsome, as the male model in the photo when I got my new $620 custom tailored double-breasted tan suit three weeks later. . 
 So I just nodded my head at Mr. Yan, aka ''Tim the Tailor,'' and slogged back out into the sweltering heat, muttering, ''Forget it, Jake -- it's Chinatown.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the International Tailor Company, Tim Yan will make you a suit. But he would prefer that you not make him out a check. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); READY TO WEAR (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (75%); WEATHER (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); RELIGION (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); WRITERS (60%) Apparel; Suits (Apparel); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: International Tailor Co

PERSON: Tim Yan; Harry III Hurt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



578 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your July 23 editorial ''Houses Divided on Warming'' is correct in castigating Representative Joe Barton's treatment of scientists and their science. Most geographers and other earth scientists accept the overwhelming evidence that Earth's atmosphere and oceans are warming up. Most also accept the evidence that humans are adding to that warming, primarily through the burning of fossil fuels.
Less clear, however, is any consensus about either what we should or even could do about it and what the costs of any interference might be compared with the benefits. Many economists argue, correctly I think, that it is not rational to make investments with today's dollars if the benefits of those investments will not accrue for a century or more down the road. 
 Global warming is likely to continue until humans are forced into a transition from fossil fuels to other energy sources by rising prices for the former and declining prices for the latter. The debate should focus less on global warming and more on the energy transition that must come and ways to adapt to warmer climates in the interim.

Gary L. Peters
Paso Robles, Calif., July 23, 2005

The writer is a professor of geography at California State University, Chico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Weather; Research; Global Warming

PERSON: JOE BARTON (90%) Gary L (Prof) Peters; Joe (Rep) Barton

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



579 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: From Intel To Health Care And Beyond

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
IN case you missed it, Andrew S. Grove has an article in this week's issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association. In his 68 years, Mr. Grove has written six books, including a management classic, ''Only the Paranoid Survive''; a beautifully rendered memoir, ''Swimming Across''; and a new book, published last month, composed of case studies that he uses in the class he teaches with Robert A. Burgelman, a Stanford University professor, entitled ''Strategic Dynamics: Concepts and Cases.'' But it's not every day that he makes an appearance in an eminent medical journal like JAMA.
 The article, ''Efficiency in the Health Care Industries,'' was labeled commentary, but it was more akin to a jeremiad. Mr. Grove took dead aim at the lack of efficiency in health care -- the amount of time it takes a research lab to turn an idea into a working drug, for instance; and the extent to which medicine lags behind other industries in using technology to store and retrieve data, to the detriment of doctors and patients. He compared it unfavorably to an industry he knows rather intimately, microchips, which has turned efficiency into an art, thanks in no small part to Mr. Grove. 
The article signaled that Mr. Grove's obsession with the problems in the health care industry, problems he first explored in a 1996 Fortune magazine article about his battle with prostate cancer, has not waned. It signaled something else as well: Mr. Grove has been keeping plenty busy in retirement.
 Did you know that Mr. Grove, one of Silicon Valley's most iconic and influential figures, has retired from Intel? Well, O.K., retirement may be a bit strong: he still has a desk at Intel, where he describes his current role as ''internal agitator.'' (His official title is senior adviser to executive management.) But on May 18, at Intel's annual meeting, Mr. Grove resigned as chairman of the board. For the first time since 1979, when he was named its president, Intel's fortunes are not Mr. Grove's responsibility. Although the meeting was, in part, a public retirement party for Mr. Grove, the news garnered surprisingly little attention in the East Coast business media.
 ONE of the great joys of being a business journalist over the last quarter century has been the chance to listen to Andy Grove. As president, chief executive and finally chairman of Intel, he would periodically make the rounds of the business magazines and the business sections of the big newspapers, where he would sit in a conference room and take questions from the reporters and editors. Yes, of course, he gave us the Intel spin. But unlike most C.E.O.'s, programmed like robots to stay on message, Mr. Grove was willing to share his thoughts on all manner of things. 
 With his wide-ranging intellect and his engagement with the world, he broadened our understanding of technology, strategy, the fall of communism (he escaped from communist Hungary at the age of 20), and dozens of other topics.
 I last sat in on one of his jam sessions maybe three years ago, and I've missed them. So a few weeks ago, I decided to bring the mountain to Mohammed. I went to visit him in Silicon Valley, to see what he was up to (audio excerpts of my interview with Mr. Grove are at nytimes.com/business/columns). 
 It turns out that he's up to quite a bit. ''My mind is spinning as fast as it did then,'' he said, comparing his new life to his old in his mellifluous Hungarian accent. ''But I'm not in meetings all day. I have the ability to pick and choose what I do, which I never had in my life. The penalty is that I deal with issues that are mammoth.''
 We met at the office of his foundation, which, among other things, is financing stem cell research (''We are helping to keep U.S. stem cell programs limping along,'' he said), and trying to develop programs that will help people who are not college-bound acquire vocational skills to allow them to earn a decent living. 
 He talked about his quest to find what he called ''the Rosetta code'' for the health care industry. By that he means the development of software ''that takes incompatible systems and translates them into each other, so that one system can automatically read the other.'' He thinks there are few things more important for patients than to have any doctor, anywhere, be able to access their medical records, but because the industry is so fragmented, with so many records still in paper form, that is currently impossible.
 At Intel, most of his time is spent with a new health care group, where he pushes and prods and argues with its members as they try to figure out how to bring this laggard industry into the technological age -- and with any luck, make some money for Intel in the process.
 We talked a bit about the central ideas in his new book, which examines what happens when a particular business environment suddenly changes and industries collide, as when, for instance, digital technology turned the music industry upside down. Mr. Grove, not surprisingly, had mainly contempt for the music industry's early efforts to keep the digital wave from coming to shore. 
 ''If the new technology is compelling enough,'' he said, ''it will win out. When the railroads came, Wells Fargo was in trouble. When the printing press came along, the monks didn't stay around very long.'' Music, telephony, media: they've all faced the same disruptions, and in Mr. Grove's view they are all going to have to adapt -- or else.
 At the annual meeting last May, he laughingly described the line ''Technology will always win'' as ''Grove's Law.''
 Then he moved to the subject of his latest obsession: globalization. Will it surprise you to know that this refugee from Hungary, whose company derives 70 percent of its revenue from places other than the United States, is a bear on the potential consequences of globalization on this country? He is.
 ''I don't think there is a good outcome,'' he said. ''I looked up a quote for you. 'If you don't believe that [globalization] changes the average wages in America, you believe in the tooth fairy.' Do you know who said that? Paul Samuelson, age 90.''
 Although mainstream economic thought holds that America's history of creativity and entrepreneurialism will allow it to adapt to the rise of such emerging economies as India and China, Mr. Grove thinks that is so much wishful thinking. In his view, globalization will not only finish off what's left of American manufacturing, but will turn so-called knowledge workers, which was supposed to be America's competitive advantage, into just another global commodity.
 ''There is an increasing trend towards lathroscopic surgery being done with robots,'' he said by way of example. ''Once you are doing it with robotics, why do you have to be there?'' The procedure might just as well be done from India. Or China.
 What particularly bugs Mr. Grove is that he can't see a way that this country can find the equivalent of a disruptive technology that will allow it to retain is current place atop the economic heap. He's always been someone who liked to generate big, gnarly solutions that may take years to work through, and though it may seem a tad grandiose on his part to think that he should be able to devise a way to solve America's globalization problem, it is also part of what makes him such an appealing character. 
 ''I think Intel and me and the JAMA article can move health care a few pebbles forward,'' he said. ''This last one, I will be happy just to have some people talking about it, and legitimize it. There are no clear answers.'' 
 Toward the end of the interview I asked him whether he liked his new life. ''I love it,'' he said. ''I was very ready for it. I have liked all phases of my career. I liked the technological side. I liked management. I liked discovering strategy.'' He likes being able to read history now, something he rarely had time for in his previous life. He likes not having to worry about every minute twist and turn in the technology industry, and how it might effect Intel.
 Did that last annual meeting have any special meaning? I wondered. ''Nothing emotional happened that day,'' he replied. But, he added, he has been having dreams lately about Intel. ''It is as if I'm reliving an event that happened when I was operations manager 25 years ago. It is not speeches, not limelight, just factory visits and arguments, which didn't really happen. I didn't used to have these dreams. So I have a lot of feelings.
 ''I see a lot of Intel retirees,'' he added. ''They keep company with each other. There is some nostalgia. I don't know if it is for the Intel of those days, or my younger self. 
 ''But not on May 18,'' he said. ''That was just a nice event.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Joseph Nocera column in Business Day on July 30, about the work of Andrew S. Grove after his retirement from Intel, misspelled the medical term for a procedure that Mr. Grove said could be performed by robots. It is laparoscopic surgery, not lathroscopic.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael S. Wertz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CASE STUDIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); WRITERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); TRENDS (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (69%); PROSTATE DISEASE (69%); CANCER (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (87%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%) Intel Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (87%)

PERSON: Andrew S Grove; Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



580 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 675 words

PERSON: Arthur Zankel

HEADLINE: Arthur Zankel, Concert-Hall Benefactor, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Arthur Zankel, a financier who oversaw the Carnegie Hall endowment fund and made a $10 million donation that led to the construction of a new concert space there named for him, died in a fall from his Upper East Side apartment building on Thursday. He was 73.
 Mr. Zankel, who had been suffering from depression, jumped from the ninth floor of the building, on Fifth Avenue, said Sanford I. Weill, a close friend and the chairman of Carnegie Hall and Citigroup. ''He had extended medical treatment and tried his best, and the illness won out,'' Mr. Weill said. 
An astute numbers cruncher, Mr. Zankel made his fortune as an investment manager. He was an early investor in Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett's holding company, and served on Citigroup's board. Mr. Weill called him not only a friend of nearly 50 years but also the ''most valued adviser'' of his career. 
 ''He helped me think through how I might structure, and where I should be interested, basically in everything I did or didn't do,'' Mr. Weill said. ''He could see through situations. He could help one reach a conclusion rapidly that was filled with common sense.''
 The name Zankel (pronounced zan-KELL) might have remained in the corporate shadows if not for Mr. Zankel's lead gift to build what is now the Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall, which opened in September 2003. With a capacity of about 600, Zankel Hall is one of three spaces at Carnegie and is dedicated to eclectic and educational events.
 Mr. Weill said he suggested that Mr. Zankel make a gift when Carnegie officials were planning to build the hall in the late 1990's. ''He said, 'Why don't we do it together?''' Mr. Weill said. ''Basically, I said, 'This would be a great thing for you. I have enough, you should do it.' We had the whole thing done in no more than a week or 10 days.'' (Carnegie's other small concert space is called Weill Recital Hall.)
 Carnegie Hall said it raised $106 million, exceeding Zankel Hall's eventual cost of $72 million, with the remainder returned to the general endowment fund. 
 The hall, whose seating and stage can be reconfigured, presents world music, jazz, pop and new-music concerts, as well as traditional recitals and chamber music. It immediately assumed an important place on the New York cultural scene.
 ''I think he took enormous delight in what the hall meant,'' said Ara Guzelimian, Carnegie Hall's artistic adviser. ''Arthur had an incredibly mischievous sense of humor, and he loved to mix things up.'' He often attended Zankel Hall events and bought blocks of tickets for his children and their friends, Carnegie officials said.
 Arthur Zankel was born on Feb. 16, 1932, in New York City. He earned an undergraduate degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
 After graduation, he joined Hallgarten & Company. In 1965 he moved to First Manhattan Company, an investment management company, where he was co-managing partner from 1979 to 1997 and senior partner for the next two years. In 2000, he founded High Rise Capital Management, where he was the co-managing partner. The firm manages partnerships that invest in real estate investment trusts. 
 He served on Citigroup's board until 2004, when he reached the mandatory retirement age. 
 Mr. Zankel joined Carnegie's board in 1992, at Mr. Weill's urging, and was vice chairman at the time of his death. He took music appreciation classes to understand the field better. From 1996 to 2002, he managed Carnegie Hall's endowment fund. The fund grew nearly sevenfold, to $124 million -- largely through increased giving, but also because of strong performance, Mr. Weill said.
 Mr. Zankel was also a trustee of Teachers College at Columbia University. He underwrote a tutoring program, TC Reading Buddies, for Harlem youngsters, staffed by 40 Teachers College students. 
 He is survived by his wife, Judy; four sons from a previous marriage, Kenneth, James, R. Thomas and Mark; and two grandchildren. Mr. Zankel also had homes in Armonk, N.Y., and on Cape Cod.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur Zankel with his wife, Judy, in the hall that bears their name. (Photo by Chris Lee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); DEPRESSION (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

SANDY WEILL (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%) Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



581 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: The Roberts nomination raises the issue of the role of religious faith in public and professional life.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
Scarcely had Judge John G. Roberts been chosen for the Supreme Court than religion reared its lovely head. And just as swiftly, opponents and supporters of the selection traded accusations over who was responsible. 
 Were opponents playing with religious prejudice and trying to erect an unconstitutional religious test for public office? Were supporters smearing the opposition and trying to block legitimate lines of inquiry about Judge Roberts's views by charging that these amounted to anti-Catholic or anti-religious hostility?
From the narrow viewpoint of this column, all this attention to religion could be welcomed as simply that much more grist for the mill. The partisan maneuvering is not really that hard to detect and discount. 
 But these exchanges threaten to convey a subtler message, not partisan at all but at least as questionable. The message has little to do with Judge Roberts in particular but much about the way Americans assume that serious religious commitments can be related to professional or public life in general. 
 The message comes from the judge's friends as much as from his critics, from people trying to defuse the issue of religion in his candidacy as much as from those trying to raise it. 
 Consider what are already becoming routine descriptions -- that Judge Roberts and his wife, Jane Sullivan Roberts, are devout Catholics but don't wear their faith on their sleeves; that Judge Roberts hews to his religion but keeps it separate from his legal judgments; that the couple's faith, as one priest who knows them put it, ''would affect their personal lives, but they are very professional in their work.'' 
 Those offering such descriptions probably don't intend the impression that they leave, which is of a warm but conventionally contained religious faith. No doubt this is partly the effect of journalism's need to pick a clear phrase or two out of a complex explanation. But the lingering impression is ultimately shaped by the poverty of the culture's categories for understanding how a devout religious faith can be related to professional or public responsibilities. 
 That impoverished understanding breaks down into two dichotomous possibilities: 
 One possibility assumes that a serious religious commitment entails fairly direct guidance for making professional or public choices as well as personal ones. Some believers testify to finding that kind of guidance in the verses of a sacred text, the opinions of religious authorities or introspective searching into their own hearts.
 The other possibility restricts serious devotion to the strictly personal. Faith, often embodied in specific ritual observances, provides a sense of meaning, discipline, inspiration and solace. Religion inculcates honesty, care and loyalty in family and other personal relationships; but apart from elementary injunctions to decency and bars to lying and cheating, other activities are governed by the separate codes and demands of the workplace, whether that is a corporate law firm, a science laboratory, the United States Senate or the Supreme Court. 
 Many conservatives, especially religious ones, applaud the first way of relating religious commitment to professional and public life as authentic; they scorn the second way as half-hearted and inconsistent, a kind of amputated faith. They have a point. But is the first way, which many liberals, both secular and religious, fear as potentially arbitrary and intolerant, the only alternative? 
 This dichotomy between the personal and the public comes naturally to a Western culture that for half a millennium has been gradually freeing areas like law, science, medicine, politics and economics from direct oversight by religion. What gets overlooked is that there are good religious reasons for welcoming much of the autonomy that these areas of human activities have eked out. 
 Thus the devoutly religious judge who works within a secular framework of constitutional interpretation, the scientific researcher who rules out divine interventions in her empirical search for causes or the entrepreneur who operates on the basis of market dynamics may be doing so not because they have set their religious faith aside, or compartmentalized it into their personal and family lives, but precisely because their faith informs them that these may be the best ways of putting their particular talents at the service of God and their neighbors. 
 Of course, a great many pious people leave their religion behind when they head for their jobs, but a great many others have not only chosen those jobs but also diligently abide by the secular standards of those occupations out of religious motives. 
 Ultimately, it is true that for the serious believer no secular system can escape completely from religious evaluation and judgment. A religiously faithful judge working within a secular constitutional order that brings Hitler to power may have to reconsider his role. A point may come when the scientist questions a whole line of research. The entrepreneur is likely to confront situations where the laws of supply and demand seem to clash with the laws of God. 
 The fact that this respect for the autonomy of secular activities can never be absolute lies behind the question that Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, reportedly asked Judge Roberts and that Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, reluctantly asked him as well, perhaps in a different form. 
 Could the judge conceive of circumstances in which his faith would conflict with his ability to make decisions on the basis of civil law and, if so, what would he do? It is not clear how Judge Roberts answered, nor is it clear whether this question belongs in a confirmation process at all, certainly if it is asked only of nominees of one particular faith. 
 But it is a question that believers need to reflect on, nonetheless. One of the classic cases for the autonomy of political life from religion, from the ''ethic of the Gospel'' or ''the ethic of absolute ends,'' is found in Max Weber's 1918 lecture, ''Politics as a Vocation.'' But even there, quoting Luther, Weber praises the person who comes to an ethical turning point where pragmatic calculations no longer apply, and can only say, ''Here I stand; I can do no other.'' 
 ''Every one of us who is not spiritually dead,'' Weber declared, ''must realize the possibility of finding himself at some time in that position.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LAWYERS (75%); INJUNCTIONS (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%) Church-State Relations

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) 

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (92%) Peter Steinfels; John G (Judge) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



582 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Another L. B. J.

BYLINE: By David Blumenthal and James Morone. 
David Blumenthal is the director of the Institute for Health Policy at Massachusetts General Hospital and a professor at Harvard Medical School. James Morone is a professor of political science at Brown University.

 BODY:
IN March 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson eyed one of the toughest unfinished tasks he had inherited from John F. Kennedy: creation of a national health care program for the elderly. With typical ambition and determination, he told his aide on health care, Wilbur Cohen, ''We're going to spend the rest of our lives if necessary passing medical care.'' 
 Fifteen months later, on July 30, 1965, Johnson traveled to Independence, Mo., and with Harry Truman at his side, signed the legislation that created Medicare, whose 40th anniversary we celebrate today.
If Johnson were alive, he would view Medicare with both pride and anxiety: pride in enormous past accomplishments, anxiety about an uncertain future. He would also probably be scratching his balding head over the way Medicare exemplifies the American health care system's enduring contradictions: its huge costs and persistent gaps in coverage. 
 Medicare was born in strife. The legislation emerged from a titanic struggle that raged across the American political landscape starting in 1949, when Harry Truman first proposed national health insurance.
 Conservatives saw Medicare as a potentially mortal intrusion of government on the American way of life. ''We will awake to find that we have socialism,'' Ronald Reagan warned in 1962. The American Medical Association, one of the most feared lobbies of that time, tenaciously opposed Medicare. For their part, liberals saw Medicare as the first step toward long overdue federal health care coverage for all Americans.
 In the end, Medicare's passage required a huge Democratic landslide in 1964, and a president who possessed not only energy and commitment, but also unparalleled legislative skills. Indeed, recently released tape recordings from the Johnson archives show the president functioning at times like a supermajority leader for both houses of Congress during the Medicare deliberations. After the bill passed the House Ways and Means Committee on March 23, 1965, Johnson spoke with Speaker John McCormack, instructing him with Texas earthiness to make haste: ''Now don't you let that dead cat hang around.'' Even so, Medicare initially passed the House by only 45 votes.
 Johnson would almost certainly feel today that the results were well worth the effort. Medicare -- and its companion program, Medicaid, for the poor -- made America a far more decent and healthy place, not only for the elderly but for younger generations who care for them. Before Medicare, only half of America's elderly had any kind of health insurance. But today, this country's 42 million elderly and disabled can visit virtually any doctor or hospital on any given day and receive the best care our health system has to offer. Older Americans now enjoy one of the highest average life expectancies in the world. That achievement is not all due to Medicare but hard to imagine without it.
 Nevertheless, Johnson would most likely be concerned about a program that is entering middle age burdened by growing infirmities. Medicare provides insufficient coverage for long term care services that are increasingly vital to older Americans living longer with chronic illness. Drug coverage, only recently created under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, is still incomplete and complex. Because of these continuing gaps, elderly Americans actually pay more for health care as a percent of their income now than they did before Medicare was enacted: 21.7 percent in 2000, versus 19.1 percent in 1965. Paradoxically, the program is also extremely expensive and wasteful. With the addition of the new drug benefit, the Congressional Budget Office estimates, it is expected to cost nearly $773 billion by 2015. 
 In its perplexing costs and gaps, Medicare mirrors our health care system generally, whose expenses will soon exceed $2 trillion -- more than the gross domestic product of Great Britain or France -- yet leaves 45 million Americans uninsured. It will be hard to preserve Medicare's benefits without finding solutions to our broader systemic problems, because Medicare relies on that system to serve elderly Americans. 
 Medicare's history suggests that tough problems in health care can be solved, but only after long struggle, and only with visionary and effective leadership from the highest reaches of our political system. Johnson pulled out all the stops for Medicare. He told Vice President Hubert Humphrey on March 6, 1965: ''I'll go a hundred million or a billon on health or education. I don't argue about that any more than I argue about Lady Bird buying flour.'' He added: ''I may cut back some tanks. But not on health.''
 One measure of Johnson's achievement is surely that Republicans, who have gone from reviling Medicare to enacting its costly new drug benefit, have accepted the program as part of America's social safety net and political firmament. But Medicare's mixed history also suggests that, in health care at least, no solution is ever final. Preserving its benefits, and fixing our failing health care system, will require strong support from the American public and a president as committed and politically agile as Lyndon Baines Johnson. It would be tragic if we had to wait four more decades for this rare combination to emerge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) David (Prof) Blumenthal; James (Prof) Morone; Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



583 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: SENATE APPROVES BILL PROTECTING GUN BUSINESSES

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29 

 BODY:
The Senate agreed to shield gun manufacturers and dealers from liability lawsuits on Friday, as Congress broke for a monthlong recess after sending President Bush energy and transportation bills that had been years in the making.
 Long sought by the gun lobby, the Senate measure -- approved 65 to 31 -- would prohibit lawsuits against gun makers and distributors for misuse of their products during the commission of a crime. Senate supporters said the plan was needed to protect the domestic firearms industry from a rash of lawsuits that threatened its economic future.
''This bill is intended to do one thing and that is to end the abuse that is now going on in the court system of America against law-abiding American businesses when they violate no law,'' Senator Larry Craig, an Idaho Republican who is a chief advocate for gun-rights causes in Congress, said Friday. 
 Democratic opponents of the bill disputed the assertion that a lawsuit crisis threatened the industry and said that the measure was simply a reflection of the National Rifle Association's influence over Congress. 
 ''This is about politics, the power of the N.R.A. to dictate legislation,'' said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, who led the opposition. 
 But Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, and 13 other Democrats joined 50 Republicans and one independent to support the bill; it now goes to the House, where its prospects for approval are good when Congress returns. Twenty-nine Democrats and two Republicans opposed it.
 The gun measure was just one of the significant pieces of legislation to advance as Congress cleared its plate for a fall that will initially be consumed, in the Senate at least, by consideration of a Supreme Court nominee. Before leaving, Senate Republicans and Democrats also agreed on the schedule for confirmation hearings.
 Ending a long policy struggle, the Senate passed and sent to Mr. Bush a broad piece of energy legislation, fulfilling an early domestic policy goal of his administration. 
 After extinguishing one last policy flare-up, the House and Senate also gave final approval to a $286.4 billion highway measure stuffed with special projects for virtually every Congressional district in the nation. Congress also finished its first two spending bills of the year, delivering $1.5 billion in emergency money to cover a shortfall in spending on veterans' health care. 
 And in an unexpected development, the Senate renewed its version of the antiterror USA Patriot Act.
 It was a blistering pace compared to the usual level of legislative activity. ''We either do nothing or everything at once,'' said Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia.
 The House adopted the highway measure on Friday morning by 412 to 8; the Senate agreed to it later in the day by 91 to 4. The bill had been delayed for years by disputes between the administration and Congress over the level of spending and fights over the formula for distributing money among the states. Its authors said the bill would help to ease traffic congestion around the country, improve safety, provide thousands of jobs and strengthen the economy.
 ''Modern highways and efficient transportation are essential to maintaining America's competitive edge,'' said Representative Thomas E. Petri, a Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the highways subcommittee. ''It has been a struggle to craft this bill and to be fair to every region, but its importance would be hard to exaggerate.''
 Critics in both the House and Senate as well as watchdog groups criticized the measure for its price tag and the wide variety of special projects -- nearly 6,000 by one count -- including multimillion-dollar highways and bridges, museums and recreational trails, and even transportation improvements at the Bronx Zoo. 
 Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who is a frequent critic of such spending, spent almost 30 minutes on the Senate floor, singling out dozens of projects for ridicule, including $2.2 million to make landscape improvements to the Ronald Reagan freeway in California.
 ''I wonder what Ronald Reagan would say,'' Mr. McCain said, noting that the late president was a critic of such Congressional largesse.
 House members had hoped to approve the transportation bill on Thursday, but several lawmakers objected to a Senate plan they said was an effort to circumvent the closing of an Air Force base in Montana. Senator Max Baucus, the Democratic senator from the state, disputed that assertion but agreed to withdraw the provision.
 The energy plan was stalled two years ago by a filibuster, but senators on Friday endorsed the energy policy, 74 to 26. It includes $14.5 billion in industry and energy efficiency tax breaks along with provisions that seek to increase domestic use of renewable fuels, reinvigorate the nuclear power industry and bolster the nation's electric grid. Its passage was made possible when House Republicans dropped a push to grant producers of a gasoline additive protection from pollution lawsuits. 
 Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who was a chief author of the bill, dismissed complaints that it did too little to lower gas prices or reduce consumption.
 ''The problem is far bigger than gasoline prices tomorrow morning,'' Mr. Domenici said. ''It is what will be the state of energy in 5 and 10 years from now in the United States. I can tell you, we will be safer. We will have more jobs, we will have an electricity system that is safe and sound. We will have diversity of energy sources and supplies built in our country for us.''
 Mr. Bush also welcomed the energy bill, which passed Congress more than four years after an administration task force led by Vice President Dick Cheney called for a new national energy approach.
 ''The bipartisan energy bill passed today will give America a comprehensive national energy strategy for the first time in more than a decade and is critically important to our long-term national and economic security,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement.
 Other lawmakers and conservation groups continued to criticize the measure, saying it was too generous to industry and too timid when it came to addressing consumption.
 ''Our nation's energy crisis has reached historic levels,'' said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''We need policy whose boldness is commensurate with that crisis. But that's not what we're getting. Instead, we're getting a pork-laden, lobbyist-driven dream bill.''
 On the gun legislation, Democrats offered a series of amendments but were beaten back, except in pressing for a measure that would permit lawsuits in cases in which a weapon lacked child-safety locks. Mr. Craig said that change was acceptable to both the industry and the House since such locks were now virtually an industry standard.
 Congressional Democrats had been able to scuttle the bill in the past, but Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, employed a procedural maneuver to limit amendments. Democrats said the Republican argument that protecting gun companies was a national security priority because of supplies to the military and police was disingenuous. 
 ''Guess what,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, ''the bulk of contracts to arm our country's military and law enforcement are already held by foreign manufacturers based in Austria, Italy, Germany, Sweden, Jordan and Belgium. And lawsuits have nothing to do with that.''
 But supporters said the proposal was modest and would not protect gun makers or dealers from lawsuits in cases where they acted illegally. ''America's crime problems will be solved not by unjustly targeting the gun industry for the criminal actions of others, but by targeting the unjust criminals,'' Mr. Frist said.
 As the Senate moved through the day's votes, some lawmakers urged their colleagues to hurry so they could begin their summer break or, in the case of Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, attend to other pressing matters.
 ''Could we please cut down on the rhetoric so that we might be able to get along with the people's business and cast our votes?'' Mr. Roberts asked. ''I make this request not only as a senator from Kansas but as the father of a young lady that I will be walking down the aisle tomorrow.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (93%); LITIGATION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (73%); JUDGES (73%); FIREARMS WHOLESALERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); US PATRIOT ACT (69%) Firearms; Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation; Liability for Products; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Crime and Criminals; Energy and Power; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); JACK REED (58%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



584 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Edge, Ferrer Readies Ad Blitz

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer is set to start advertising as soon as Tuesday, his campaign manager said yesterday, an attempt to expand his lead over his Democratic rivals and one that signals a new phase in the race for mayor.
 The ads, which are set for cable television and radio, are to run citywide, with some directed at African-American and Latino media outlets. They will focus on Mr. Ferrer's biography, public service record and plans for the city, said Nick Baldick, Mr. Ferrer's campaign manager. 
Mr. Baldick would not specify how frequently the ads would run or how much the campaign was spending, saying only that the purchase was a ''substantial citywide buy.'' But according to aides to rival candidates, it is a modest ad campaign, costing only in the tens of thousands of dollars for the week.
 ''We're going up with enough that we will be a presence and stay up through the primary,'' Mr. Baldick said, adding that it would allow the campaign to tell Mr. Ferrer's life story when the airways were less cluttered.
 ''We thought that this was an opportunity to reach a lot of voters in a strong way,'' he said.
 But in starting to advertise before his Democratic rivals, Mr. Ferrer, a former Bronx borough president, is clearly seeking to define his own candidacy with an eye toward avoiding a primary runoff and competing directly with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 In May, Mr. Bloomberg began an advertising blitz with his own standing rising and that of Mr. Ferrer, who had once led in opinion polls, plummeting. Since then, the mayor's standing has increased.
 And Mr. Ferrer, who has consistently led the Democratic field in polls and whose campaign has seemed relatively smooth of late, now hopes to take advantage of a similar moment and pull far enough ahead to capture the 40 percent of the vote needed to avoid a runoff. ''Winning the primary is obviously the goal,'' Mr. Baldick said, adding that 40 percent would be ''fantastic.''
 Mr. Baldick offered few specifics about Mr. Ferrer's commercials, but said they employed a mix of voice-over narration about Mr. Ferrer's life and record in public service and Mr. Ferrer himself talking about his ideas for the future of the city.
 Aides to the other Democrats said they, too, would begin advertising soon, but they declined to offer any specifics.
 Also yesterday, one mayoral candidate, C. Virginia Fields, accused Mr. Bloomberg of endangering New Yorkers by refusing to reopen six fire engine companies he closed in 2003.
 Standing outside one of the shuttered firehouses, Engine Company 36 in East Harlem, Ms. Fields, the Manhattan borough president, said the closings had led to a sharp increase in Fire Department response times citywide. ''We know that when there is a fire, seconds can make the difference between life and death,'' she said.
 The average response time to structural fires in June was 4 minutes, 37 seconds, according to Fire Department figures. That is a 25-second increase compared with June 2004.
 Ms. Fields did not offer details about how to pay for the reopened fire companies, other than to say that as mayor she would ''work in order to identify those resources to do it.''
 Mr. Bloomberg and Fire Department officials have said that the closings have not had a significant effect on citywide operations.
 The Fire Department released a statement yesterday saying it had found that less than one-third of a second of the increased response times could be attributed to the closed firehouses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%) Political Advertising; Primaries

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Diane Cardwell; Manny Fernandez; Fernando Ferrer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



585 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Four Tied to Failed Attacks In London Are in Custody
All four people suspected in the failed July 21 bombing attacks in London were in custody after police raids in London and Rome, a Scotland Yard official said. A1

Irish React to I.R.A.'s Pledge
After the Irish Republican Army's pledge to end its bloody 36-year campaign of violence, residents of Belfast say the announcement did not really change anything. A3

At a celebratory lunch in New York, one eminent speaker after another rose to rejoice in the news that the Irish Republican Army had abandoned violence, and they suggested Northern Ireland could prove an example to the world. A3

Sexual Violence in Darfur
Sexual violence by soldiers, militia members and the police is widespread throughout Sudan's Darfur region, and the authorities often end up accusing the victims rather than investigating the crimes, the United Nations said. A8

State Department Resignation
Roger F. Noriega, an outspoken critic of both Cuba and Venezuela who has served as assistant secretary of state for Latin American affairs, announced his resignation. A8

Suicide Bomber Strikes in Iraq
A suicide bomber blew himself up outside an army recruitment center in a village near the Syrian border, an official with the Iraqi Interior Ministry said. The official said the attack killed 26 people and wounded at least 30, although the figure was not confirmed. A9

Death for Chinese Rapist
A teacher in Western China who raped 23 fourth- and fifth-grade girls has been sentenced to death, according to an account this week in a Chinese newspaper. A9

NATIONAL A10-13

Congress Begins Recess After Aiding Gun Industry
The Senate agreed to shield gun manufacturers and dealers from liability lawsuits as Congress broke for a monthlong recess behind a rush of legislation led by energy and highway bills sent to President Bush after years of impasse. A1

The highway legislation is packed with more than $24 billion in special projects for individual states. A13

Food Union Leaves Federation
The United Food and Commercial Workers, one of the nation's five largest labor unions, quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , becoming the third big union to leave the federation. A10

Conservatives Pounce on Frist
Conservative Republicans, irate that Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist has broken with President Bush on the volatile issue of human embryonic stem cell research, warned that his support for the work could cost him the Republican nomination for the presidency, should he seek it. A11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Possible 10th Planet Revealed
Add a tenth planet to the solar system -- or possibly subtract one. Astronomers announced that they had found a lump of rock and ice that was larger than Pluto and the farthest known object in the solar system. The discovery will probably rekindle debate whether Pluto still merits the ''planet'' designation. A1

NASA Deems Problems Fixable
NASA Administrator Michael D. Griffin said problems with falling debris from the space shuttle's fuel tank would be quickly solved, but conceded that NASA engineers and managers erred in deciding not to modify the area of the fuel tank. A10

Beliefs A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Few Ripples Result From Random Searches
The New York Police Department has randomly searched the bags of several thousand commuters in more than 400 subway stations. The fallout from this unprecedented, systematic search: One arrest for possession of illegal fireworks, zero legal challenges and, according to the police and transit officials, minimal resistance. B1

Connecticut Crash Kills 4
Four people were killed and more than a dozen were injured when a dump truck collided with a car at a busy intersection in Avon, Conn., setting off a chain of fiery collisions. B3

Drowning Death Inquiry
Yonkers Police were trying to determine whether two young boys had been intentionally scalded and drowned, or if the parents had been criminally negligent. The apartment was in disarray, and there was evidence of drug use, the Yonkers' police commissioner said. B3

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

Woods Shoots 61 at Buick Open
Tiger Woods shot an 11-under-par 61 -- his best round in relation to par on the PGA Tour -- to trail the leader, Vijay Singh, by one stroke halfway through the Buick Open. D1

ARTS B7-18

OBITUARIES C16

Arthur Zankel
A financier who oversaw the Carnegie Hall endowment fund and made a $10 million donation that led to the construction of a new concert space there named for him, he was 73. C16

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Family Rift at News Corp.
Rupert Murdoch's elder son Lachlan, considered to be his heir apparent, resigned from his job at News Corporation after an apparent family rift. A1

High Spending Spurs Growth
Businesses and households went on a shopping spree this spring, causing warehouse stockpiles to shrink and setting the stage for faster economic growth during the rest of the year. C1

Congress Passes Saftey Bill
A transportation bill passed by Congress orders the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to impose a number of more stringent vehicle safety measures. C1

G.E. May Buy DreamWorks
The board of directors of General Electric gave executives the authority to move ahead with talks to buy DreamWorks SKG, people apprised of the talks said. C3

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The roots of prisoner abuse; Senator Frist's stem cell shift; behind the famine footage; a windfall of the M.T.A.

Columns: John Tierney.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B18
Crossword B16
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (85%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LITIGATION (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); ARMIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); SENTENCING (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (67%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (67%); FIREARMS (63%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (63%); MILITARY RECRUITING (56%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PLUTO (65%) SUDAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); CHINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



586 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Sets Off Tug of War Over Private Property

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ, Calif. 

 BODY:
More than a month after the Supreme Court ruled that governments could take one person's property and give it to another in the name of public interest, the decision has set off a storm of legislative action and protest, as states have moved to protect homes and businesses from the expanded reach of eminent domain.
 In California and Texas, legislators have proposed constitutional amendments, while at least a dozen other states and some cities are floating similar changes designed to rein in the power to take property.
But at the same time, the ruling has emboldened some cities to take property for development plans on private land. Here in Santa Cruz, for example, city officials started legal action this month to seize a parcel of family-owned land that holds a restaurant with a high Zagat rating, two other businesses and a conspicuous hole in the ground and force a sale to a developer who plans to build 54 condominiums. 
 Far from clarifying government's ability to take private property, the 5-to-4 Supreme Court decision has set up a summer of scrutiny over a power that has been regularly used but little-discussed for decades. 
 ''The intense reaction -- this backlash -- has caught a lot of people off guard,'' said Larry Morandi, who tracks land use developments for the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 In Connecticut, where the court case originated, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, has likened the reaction to the Boston Tea Party and called for a moratorium on land takings until the legislature can revisit the law.
 California's proposal would prohibit the use of eminent domain, a process in which governments force a sale of someone's property, in cases like Santa Cruz's. 
 ''This decision opens a new era when the rich and powerful can use government to seize the property of ordinary citizens for private gain,'' said State Senator Tom McClintock, a Republican who proposed the amendment.
 In Congress, liberals like Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, have joined conservatives like Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, in criticizing the ruling. The House voted 365 to 33 to pass a resolution condemning the decision, and proposals in both the House and the Senate would prevent the federal government from using eminent domain for private development, as well as local governments using federal money on such projects. 
 The Fifth Amendment allows the taking of land for ''public use'' with ''just compensation,'' and governments have long used the practice to build roads and schools and to allow utilities to run service lines. In its June 23 ruling regarding efforts by the City of New London, Conn., to condemn homes in an old part of town to make way for a private development, the Supreme Court said public use could mean something that brings a public benefit -- like jobs or increased tax revenue.
 But at the same time, the court invited states to tailor their own laws. While only one state, Delaware, has changed its law, most states are likely to have a proposed change by next year, Mr. Morandi said.
 ''The initial outcry after the court case was: Nobody's house is safe, we've got to do something now,'' he said. ''But as more states take a look at this they will respond in some form, but they won't want to take away a valuable tool.'' 
 In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry added the issue to a special legislative session initially called for education. Both houses passed bills limiting eminent domain with some exceptions, including one allowing the City of Arlington to condemn homes for a new Dallas Cowboys football stadium, a project already under way. The two versions of the bills were not reconciled before the session ended.
 But some cities view the ruling as blessing their redevelopment plans; Arlington filed condemnation lawsuits against some holdout property owners this month. Officials in Sunset Hills, Mo., outside St. Louis, voted to condemn a cluster of homes to make way for a shopping center, despite the pleas of some elderly homeowners who said they had nowhere else to go and no desire to move. Officials in Oakland, Calif., evicted a tire shop and an auto repair shop to make room for a development that is part of Mayor Jerry Brown's plan to bring 10,000 residents to the central part of the city.
 In Santa Cruz, the plans pit one family against the city's long effort to redevelop a downtown hit by the 1989 earthquake. With the Supreme Court's ruling, city officials here said they felt free to seize a 20,000-square-foot lot they considered a blight. 
 To the city, the lot owned by the Lau family is a drag on other businesses, because the hole, left by the earthquake, has never been redeveloped. To the family, the seizure is legalized theft and shows how the court decision can be used to take anyone's property under the broad rubric of public use. 
 ''My family has owned this land for 36 years,'' said Eric Lau, who laid bricks to shore up the building that would become his thriving restaurant, which is adjacent to the hole. ''And now they're trying to erase us from this place, to take it and say we don't have any choice.''
 The ruling has struck a chord; in a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll this month, the legal issue that Americans said most concerned them was ''private property rights,'' ahead of parental notification for minors' abortions or the right-to-die debate. 
 Property rights groups have united with more liberal organizations in arguing that taking property for economic use usually favors the rich over the poor.
 ''Typically, you have these corporate lobbyists who go down to a city council and say, 'Take this person's property and we'll build you a shopping center,''' said Timothy Sandefur, a lawyer with the Pacific Legal Foundation, a libertarian-leaning legal group that helped draft the proposed California amendment.
 Opponents of the Supreme Court decision also point to San Diego, where Ahmed Mesdaq lost his prosperous cigar and coffee shop in the trendy Gaslamp Quarter to a hotel project, which the city said would bring more tax revenue.
 Many city officials say eminent domain is crucial for creating jobs, expanding tax bases and keeping their communities economically viable. 
 ''Redevelopment is sometimes the only tool a community has to jump-start revitalization of downtrodden, blighted communities,'' officials at the California League of Cities wrote in a response to the proposed amendment. 
 Mayor Brown of Oakland said it was inevitable that some small businesses would have to be relocated, and he urged caution in any efforts to pass laws. ''I understand the horror of urban renewal,'' he said. ''But you don't want to take away a tool that a city has to reform itself. If you did, Oakland would suffer greatly.''
 During the 1970's, the Lau property, with its bookstore and cafe in the pre-Starbucks age, was a central hangout in funky Santa Cruz, neighbors say. Eric Lau watched his father's bookstore come to life and then die in the Loma Prieta earthquake, which destroyed the building. 
 The family's restaurant, Oswald, would not be considered blight by many standards. There is ivy on the outside walls, art on the inside, and the tables are covered with fresh-pressed linen. The restaurant is packed on most nights, neighbors say. And it has consistently been voted one of the best places to dine in Santa Cruz, a beach town of 54,000 people south of San Jose, known for its university and the carpet of redwoods on its fog-shrouded hills. 
 Ron Lau, who is 69, has long tried to build something on the undeveloped part of the property -- the hole in the ground. The problem, city officials say, is that Mr. Lau has proposed hard-to-build, idealistic plans, involving alternative energy sources and unusual designs, that have never gotten off the ground, angering some nearby property owners. 
 ''We do not use eminent domain frivolously,'' said Ceil Cirillo, executive director of the Santa Cruz Redevelopment Agency. ''I feel we have been very fair and very patient.''
 Taking the Lau property would serve the public good, Ms. Cirillo said, ''because there is a hole in the center of our retail district.''
 Eric Lau and his sister Lani say the city is taking their property simply because their father took so much time to try to build something unusual. 
 ''My dad was hellbent on getting his dream project built, nothing less, and that has been his biggest weakness,'' Eric Lau said.
 The city agency has offered the family $1.6 million for the property, and the Laus plan to fight it. It is unclear whether the amendment would protect the Laus, but they hope to hang on to the property long enough to find out. A vote on the amendment would come no sooner than next June, legislative leaders say.
 Meanwhile, the Laus say they are willing to modify their plans and build something close to what the city has agreed to with a developer. 
 But city officials say that they have run out of patience and that it is too late for the Laus to come up with new designs. They have an exclusive agreement, Ms. Cirillo said, with a developer, Bolton Hill, to take over the property and build on it. 
 ''The project is moving forward,'' Ms. Cirillo said. ''The Supreme Court gave us reassurance of our ability to proceed.'' 
 As for Laus and their restaurant, Ms. Cirillo said there might still be a place for them in the new development -- after they sell out. 
 ''Ideally, we would like to see them relocated in some way to the project,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials in Santa Cruz, Calif., have begun to use eminent domain laws to force the sale of property that holds a family-owned restaurant. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 Ahmed Mesdaq's property in San Diego will give way to a hotel project. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); APPEALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VERDICTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CITIES (76%); FAMILY (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Eminent Domain; Decisions and Verdicts; Constitutional Amendments; States (US); Urban Areas; Eminent Domain; Housing; Condominiums

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (54%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (71%); MAXINE WATERS (56%) Timothy Egan; M Jodi (Gov) Rell; Lau Family

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (86%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) California; Texas; Santa Cruz (Calif); New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



587 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes an Energy Bill in Time for the Drive Home

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
SQUEEZED against its summer recess, Congress passed a pair of bills that had been closely watched by business leaders. A widely anticipated schism in the labor movement also unfolded as expected, and the anticorruption crusade of New York's attorney general found a new target: the recorded music industry.

POWER POLITICS -- With oil hovering near $60 a barrel, dragging on the economy and keeping economists worried about inflation, Congressional leaders brokered several significant compromises to produce the first comprehensive energy bill in years. If signed by President Bush, it would set rules intended to increase the reliability of electrical supplies, encourage the construction of nuclear power plants and finance research into alternative energy sources.
The bill would do little to lower gasoline prices in the near term, and critics say it does not do enough to encourage conservation. Coincidentally, an annual report from the Environmental Protection Agency said that cars and trucks sold today are significantly less fuel-efficient, on average, than they were in the late 1980's.
 The energy bill would, however, make available $14.5 billion in subsidies and tax credits. They include up to $3.2 billion for renewable electricity sources, $3.1 billion for electric utilities, $2.9 billion for the coal industry and $2.6 billion for oil and gas companies. Smaller sums would be available for research into alternatives to gasoline-fueled cars and for conservation programs.
 Congress rejected a provision to indemnify the makers of MTBE, a gasoline additive that has fouled drinking-water supplies across the country. That provision prevented adoption of an energy bill last year.
 The bill calls for a new inventory of offshore oil and gas resources, which could increase pressure to drill off states like Florida and North Carolina that have resisted oil exploration as a threat to their tourism industries.

SWEET AND SOUR -- Congress also (narrowly) approved a free-trade pact with six small Central American countries, overcoming surprisingly strong opposition from a diverse collection of interest groups including organized labor, textile mill owners and sugar beet growers.
 The pact, called the Central American Free Trade Agreement, would end most trade barriers between the United States and the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. The countries are small -- combined, their economies are equivalent to 1 percent of the United States economy -- but the agreement gives President Bush a political victory in having pushed through the biggest reduction of trade barriers in more than a decade.
 Standard & Poor's Ratings Services said the trade agreement could raise the sovereign credit ratings of the six Latin American countries participating in it.

SOLIDARITY FOREVER? -- Organized labor played through its game of chicken, with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. re-electing John J. Sweeney its president and two of its biggest members, the Service Employees International Union and the Teamsters, quitting the federation in protest.
 At issue was a rift over how to cope with the decline of organized labor in America: less than 8 percent of private-sector workers belong to unions today, compared with 35 percent a half-century ago.
 Mr. Sweeney advocates using labor's political power to fight for workers' rights and to protect domestic jobs from overseas competition. Dissidents, led by Andrew L. Stern, president of the service employees, want to focus instead on signing up more union members, arguing that larger numbers would make it easier to achieve the other goals.
 Further defections may be imminent. Joe Hansen, the president of the United Food and Commercial Workers, for example, has said his union may also leave soon.

PAY TO PLAY -- Ever wonder why the same few songs seem to repeat endlessly on some radio stations? Sony BMG Music Entertainment offered one explanation last week when it conceded that it had given radio programmers gifts like flat-screen televisions and out-of-town trips when they arranged to play certain songs again and again.
 The practice, called payola, is illegal. In a deal to resolve an investigation by New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, Sony BMG acknowledged that some of its employees ''pursued some radio promotion practices on behalf of the company that were wrong and improper.'' Sony BMG apologized, fired one executive and disciplined four others, and paid a $10 million fine.
 The investigation now turns to other record companies, including Vivendi Universal, the Warner Music Group and the EMI Group, and involves nationwide radio broadcasters including Clear Channel and Emmis Communications.

UNFRIENDLY SKIES -- Airplanes packed with summer travelers and a measure of relief in fuel prices have been enough to vault a few airlines back into the black last quarter. But any hope that the industry in general has turned a corner were dashed when two of its biggest players, Northwest and Delta, warned that they were on their way to bankruptcy court.
 Neither actually filed papers seeking protection from their creditors, but both said they were likely to do so unless Congress passes legislation to relieve them of their pension obligations. Northwest also said it would require $1.1 billion in wage and benefit cuts from its unions if it were to avoid a trip to bankruptcy court.
 The crunch for Northwest will come first. Having failed to agree on new contract terms, the airline and one of its unions, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, are in a 30-day cooling-off period that ends Aug. 20. If there is no agreement then, Northwest can unilaterally impose its cuts, leaving its employees to accept them or strike. 

MOVING ON -- DaimlerChrysler's chairman, Jurgen E. Schrempp, finally found a way to get Detroit to talk about something other than the latest discounting gimmick. He quit.
 At the end of the year, Mr. Schrempp, a brusque leader who oversaw the 1998 merger of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler that created the German-American automaker, will be succeeded by Dieter Zetsche, an affable executive who has revived the sales and profits of the company's Chrysler division in nearly five years as its chief.
 Mr. Schrempp announced his unexpected departure just days after the company said its operating profit -- excluding a gain from lower income taxes -- declined 20 percent in the second quarter. The biggest hit came at Mercedes, where operating profit tumbled 98 percent, largely because of restructuring costs at the Smart minicar unit, which is part of the Mercedes group.
 Thomas W. LaSorda, a Canadian whose father and grandfather were union leaders who once represented Chrysler workers, will succeed Mr. Zetsche as chief executive of the Chrysler Group.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Congress passed a trade pact with Central American countries like Nicaragua, where these workers make shoes to export. (Photo by Esteban Felix/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); BIOFUELS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); FUEL ADDITIVES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); FABRIC MILLS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); TEXTILE MILLS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); TEXTILE MFG (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (63%); SOVEREIGN RISK (63%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (55%); SUGAR FARMING (50%); TOURISM (50%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (50%) Electric Light and Power; International Trade and World Market; Central American Free Trade Agreement; Labor; Organized Labor; Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies; Automobiles ; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation ; Atomic Energy; Research; Factories and Industrial Plants; Bribery; Radio; Music; Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) Sony Bmg; Vivendi Universal Entertainment ; Warner Music Group; Emi Group Plc; Northwest Airlines; Delta Air Lines; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Service Employees International Union; International Brotherhood of Teamsters

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Mark A Stein; Mark A Stein; Sweeney. John J; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Mark A Stein; Dieter Zetsche; Mark A Stein; Jurgen E Schrempp

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); NICARAGUA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COSTA RICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Dominican Republic; Costa Rica; El Salvador; Guatemala; Honduras; Nicaragua

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005



588 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2006 Lexus RX400h; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: The Hybrid Emperor's New Clothes

BYLINE: By JEFF SABATINI

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
ONE question lingers after driving the 2006 Lexus RX400h: How did it come to this, that Toyota is now selling a hybrid gas-electric vehicle with no tangible fuel economy benefits?
 In my test-driving, the Lexus hybrid, which is based on the gasoline-only RX 330, did not achieve better mileage than the 2005 RX330 that I drove for comparison.
My hybrid tester's window sticker did boast a federal mileage rating of 31 miles per gallon in the city and 27 on the highway, compared with just 18 and 24 for the RX without the hybrid drivetrain. But the government's testing procedure has a habit -- one that seems to be exaggerated with hybrids -- of rendering fuel economy numbers as relevant to the real world as national energy policies have been to actually reducing dependence on foreign oil.
 Speaking of which, isn't that what hybrids are all about: conservation, improved fuel economy, weaning the nation off its oil habit? Perhaps not any longer. 
 The hybrid version of the Lexus sport utility wagon follows in the tracks of the 2005 Honda Accord Hybrid by offering more horsepower than the conventional version of the same vehicle, a markedly different approach than that of economy-focused hybrids like Toyota's own Prius or Honda's Civic Hybrid. In this case we're talking 268 horsepower for the RX400h, versus 230 for the gasoline-only RX330. 
 True, Toyota is not marketing the RX400h as being environmentally friendly, focusing instead on its performance and typical Lexus luxuriousness. While this may provide the company some absolution, the RX400h's failure to deliver, in my experience, even a nominal improvement in gas mileage still seems like a sin of omission. It has been fundamental to the understanding and acceptance of hybrids that they offer better fuel economy than vehicles powered by conventional gasoline engines. Toyota itself helped to establish that impression with its Prius.
 A hybrid's improved economy is primarily accomplished in city driving, by using an electric motor to assume some of the motive burden from the gasoline engine, as well as shutting off the engine when the vehicle comes to rest, so it is not idling, burning fuel, at red lights.
 Certainly, it is the Prius's above-average fuel economy that Toyota has to thank for its image as a green car company. Environmental advocates do not proclaim the righteousness of all things Toyota based on the 958,888 light trucks and S.U.V.'s that it sold in the United States last year, fully 47 percent of its total sales. By comparison, only 53,991 Priuses were sold in 2004, though the company has stated that it plans to double that number this year.
 It is understandable that Toyota would like to transfer the Prius's hybrid chic and green patina to other products. To this end, a hybrid version of the Toyota Highlander S.U.V. was also introduced this year, and the automaker has announced plans to add both a hybrid version of its Camry, the nation's best-selling sedan, and a hybrid Lexus GS sport sedan next year. Whether these vehicles will be gas misers like the Prius or thirstier performance-oriented hybrids like the RX400h remains to be seen.
 My first seat time in the Lexus hybrid came over a weekend in which I drove the 200 miles from Chicago to Grand Rapids, Mich. I spent a lot of time on the freeway, but I also traveled some back roads and slogged through a couple of stop-and-go city stints. By the time I returned to Chicago, I had put 531 miles on the odometer and calculated my fuel economy at 20.9 m.p.g.
 I returned this vehicle to Toyota, but later tested another RX400h for a week. I drove this one 556 miles and did a bit better, averaging 23.0 m.p.g.
 In an effort to make a direct comparison with the conventional gasoline-only Lexus, I contacted Toyota and asked for an RX330 test car. When the company said that none was available, I called on an acquaintance who had recently bought an RX330 with all-wheel drive, and made arrangements to drive that vehicle over essentially the same Chicago-Grand Rapids route.
 While this was not a controlled experiment, the results from my stint in the RX330 were nonetheless illuminating: 462 miles traveled, at an average of 21.6 m.p.g.
 I'll be charitable and call the gas mileage comparison between the hybrids and the standard RX a draw, though there is a clearly a loser -- anyone who buys an RX400h under the assumption that it will consume appreciably less fuel in a range of driving situations.
 That it doesn't forces one to consider the RX400h on its other merits, of which there are precious few. The hybrid is visually indistinguishable from its conventional counterpart, save for some cosmetics and slightly different gauges, though it does come loaded with luxury equipment that is optional on the RX330. It has somewhat lower tailpipe emissions, carrying a ''super ultra low'' emissions rating on models sold in states that follow California's clean-air rules, compared with ''ultra low'' for the RX330.
 The best thing I can say in its defense is that at least behind the wheel of this hybrid, you won't find yourself being cut off by drivers of full-size S.U.V.'s and luxury sedans muttering ''tree hugger'' under their breath, as you might in a Prius.
 The hybrid RX does accelerate briskly, thanks to the addition of two electric drive motors to a detuned version of the 3.3-liter V-6 found in the RX330. (A third electric motor acts as a starter-generator.) 
 The ultimate value of this extra thrust is debatable, however, as by Toyota's own admission the hybrid drivetrain cuts only half a second off the RX330's 0-to-60 acceleration time of 7.8 seconds. The culprit here is the extra 300 pounds of mass the hybrid has to haul around, which pushes its unloaded weight to 4,365 pounds. 
 Whether those driving the RX400h will use the extra oomph is another question, as under full power the vehicle's continuously variable transmission tends to rev the engine, producing quite a bit of noise. This is exactly the sort of unpleasantness that causes the average motorist to avoid the upper reaches of the tachometer.
 Noise of any sort is anathema to a Lexus, so on the freeway the incessant whirring of the RX400h's front electric motor was as surprising as it was irritating. Cycling on and off, the sound was not loud, but it was audible above the drone of talk radio. 
 Though I might be willing to put up with all sorts of annoyances in the name of better fuel economy or enhanced performance, I found not a lot of either in the RX400h. It doesn't even travel farther between fill-ups, since the hybrid's gas tank is two gallons smaller than the RX330's. And with very little to make it preferable to a comparably equipped RX330, the price is more outlandish than the mileage: At $49,185, the RX400h's sticker is $4,000 more than a fully loaded RX330's and about $11,000 more than one without options.
 Even so, Toyota presold 11,000 of the hybrid sport wagons before they arrived at dealerships, a not-unsurprising development given the popularity of the Prius. At least the people paying so much for this hybrid should be able to afford all the gas they won't be saving. They will also be eligible, under current law, for a $2,000 federal tax deduction for hybrid-vehicle buyers, and possibly for state and local tax breaks as well.
 I hope Toyota continues to pursue the worthy cause of developing vehicles that push the limits of automotive technology in the quest for better fuel economy, as it has with the Prius. 
 That the RX400h does nothing to further this goal is regrettable. Perhaps even more unfortunate is that Toyota's motivation in pushing hybrid technology may turn out to be a different shade of green than we've been led to believe, one much closer to the color of money.

INSIDE TRACK: Toyota's zero-sum game.


GRAPHIC: Photo: It is quicker and more expensive, but the Lexus RX hybrid may not save a lot of gas.Chart: ''Gas or Gas-Electric? 2 Lexus Sport Wagons'' lists features and specifications for selected Lexus Sport Wagons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Reviews

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Lexus Division of Toyota Motor Sales Usa

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Jeff Sabatini

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



589 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: July 31, 2005; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1308 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1		1	LIFEGUARD, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Things go terribly awry when a lifeguard at a Florida resort agrees to take part in a $5 million heist.		 	 	 	 2	2	5	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	 3		1	UNTIL I FIND YOU, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Tracing the experiences of a movie star named Jack Burns, whose life has revolved around his relationships with older girls and older women. 		 	 	 	 4	1	4	ELEVEN ON TOP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) As she tries to leave the world of bounty hunting, Stephanie Plum realizes a lunatic is stalking her.		 	 	 	 5		1	ORIGIN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) In 2059, Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the killings of a father and son, both of whom were cosmetic surgeons; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	 6	3	122	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 7	4	3	MIRACLE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $20.) When a terrible storm hits Northern California, the lives of three people are changed forever.		 	 	 	 8	5	15	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk who is just months away from taking his final vows.		 	 	 	 9	8	14	TRUE BELIEVER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) A hip young New Yorker finds love with a beautiful librarian who lives in North Carolina.		 	 	 	 10		1	CRUSADER'S CROSS, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) The sheriff's deputy Dave Robicheaux probes a series of sex killings in Louisiana.		 	 	 	 11		1	BREAKING POINT, by Suzanne Brockmann. (Ballantine, $21.95.) The commander of an F.B.I. counterterrorism unit tries to protect the woman he loves.		 	 	 	 12	7	11	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, investigates a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	 	 13	13	94	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died trying to rescue a girl finds that all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 14	9	6	A LONG WAY DOWN, by Nick Hornby. (Riverhead, $24.95.) On New Year's Eve, four would-be suicides gather on a London rooftop.		 	 	 	 15	11	3	CROSS BONES, by Kathy Reichs. (Scribner, $25.95.) The murder of an Orthodox Jewish man in Montreal leads the forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan to Israel, where she encounters a biblical mystery.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	8	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	 2	3	15	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	 3	2	14	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	 4	4	2	THE SECRET MAN, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) The longtime reporter and editor for The Washington Post tells the story of Deep Throat and Watergate; with an afterword by Carl Bernstein.		 	 	 	 5	6	2	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	 6	7	27	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 7	5	3	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	 8	8	4	THE TRUTH ABOUT HILLARY, by Edward Klein. (Sentinel, $24.95.) An unflattering portrait of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.		 	 	 	 9	9	18	ON BULL / / / /, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	 10	10	4	LANCE ARMSTRONG'S WAR, by Daniel Coyle. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) How the great cyclist won his sixth Tour de France in 2004. 		 	 	 	 11	11	42	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	 12	15	16	THREE NIGHTS IN AUGUST, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A three-game series in 2003 between the Cubs and the Cardinals, as seen through the eyes of Tony La Russa, the St. Louis manager.		 	 	 	 13	14	27	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	 	 14	12	2	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of the addiction memoir ''A Million Little Pieces'' remembers a helpful mobster friend.		 	 	 	 15		5	A LOTUS GROWS IN THE MUD, by Goldie Hawn with Wendy Holden. (Putnam, $25.95.) A memoir by the Hollywood actress.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended July 16, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

ENVY, by Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $24.95.) A psychoanalyst is unhappy but distant until Greek-tragedy things start happening in this novel by an ace student of sexual violation.

THE ICARUS GIRL, by Helen Oyeyemi. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) A nightmarish first novel whose 8-year-old protagonist is haunted by a malevolent spook.

NO COUNTRY for old men, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.95.) Women grieve, men fight in this hard-boiled Texas noir crime novel.

SPINNING THE GLOBE: The Rise, Fall, and Return to Greatness of the Harlem Globetrotters, by Ben Green. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) Net stars before blacks could go pro.

STAR DUST, by Frank Bidart. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) The fastidious and the primal join in poems concerned with man as maker.

UNDER AND ALONE: The True Story of the Undercover Agent Who Infiltrated America's Most Violent Outlaw Motorcycle Gang, by William Queen. (Random House, $24.95.) A perilous, successful venture by a federal officer.

WAR REPORTING FOR COWARDS, by Chris Ayres. (Atlantic Monthly, $23.) Nine days' combat with marines; much in the Waugh tradition.

DIVIDED BY GOD: America's Church-State Problem -- and What We Should Do About It, by Noah Feldman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A law professor looks for common ground.

DANCING WITH STRANGERS: Europeans and Australians at First Contact, by Inga Clendinnen. (Cambridge University, cloth, $60; paper, $21.99.) Scenes of maximum mutual misunderstanding, rendered by a distinguished Australian historian.

TRUE TO LIFE: Why Truth Matters, by Michael P. Lynch. (Bradford/MIT, cloth, $27.95; paper, $14.95.) Traditional ideas of truth and its uses defended against radical views by a philosophy professor.

THE BRADBURY CHRONICLES: The Life of Ray Bradbury, by Sam Weller. (Morrow, $26.95.) The life of the man who elevated science fiction to the rank of literature in the 1950's.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HISTORY (72%); DEATHS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); TERRORISM (60%); SHERIFFS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (89%); DAN BROWN (79%); MITCH ALBOM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



590 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 2; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: When Your Mileage Doesn't Match the Window Sticker

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
FOR decades, Americans have paid little attention to the fuel economy numbers on cars' window stickers -- or to whether their vehicles actually attained those mileage figures. But for hybrid car owners, impressive city and highway mileage numbers are often the primary selling point. When a hybrid's mileage falls short, the owner logically asks why the real-world figures don't match the ones listed by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Consumer groups and transportation policy analysts often point to the E.P.A.'s test procedure as the cause. Critics say the test cycle, a simulated route of starts and stops to replicate city and highway conditions, are hopelessly out of sync with the way Americans actually drive. As a result, E.P.A. numbers are inflated for all vehicles, and especially so for hybrids.
The E.P.A.'s city test is 11 of these simulated miles and consists of 23 stops with about 5 minutes of idling, with an average speed of 21 m.p.h. The 10-mile highway test includes no intermediate stops, minimal idling and an average speed of 48 m.p.h. on a simulated smooth and level road. Auxiliary systems like air-conditioning are not used. 
 ''E.P.A. tests don't account for variability in road conditions, ambient conditions or fuel type,'' said Jim Kliesch, research associate for the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, an advocacy group. Most Americans drive faster than 48 m.p.h. on the highway; in the city, they stop, idle and gun the engine when starting out. Air-conditioners tend to be used, for heating or cooling, year-round.
 Hybrid cars achieve their best results when they rely more on their electric motors and less on their gas engines. Rapid acceleration, use of air-conditioning and highway speeds above the limit all take their toll on economy, and often require power to be drawn from the gasoline engine, reducing fuel economy.
 If the E.P.A. process is not producing realistic numbers, why doesn't the agency adjust its calculations? It did just that in 1985, reducing the unadjusted city figures by 10 percent and the highway figures by 22 percent. (The test itself was not changed.) The E.P.A. is currently considering alternative test cycles that take into account more aggressive driving patterns, traffic congestion, cold weather and the use of air-conditioning. A spokeswoman, Tanya Meekins, said the agency planned to complete its analysis and propose changes this year.
 It is even more uncertain whether any set of numbers can precisely predict a vehicle's fuel economy -- hybrid or otherwise -- considering the variations among drivers and driving conditions.
 For committed hybrid drivers, the ultimate answer may be education. First, hybrid owners are learning that almost all vehicles fail to achieve the sticker estimates and that, say, a 20 percent shortfall from those estimates on a car promising 60 m.p.g. drops the fuel economy to 48 m.p.g. But for a conventional S.U.V., an equivalent 20 percent gap would mean mileage of 16 m.p.g. instead of the advertised 20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Electric Vehicles

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR AN ENERGY EFFICIENT ECONOMY (54%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Bradley Berman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



591 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Don't Worry About China. Learn From It. 

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE disadvantage of being 60 is that you have to get up in the middle of the night, often more than once. But a big advantage of advancing age is that you get to recognize news media silliness when it happens.
 This comes to mind in terms of the economic relationship between the United States and China. Partly because a company affiliated with the Chinese government has made a bid to buy Unocal, a large American oil company, there is a lot of talk in the news media about how powerful China has become and how weak and pitiful the United States has become. There is talk of Chinese dominance over the world economy, and, from what I can gather, a general fear that soon we will be in peonage to the Chinese. 
It all reminds me a lot of how the news media and the Central Intelligence Agency went berserk after the launching of Sputnik in 1957, and it was forecast that the Soviet Union would soon be the world's technological and economic hegemon. That talk was based on a number of faulty assumptions and a good deal of hysteria. Obviously, it did not happen.
 In the case of China, the confusion is slightly similar, but with some important differences -- and one immense fact that the news media regularly overlooks about personal responsibility.
 First, let's look at the data. But the problem is that the data are extremely confusing when it comes to reporting the real size of China's economy. On the one hand, if you take what is reported about the output of China, you get a range of estimates, but generally the gross domestic product of China in the year 2004 is estimated to be substantially less than $2 trillion. That would roughly make it one-sixth the size of the United States economy. Yet China has nearly five times the population of the United States. That means the per capita G.D.P. of China is about one-thirtieth the per capita G.D.P. of the United States, estimated to be about $40,000 at present, in rough terms.
 Obviously, this puts Chinese per capita G.D.P. far behind that of any major industrial country. But some economists, especially at the C.I.A. (which loves to puff up estimates of the power of other countries, as we have learned at great cost), say that we should count only ''purchasing power parity'' G.D.P. That means we would adjust Chinese G.D.P. and per capita G.D.P. drastically higher to account for the lower prices that the Chinese pay for things like food and medical care. (It is a mystery to me how these economists account for the fact that tens of millions of Americans have a house on a quarter-acre of land with three bedrooms and air-conditioning, a type of property that is simply not available except to maybe the richest 10,000 families in China. Maybe that should ratchet up our purchasing power parity G.D.P., but I don't think it does.)
 Consider the most optimistic C.I.A. data about China in 2004. It says China has a purchasing power parity G.D.P. of (very) approximately $8 trillion, compared with roughly $12 trillion for the United States. Again, this is for a nation with nearly five times our population. Even when using this most astoundingly optimistic estimate -- I would almost say a preposterous estimate -- China has a per capita G.D.P. of about $6,000, or about 15 percent of America's and well below that of any nation in Western Europe, or of Japan, Israel, Taiwan and many other countries. 
 In other words, the United States is vastly richer than China by any measure. This is not to boast, but it's also not to be afraid of imminent world-pauper status.
 It is true that China is industrializing at a fantastic pace. It is estimated that China has been growing at roughly 9 to 10 percent annually for several years, while the United States has been growing about 3 percent annually. Torrid growth, however, never goes on forever, in companies or in nations. (At least it never has so far.)
 But suppose that these trends continued for 25 more years. Chinese per capita G.D.P. would be about $65,000 in 2040, and American per capita G.D.P. would be about $84,000. Again, this assumes that we use the most optimistic possible estimates of current Chinese G.D.P. 
 If we used the more conservative, non-C.I.A. estimates of where Chinese per capita G.D.P. is now, in 25 years it would be about $17,500-- and this assumes the continuation of China's recent sizzling growth rates. That would put China's per capita income in 2030 at roughly one-sixth of our level. 
 In other words, it will be a long time before Chinese per capita G.D.P. matches ours. And for that to happen, it will take a previously unheard-of growth rate for an unheard-of length of time. This is a big series of ifs, especially for a country with a rapidly aging labor force and an inherent contradiction between dictatorship and free markets.
 But suppose that it does happen. Suppose that China becomes a larger economic power than the United States. Suppose, in our great-great-grandchildren's day, that the average Chinese citizen is about as rich as the average American. How would it hurt us? Why would we be worse off? If the Chinese were richer, they could buy more from us and employ more of our workers. They could buy more of our stocks. They could tour our beautiful nation more.
 The fact that our neighbors are worse off does not make us richer, and the fact that they are better off does not make us poorer.
 But another factor is even more important: personal responsibility. Americans who want to make sure they stay well off accomplish nothing by worrying about China. But we can certainly learn something from China. Individuals and nations become rich by investing in human capital -- getting a good education, learning good work habits, saving and investing prudently and living healthy lives. Any young Americans who want to keep up with the Chinese can get a good education, work hard, save as much as possible, invest prudently -- and they will be just fine now, in 25 years and in 50 years. 
 The moral here is simple: learning from our friends, the Chinese, means something. Fearing and envying them means nothing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gross Domestic Product; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%) Unocal Corp; China National Offshore Oil Corp

PERSON: Benjamin J Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



592 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER: NEWPORT, R.I.; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Mission Impossible? Living the High Life, Keeping Costs Low 

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS

 BODY:
FOR a beachy vacation spot, Newport has an unusual theme: anxiety. In Edith Wharton's day, one worried about impressing the social set. For one longtime resident, Doris Duke, shyness mutated into Paxil-worthy pathology. In ''Reversal of Fortune,'' the Hollywood adaptation of the Claus von Bulow trial, the objects of anxiety are dire: murder, justice, truth. Even those old Newport cigarette ads straddle the line between pleasure and terror, as the media critic Mark Crispin Miller once pointed out: Are those tan, rich folk laughing or screaming?
 My anxiety, however, was purely of my own making. I was planning a last-minute weekend in Newport -- land of Vanderbilt mansions and America's Cup yachts -- with a spending cap of $500. This sum was supposed to cover not only myself but also my travel companion, Jean, a fashion designer who, although laid-back and undemanding, deserved to experience a bit of the glamour for which Newport is famous. And glamour, as fashionable people know, rarely comes cheap. 
The first hurdle was housing. A bed-and-breakfast or inn would have made a perfect romantic getaway -- GoNewport.com lists dozens -- but in the high season rooms are scarce and expensive. A Web search also turned up the William Gyles Guesthouse, home of Newport's first, and only, hostel. Uneasy about taking Jean to a youth hostel but entranced by the location (downtown) and the late June rate, out of high season, ($25 a bed; total cost $53.50), I called the owner, Merrilee Zellner, who rejected my use of the word ''youth'' and described the hostel, which has only four beds, as ''more of a B&B.'' Good enough: I booked Saturday, the only night open, planning to show up in Newport on Friday and call the visitors center, which keeps a list of last-minute, potentially cut-rate vacancies. 
 Then I panicked. I reserved a room for Friday night at the Sea Whale Motel, which a friend had recommended for its proximity to popular Easton's Beach. With tax, it cost $175.10 but bought me peace of mind. 
 What we found on that Friday was a lovely little two-story, family-run motel. Every room faced Easton's Pond and Green End Pond, a habitat for all manner of wildlife, from great blue herons to joggers traversing the boundary berms. Our ground-floor room had little style but lots of space, and we left it immediately in search of lunch and Easton's Beach. We found the first at Flo's Clam Shack, a legendary bivalvery since 1936, the year fried clams were invented.
 Flo's truly was a shack, two floors of blue-painted clapboard, worn and peeling, with plastic chairs and tables in a courtyard. The ''Chowda Combo'' seemed like a good deal -- $4.25 for clam chowder, three clam cakes, and a soda or a beer -- as did the clam strip roll, which, with fries and cole slaw, was $7.75, almost three bucks less than the regular fried clam roll. Cheap, yes, but you get what you pay for: The chowder was thin, the clam cakes doughy, the fried clams lacking in clamminess. With an extra Diet Coke and a ''gourmet'' hot dog (the quotation marks are Flo's), the total was $16.42.
 Easton's Beach was across the street, but it was semideserted at low tide, so we went to the Sea Whale and changed our shoes. From there, we set off for the Cliff Walk, a 3.5-mile trail around the southern tip of Newport that would take us past some of the island's grandest Gilded Age mansions, figuring that we could gape at them without having to buy tickets.
 The walk began smoothly enough. The 150-year-old path -- damaged by decades of storms, it was restored in 1975 with funds raised by Claus von Bulow -- was lined with rose bushes, daisies and a 30-foot drop on one side, with thick hedges protecting private yards on the other. We ambled along, encountering joggers, a Florida man on vacation and Indian families taking glamour photos in front of the ''cottages.'' 
 Two miles in, however, the Cliff Walk devolved into a Cliff Scramble over rocky beaches, through waist-high reeds and ominous tunnels, past stones balanced precariously one atop the other, placed on display, it seemed, by some Newport cousin of the Blair Witch. We finally emerged onto a street near Rough Point, where 18th-century ships unloaded their cargoes of slaves and which eventually became Doris Duke's estate. The grounds brought to mind an American Wuthering Heights: the Gothic sandstone manor looked down over a rolling lawn, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, to a rocky, sea-battered gully. To the west, on enormous boulders jutting into Rhode Island Sound, a pair of fishermen were casting their lines against the setting sun.
 As Jean and I walked back to town, our anxiety grew. Downtown was at least two miles away, and the map we were using was clearly not drawn to scale. So, we trudged on, trying to stay alert to the architecture -- here a turreted castle, there a Modernist marvel -- until we arrived, exhausted, starving but without having spent a penny in hours, at Bannister's Wharf, the focus of Newport night life: restaurants, bars, blond college kids. 
 We had reservations at the casual dining room of the Clarke House, an 18th-century sea captain's home turned fancy restaurant. But looking at the menu, we saw that the entrees -- lobster rolls, cod cakes, steak frites -- were almost all at least $20. Too rich for our blood.
 Next door, however, was the Black Pearl, and across from that the lower-priced Black Pearl Patio, and next to that, the Black Pearl takeout counter, where a $3.50 bowl of thick, herb-flecked chowder kept us from fainting into the water while we tried to plan a real dinner. We wound up at Loca, a Baja-style restaurant a few wharves away. After a meal of camarones diablo, grilled fish tacos, and carnitas -- not to mention a couple of well-earned margaritas and Newport Storm ales -- our epic trudge faded into $78 oblivion, as did we the instant our $10 cab ride returned us to the Sea Whale.
 Inexplicably, Jean had scheduled our first mansion tour for 9 a.m. Groggy, we drove down Bellevue Avenue, the main mansion drag, to Rough Point, where for $25 each, Allison Roulston, a white-haired, linen-suited embodiment of Newport tradition, showed us Doris Duke's Ming vases, Flemish tapestries, Italian rococo screens imported by Stanford White and embroidered pillows (''Familiarity breeds,'' read one). At a portrait of Diane de Poitiers, Mr. Roulston noted that a nude version exists as well. ''You can Google it,'' he said, smiling. (You can, indeed.) The high point for Jean was an exhibition of Duke's clothing, from 1930's Fortuny gowns to a postwar black-lace Dior dress to the Peter Golding jeans she wore in the 1980's. Duke died in 1993.
 After a doze on Duke's lawn, it was time to learn what ''hostel'' meant in Newportese. The William Gyles House turned out to be perfectly nice, like your friend's unpretentious vacation home. We had a private room with two beds; a kitchen stocked with eggs, waffles, orange juice and coffee; maps, guidebooks and pamphlets galore. Our hostel mates were a software engineer from Hartford and an older Scottish man, not quite the boozy backpackers we had feared. Moreover, a backyard barbecue was planned for that evening. Everyone knows that free hamburgers are a time-tested antidote for angst. 
 So, too, is the beach, and after a $14.09 meal of eggs and chourico at Gary's Handy Lunch, we drove to Second Beach in nearby Middletown, where parking was a whopping $20. This mile or so of clean, dune-edged sand was crowded with young people in low-slung board shorts and small bikinis, all working on their tans, surfing or throwing footballs and Frisbees. Almost no one looked over 40, and even Jean and I, at 31, felt a little aged and unhip. We spread out our beach towels, lay down and tried to read while the wind coated our sunscreen-sticky bodies with fine sand. Less than two hours later, we left, and I felt stupid for having spent what seemed like a lot of money.
 The cure for overspending, of course, is shopping. We parked near the hostel and walked to Bellevue Avenue, where the momcentric clothing shops kept our credit cards firmly in our wallets. But at the Newport Book Store, Jean found a rare 1880 edition of ''The Republic of San Marino,'' a history of that small European republic, with a cracked spine; she got it for $20, a 50 percent discount. And at the Karen Vaughan boutique, we sifted through chunky ethnic jewelry before we discovered a shelf of glass globes, weightless and filled with crinkled gold leaf, meant to be used as oil lamps. They were $10, but we held off buying one; they looked too delicate to bring to our next destination, the Madeleine, a three-masted, 72-foot sailboat whose $30 sunset cruise, available from Classic Cruises of Newport, included free beer and champagne. For those next 90 minutes, we snuggled against the wind, rolled with the waves, clinked plastic cups of Cook's California Brut and watched the red sun sink over the horizon. Touristy, sure, but romantic nonetheless -- and maybe even glamorous.
 Back at the hostel, the barbecue was in full swing. Merrilee's friends -- neighbors, former guests and real-estate agents -- were grilling burgers and hot dogs, and had brought everything from pasta salads to Guarana, the sweet Brazilian soda. By 10 p.m., things were winding down, at which point Merrilee took us and some of her pals on a walking tour. She pointed out the International Yacht Restoration School, where experts were restoring the 1885 schooner Coronet. She put us between Sabina Doyle's and Christie's, waterside bars battling to see who has the noisiest band. And Merrilee said that the site now occupied by a video arcade, Ryan's Family Amusements, is rumored to have once upon a time been the town's biggest brothel.
 We lost Merrilee when we tried -- and failed -- to find an oyster bar (they all seem to close at 11), but as we were falling asleep, we heard her tour return. Someone was bragging about having climbed to the roof of a Victorian hotel and discovered the best view in Newport, and for a second, I was overcome with regret. Then I conked out.
 We slept in, and awoke unsure what to do. There had been so much we'd missed: the free Newport Storm brewery tour, the area wineries, the Aquidneck farmers market, an international polo match. We settled on a tour of one last mansion, the Breakers, built by Cornelius Vanderbilt II in 1895, mainly because Merrilee had discount tickets ($6 vs. $15 normally). We walked there, a 30-minute hike, and were appropriately impressed by the scale and expense of the Great Hall, the obsessive vanity of the sitz bath and the saltwater faucets. (I later learned that one sofa had cost the Vanderbilts exactly $500; given inflation, that was many times my entire weekend budget.) 
 It was getting late, we'd been out in the sun, and we hadn't eaten lunch yet. Still smarting from our failure to find oysters, we drove inland. Many seafood places moved after being priced out of the waterfront, Merrilee had told us. Her recommendation, the Atlantic Grille, was closed, and we began to despair. Our feet hurt, our stomachs were empty, and I may even have said, ''I hate Newport.''
 Then we spotted Anthony's Seafood, an unassuming fishmonger's and seafood restaurant. For $15.44, we bought a half-pound of shrimp cocktail and an order of Cajun fish and chips to go, plus a pair of oysters that we slurped down right there in the parking lot. Then we drove back to the coast, past Second Beach and its overpaying preppies, to Sachuest Point National Wildlife Refuge (free parking!), where we hurried to the water's edge and feasted on our sweet, plump shrimp and spicy fried fish, the last traces of our anxiety left somewhere across the bay, back in the town of Newport, a town I don't really hate. In fact, I may even like it.

TOTAL: $508.05

Mansion Views

WHERE TO STAY
 William Gyles Guesthouse, 16 Howard Street, Newport, (401) 369-0243; www.newporthostel.com. A bed in high season (through Labor Day weekend) is $29 a person during the week, $49 on weekends; includes a full breakfast.
 Sea Whale Motel, 150 Aquidneck Avenue., Middletown, (888) 257-4096, www.seawhale.com. Double rooms in high season (through Labor Day weekend) start at $120 on weekdays; weekends start at $155; no single supplements. 

WHERE TO EAT
 Anthony's Seafood, 963 Aquidneck Avenue, Middletown, (401) 848-5058. 
 The Black Pearl, Bannister's Wharf, Newport, (401) 846-5264, www.blackpearlnewport.com.
 Flo's Clam Shack, 4 Wave Avenue, Middletown, (401) 847-8141.
 Gary's Handy Lunch, 462 Thames Street, Newport, (401) 847-9480. 
 Loca, 109 Long Wharf, Newport, (401) 843-8300, www.locanewportri.com.

WHAT TO SEE
 Newport Bookstore, 116 Bellevue Avenue, Newport, (401) 847-3400, www.nptbooks.com. Open Monday to Saturday from midmorning to 5:30; Sunday, ''by chance or appointment.''
 Classic Cruises of Newport, Bannister's Wharf, Newport, (401) 847-0298, www.cruisenewport.com. The operator conducts tours through the first weekend of November. Day cruises are $25 a person; sunset cruises are $30. 
 The Breakers, 44 Ochre Point Avenue, Newport. Hours change seasonally; open daily from 9 to 5, through Oct. 10. Admission is $15. Information: call the Preservation Society of Newport County at (401) 847-1000, or see www.newportmansions.org.
 Rough Point Museum, Bellevue Avenue, Newport: Open Tuesday to Saturday through Nov. 5; closed during the winter. The museum holds 20 tours a day: the first at 9 a.m., the last at 3:45. Admission is $25. Information: call the Newport Restoration Foundation at (401) 849-7300, or see www.newportrestoration.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A cruise on Newport Harbor and Narragansett Bay on the Madeleine. A reminder of Newport's maritime life. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times [harbor and Chris Ramirez for The New York Times [weathervane])
 The waterfront facade of the Breakers Mansion, built by a Vanderbilt. in the late 19th century. The Forty Steps on the Cliff Walk. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)Map of Rhode Island highlighting Newport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (87%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); FASHION DESIGN (68%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); WILDLIFE (65%); MARINE MAMMALS (65%); BEACHES (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (56%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Matt Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (96%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newport (Ri); Rhode Island

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



593 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A Cinema So Indie It's 5,000 Miles Away

BYLINE: By DAVID HOCHMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IF the actor Rob Schneider ever shows up in the jungles of Taveuni, Fiji, he will undoubtedly be hailed as a Polynesian god. ''Our audience went absolutely nuts for 'The Hot Chick,''' said John Pierson, a major player in the American independent film scene who spent a year showing harebrained comedies and other escapist fare free at a ramshackle island theater roughly 5,000 miles from Hollywood. 
 Out there among the spiky coconut palms, untouched by studio test marketers or Happy Meal tie-ins, all the usual conjectures about box office patterns were like orchid petals to the wind. At Mr. Pierson's 288-seat 180 Meridian Cinema, films by Francis Ford Coppola and Martin Scorsese drew giant yawns while the Three Stooges and anything featuring 007 or a grown man in a dress, a la Mr. Schneider, had moviegoers howling with delight. 
As Mr. Pierson, an early supporter of filmmakers like Spike Lee, Michael Moore and Kevin Smith, said over lunch here recently, ''If this crowd liked a film like, say, 'Jackass' or 'Bend It Like Beckham,' the reaction was so raw and vocal, it bordered on hysteria.'' 
 The far-flung adventure of the Pierson clan -- John was joined by his wife and business partner, Janet, and their teenagers, Georgia and Wyatt, on a yearlong sabbatical from life in Garrison, N.Y. -- is the subject of a documentary, ''Reel Paradise,'' opening Aug. 17 in New York and Los Angeles. Directed by Steve James, best known as the director of the 1994 documentary ''Hoop Dreams,'' this new film chronicles the final month of an experiment in cross-cultural pollination, cinema diplomacy and family displacement. 
 Taveuni is a fragrant agricultural island of roughly 12,000 inhabitants, but Shangri-La it's not. As Dad, lanky and opinionated, battles dengue fever during a 10-movie marathon, Mom copes with break-ins at the family compound while their offspring, who have become celebrities at the island schools, are out learning Fijian swear words and getting hickeys. Picture the Osbournes in an episode of ''Survivor'' produced by the Sundance Channel. 
 ''The last thing I wanted was to make a vanity piece about how wonderful it was going to the South Pacific and showing free movies,'' said Mr. James, who was given no direction by Mr. Pierson other than to capture the earsplitting reactions inside the theater. 
 It was that wild enthusiasm that drew Mr. Pierson to Fiji in the first place. In 2000, feeling a bit weary of the indie film world, he went searching for the most remote theater imaginable to feature on ''Split Screen,'' his show about independent films for the Independent Film Channel. When he first journeyed to Taveuni, near the international date line, Mr. Pierson watched an audience go gaga over a 1941 Three Stooges short, ''Some More of Samoa,'' a politically incorrect lampoon of island culture (the natives try to boil Curly for dinner). Reminded of how magical movies can be, Mr. Pierson said he had to lease the theater for an extended run. All he needed was financial backing from the now well-heeled moviemakers he had helped in the past. 
 ''When John told me about his crazy idea, I thought, 'Great, I'll give you money,''' said Mr. Smith, who said he was indebted to Mr. Pierson for selling his first feature, ''Clerks,'' to Miramax. ''But I told him, 'Don't expect to see me there with all those bugs and dirt roads.''' 
 That a movie theater exists at all on an island with one semi-paved road and no public electricity is a story in itself. Opened in 1954 by an Indian entrepreneur (the ''Fitzcarraldo of Fiji,'' Mr. Pierson called him), the Meridian, with its crude frescoes of Mickey Mouse and Bugs Bunny and windows open to the trade winds, screened Bollywood musicals and outdated American blockbusters to the handful of Taveunians who could afford admission (the average wage is $20 a month). When the Piersons moved to the island in 2002 with a $100,000 operating budget, with three-quarters financed by backers like Mr. Smith, the Meridian had been closed for almost a year. 
 As ''Reel Paradise'' makes clear, showing free movies was merely a gateway to a larger experience for the Piersons and those they encountered. The family, tranquil as a hurricane, did not exactly blend in. In the film, Georgia, 16, continually talks back to her mother, and acid-tongued Wyatt, 13, could hold his own against Harvey Weinstein (''How many people do you think stayed awake during 'Gangs of New York?''' he barks to his father. ''About five.''). Meanwhile, the local Catholic priests insist John's movies are bringing damnation to heaven on earth. 
 As for that last complaint, Mr. Pierson said that even bad films had a positive effect on island culture. ''The same people who watch 'Bringing Down the House' and think it's a horrible racist movie owe it to themselves to watch it again with a black audience on an island in the South Pacific,'' he said. ''Queen Latifah is a large black woman in a white man's world running the show, and whether they could articulate that didn't matter. The cheers in the audience told you how it made them feel.'' 
 As Mr. James put it, ''It was like that 'Sullivan's Travels' moment where you realize for people whose lives are full of hardship -- economic and otherwise -- the movies offer a chance to be scared or thrilled or to laugh for a couple hours.'' 
 Not to mention, to let the imagination run wild. ''We were showing 'Die Another Day,' the last James Bond film, and there's an invisible car sequence,'' Mr. Pierson said, still beaming from the experience even though it's been two years since he returned and the Meridian has been closed all that time. ''The kids didn't ask, 'Do you actually have invisible cars in America?' Their big question was 'How do you keep other people from hitting you?'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, John Pierson with his son, Wyatt, his wife, Janet, and his daughter, Georgia. Their experiences running a cinema, right, in Fiji are the subject of the documentary ''Reel Paradise.'' (Photographs courtesy of Wellspring)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); TEST MARKETING (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (56%) David Hochman; Steven James; John Pierson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FIJI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Fiji; Taveuni (Fiji)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



594 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Mommy, What's That In Your Purse?

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
IT doesn't take long for ''Weeds,'' a gleefully transgressive new Showtime series, to light a fire underneath the exhausted form of the half-hour television comedy. In the opening scene of the pilot episode, we are introduced to Nancy Botwin, a recently widowed soccer mom played by Mary-Louise Parker, at a P.T.A. meeting. While she is arguing to have soda machines banned from her children's school, her peer group of despairing homemakers is quietly gossiping about the authenticity of her new designer handbag and wondering how the suddenly single mother of two has been able to maintain her standard of living.
 Cut to Scene 2, where we find a more relaxed Nancy casually trading quips, barbs and homespun wisdom with the people who make her feel most at home: a family of drug dealers who supply her with the marijuana she sells to the residents of her sleepy California suburb. 
From the first strains of its theme song, the folksinger Malvina Reynolds's anticonformity anthem ''Little Boxes,'' ''Weeds'' (which has its premiere on Aug. 7) clearly aspires to be much more than just a sitcom about pot. Sure, there are throwaway jokes about getting the munchies and the merits of smoking up before seeing ''The Passion of the Christ,'' but these are interspersed among darkly comic debates on subjects from race and class relations to adultery to cancer to the ethics of dating the handicapped. On ''Weeds,'' pot is indeed a gateway drug, one that allows its viewers into the lives of characters whose pursuits of all kinds of personal freedoms inevitably lead to deeper levels of confinement. 
 When she first conceived of ''Weeds,'' Jenji Kohan, the show's creator and executive producer, was in need of an escape route of her own. At the start of 2004, Ms. Kohan -- a former writer for comedies like ''Friends'' and ''Tracey Takes On ,'' and the daughter of Buz Kohan, a producer for ''The Carol Burnett Show'' -- had become disenchanted with her latest series, a short-lived CBS family sitcom called ''The Stones.'' When she wasn't battling the network or her fellow producers -- one of whom happened to be her brother David, the co-creator of ''Will & Grace'' -- she was watching lots and lots of ''The Shield'' on FX.
 ''I loved how suave the characters were, and the nebulous morality,'' Ms. Kohan recalled over a corned-beef sandwich at Canter's delicatessen in Los Angeles. ''I wanted to play in that arena, too. It was just a matter of finding a subject.'' Taking note of the special place that marijuana use occupied in the American consciousness, as a universal act of rebellion that transcended ethnic and economic boundaries, Ms. Kohan realized she had discovered her muse. ''This was really the chance to write sophisticated, dirty, fun stuff,'' she said, ''about the kinds of characters I like to watch: really flawed, complicated people.''
 It's hard to imagine a TV protagonist more flawed than Nancy, the pot-pushing anti-heroine of ''Weeds,'' a character so reprehensible that not even the actress who portrays her will stick up for her. ''She's kind of a loser,'' Ms. Parker said ''She's not virtuous, and she's not Robin Hood. She just wants to keep her housekeeper, go to the nice grocery and keep buying her $4 smoothies.''
 And yet, Nancy manages to elicit an audience's sympathy: she protects and provides for her two sons, mourns for her husband and defends her turf from less reputable dealers who see no harm in selling their wares to schoolchildren. Her decision to trade in drugs is an unforgivable one, but one that shows just how much she's willing to risk to keep her life and her family in order. ''Her intentions are good, and she's empowered because it's something she's good at,'' Ms. Kohan said. ''This is her ticket to independence, so she doesn't end up the oldest Gap employee in America.''
 Nancy also benefits by comparison with the judgment-impaired company she keeps, particularly her neighbor Celia, an icy, frustrated perfectionist played with delectable contempt by Elizabeth Perkins, who openly refers to her overweight daughter as ''Isa-belly,'' and slips laxatives into her child's hidden candy stash. ''She has no relationship to pot,'' Ms. Perkins said of her role. '' She doesn't use it or sell it, but she may be the most screwed-up character of them all. Somebody has to set the bar.''
 As a series whose comedic tone is more acerbic than rattlesnake venom, ''Weeds'' sometimes struggled in its production process to find just how high that bar could be set. ''There are kids on the show,'' said Kevin Nealon, who plays Nancy's stoner accountant, Doug, ''and during our table reads for certain scenes, they had to leave the room. For certain scenes, I had to leave the room, too.''
 Ms. Parker said she had complained to the show's producers about dialogue that she felt went too far over the line; she was particularly bothered by a scene in which Mr. Nealon's character says that a local medicinal marijuana clinic is better than Amsterdam ''because you don't have to visit the Anne Frank house and pretend to be all sad.''
 Ms. Perkins also had difficulty with a sequence in which Celia declares, in private, that she wishes she'd aborted her daughter. ''I went to Jenji,'' Ms. Perkins recalled, ''and I said, 'Am I coming off too mean?' And she said: 'Why? You're not saying it to her face.' And I thought: 'She's right. This is her inner moment -- this is how she really feels.'''
 Though both of these offending items ultimately remained in the show, the producers were willing to compromise with the actresses on other occasions. ''It's never our intention to sit here and say, 'Tee-hee, what can we get away with?''' Ms. Kohan said. ''We work through it.''
 Given her show's strong female leads Ms. Kohan acknowledged that ''Weeds'' would inevitably draw comparisons to a certain runaway hit network program about troubled women who live in a seemingly idyllic neighborhood. ''I like 'Desperate Housewives,''' she said, ''but I don't think those are modern women. It's the 50's.'' Ms. Perkins agreed that there were crucial differences between the women of ''Weeds'' and the women of ''Desperate Housewives'': ''They're fake,'' she said. ''We're real women living in a fake world.''
 The larger concern to Ms. Kohan is that ''Weeds'' will be misconstrued as being pro-marijuana although it actually takes no stance on the drug one way or the other. ''I'm not comfortable saying we're here to endorse pot,'' she said. ''If it became the show that's trying to convince people to smoke pot, I think it defeats all the work we've done. But I absolutely don't intend to vilify it, either. It's not about the evils of the demon weed.''
 Nor does Ms. Kohan want viewers to conclude that she is a pot smoker herself. For one thing, she is nine months pregnant with her third child. (''I got knocked up and picked up at the same time,'' she joked.) And the effects of marijuana, she said, simply don't agree with her temperament. ''It's not my drug. I'm too much of a control freak to enjoy it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary-Louise Parker, above at left, as Nancy with Tonye Patano, center, and Romany Malco in ''Weeds''
left, Elizabeth Perkins as Celia, an icy perfectionist. (Photo by Peter Iovino/Showtime)
 (Photo by Darren Michaels/Showtime)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CANNABIS (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); ETHICS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (67%); LIVING STANDARDS (55%) Television; Marijuana

PERSON: Dave Itzkoff; Mary-Louise Parker

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



595 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Diane-Marie Johnston, Stephen Spruiell

 BODY:
Diane-Marie Johnston, a daughter of Diane and Richard Johnston Jr. of Alexandria, Va., was married yesterday to Stephen Hill Spruiell, a son of Suzanne and David Spruiell of Arlington, Tex. The Rev. 
Dennis Kleinmann, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Mary Catholic Church in Alexandria.
 The bride, 25, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a voice-over actress for television and radio commercials and a member of Partial Comfort Productions, a theater company in New York. She graduated from the University of Virginia. 
 The bride's parents are consultants in Alexandria; they provide advice on investment and trade to American companies doing business in China. Her father was until 1993 the principal deputy assistant secretary for international economic policy at the Commerce Department in Washington, and her mother was a Foreign Service officer at the embassies in Beijing and Taiwan. 
 The bridegroom, also 25, is an editorial associate in the New York office of National Review, writing about the news media and other topics. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma and received a master's in public affairs at the University of Texas. 
 His mother retired as a librarian at Wood Elementary School and Young Junior High School, both in Arlington. She is a sales representative for publishers of educational nonfiction. His father is an advertising design consultant in Arlington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); RELIGION (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); THEATER (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (65%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (69%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



596 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: All Worked Up and Wondering Why

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
THE squabble that dominated last week's union convention in Chicago might have seemed like a quaint reminder of a time when big labor really mattered. As union leaders traded insults about who had workers' interests at heart, three of the nation's biggest unions split from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., claiming that they had fresher ideas for halting organized labor's long decline.
 Outside the meeting hall, though, it was not clear that American workers were particularly unhappy. Since union rolls began shrinking in the 1950's, the income of the typical household has more than doubled, even after inflation is taken into account. Luxuries once restricted to the rich -- cross-country airplane travel, home movies, a bedroom for every child -- are working-class staples. Despite intense efforts by unions, voters have elected Republicans rather than the labor-friendly Democrats to run the White House, the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
Yet for all the ways that unions have moved to the periphery of American society, the Chicago schism might not be as removed from most people's lives as it seemed last week. The fight, in fact, revolved around a question that could become the central economic issue of the coming decade: can most Americans expect to get a raise anytime soon? Put another way, are unions more important to increasing pay than they have seemed for the last few decades?
 The income gains of the last quarter-century are a result not of steady gains in hourly pay but of two forces almost certain not to be repeated. Women have entered the workforce in large numbers, increasing the total number of hours that families work and helping to make up for decades of stagnating wages. And a giant financial bubble, the kind that appears about as often as Halley's Comet, created so many jobs and so much demand for workers for a few years that nearly everyone received a nice pay increase.
 Since that bubble burst, the wages of most workers -- those in the bottom 60 percent of earners, roughly -- have done little better than inflation. The late 1990's look ever more like an anomaly, and it is not clear what besides a bubble can produce pay gains for typical families in today's automated, globalized economy, where unions have little presence.
 ''It's going to be hard,'' Frederick W. Smith, the chief executive of FedEx, said, ''to have significant improvement in overall wages.''
 Against this backdrop of conflicting trends -- living standards on the rise even as hourly pay has been essentially stuck -- the A.F.L.-C.I.O. broke into two rival groups. Like most breakups, this one had many causes, including personality clashes and individual ambitions.
 At its core, though, was a belief by the leaders of the splinter group that the only solution to the wage problem is to enroll more workers in unions, giving them the power to bargain collectively for higher wages. Nothing else -- not money to retrain laid-off workers, not political donations to elect labor-friendly candidates -- has much of a chance unless unions get bigger, the leaders say.
 ''We are in the midst of the most rapid transformative moment in economic history, and workers are suffering,'' said Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union. ''When you're going down a road and you know where it ends, you have to get off that road and go in a different direction where there is hope.''
 The unions that remain under the old umbrella counter that they, too, believe in signing up new workers and that their recent efforts to do so have kept membership losses, many caused by factory closings, from being even worse. To lift workers' pay, A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials say, unions must also fight to increase the minimum wage, steer the course of globalization and force anti-union employers to allow membership drives.
 ''It's not just a matter of organizing workers,'' said Ron Blackwell, the group's chief economist. ''You have to change these policies.''
 Unions have been railing against worker suffering for decades. But it has been a hard case to make when most workers see their lives as getting better. Most Americans say that they live better than their parents did and that their children will live better still. And no wonder: crime has plummeted, people are living longer, other countries are emulating the American economic model and household incomes have kept rising.
 But their continued climb has disguised a fundamental change in the way the economy works. For decades leading up to the 1970's, workers' paychecks grew fatter whenever businesses became more efficient. If a metal factory figured out how to make 11 ball bearings each second instead of 10, its employees would get a raise. 
 In the last 30 years, however, productivity has come unhinged from wages, rising much faster than hourly pay has. The reason, according to breakaway unions, is that organized labor has become so weak that employers can often ignore their workers' requests. Just one out of eight workers belongs to a union today, down from one in four in 1979 and one in three in the 1950's.
 The productivity gains that do still flow to workers are also not trickling as far as they did. Highly educated workers who can use technology to become more efficient are still receiving good raises. Others, replaceable by machine or someone in Guangdong Province, are faring less well.
 Unions do not offer the only potential solutions, certainly. If employers or the government trained workers or helped more teenagers graduate from college, for example, the economy might be able to create a new batch of high-paying jobs.
 ''We're likely to see continued gains to the returns of high skills,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business School and an adviser to President Bush during his first term. ''For low-skilled workers, we have to ask ourselves: Are we doing enough for these people to acquire new skills?''
 So far, though, these efforts have had about as much success as most union organizing drives. The proof is in the paychecks. They are only marginally higher than they were five years ago for rank-and-file workers, according to inflation-adjusted numbers from the Labor Department, even though the economy has grown significantly.
 This might be the nub of what Mr. Stern has called an ''enormous opportunity'' for organized labor. The income boost that women have given families cannot happen again in quite the same way. Families do not have another worker in reserve who can make up for weak pay increases by entering the labor force. 
 There is tentative evidence that Americans are growing restless. In recent months, about 60 percent of poll respondents have described the country as being on the wrong track, a level that has almost never been reached since 1995. 
 None of this will necessarily help unions escape something that has begun to resemble a death spiral. In a global economy, where workers worry about losing their jobs overseas, unionizing them is not easy. But it is a good bet that unless wages reverse course soon, their stagnation will create political and economic tumult that reaches well beyond the conference in Chicago.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (60%) Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Collective Bargaining

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (60%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



597 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: The China Debate

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Who's Afraid of China Inc.?'' (July 24), about the debate over the bid by Cnooc, the Chinese oil company, for Unocal:
Pessimist hawks may use cold-war rhetoric decrying China as a Communist dictatorship, and globalization optimists may stress the win-win economics of global trade. The problem is that both positions are grounded in a false premise. 
 The vision of the global economy as a constantly growing pie is a fantasy, certainly with regard to limited natural resources like oil. If our nations persist in the delusion that a fairly managed global economy should always yield good results -- and that when it does not, it may be because the other guy is impinging on our national interests -- we will keep walking the path of violent national conflicts so familiar from the 20th century. 
 We must honestly face the limits of our planet's resources and realize that peaceful solutions that protect the futures of all nations will inevitably compromise the goals of corporate profit maximization and military nationalism. 
Joshua Goldstein
Los Angeles, July 24

The writer is an assistant professor of history at the University of Southern California

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HISTORY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WRITERS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TRENDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%) Unocal Corp ; China National Offshore Oil Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: Joshua Goldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



598 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Guardian Angels Get Greenport's Blessing

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

DATELINE: Greenport 

 BODY:
CAUGHT somewhere between gentrification, illegal immigration and its own wide-open Wild East past, the Village of Greenport is calling in Curtis Sliwa and the Guardian Angels to help restore order to its streets. 
 The mayor, David E. Kapell, who proposed inviting Mr. Sliwa's group, said the village's chronic problems with street-level drug dealing, public drunkenness and unruly behavior appeared to be worsening. The village, which unlike most of the North Fork is economically, racially and culturally mixed, is home to 2,100 year-round residents and an unknown number of illegal immigrants.
Greenport, Mr. Kapell said, would address its problems in a novel way by setting up patrols of local volunteers trained by the Guardian Angels to assist the Southold Town Police Department, which patrols the village. 
 ''This is not about the police,'' said Mr. Kapell, who led a successful campaign in 1994 to do away with the village's own police department, which had been discredited by scandal. ''You only call the police when someone has broken the law. We're trying to get people not to break the law. That's the whole point.''
 Carlisle Cochran Jr., the chief of the Southold police, said his force of 48 officers had stepped up patrols in Greenport and had created a new patrol sector for the village alone. But he said he had no objection to more eyes and ears. ''We look forward to working with this group,'' he said. 
 Though Chief Cochran said he had not seen any significant increase in crime in Greenport over the last few years, Mr. Kapell said he had been getting more complaints from residents lately about public order. 
 The Guardian Angels, founded by Mr. Sliwa 26 years ago, originally to patrol New York City subways and streets, has about 5,000 members, with chapters in the United States and abroad. Greenport will be its first training project on Long Island.
 Mr. Kapell said he planned to take the training himself, along with at least 30 other residents in the first wave of volunteers. The course, which takes 100 hours spread over three months, will be conducted in a former village recreation center. 
 Mr. Sliwa, who is now a talk-radio personality in New York City, estimated that 8 people from the first 30 volunteers would make it all the way through the course and get to wear the group's signature red berets and black sateen jackets. ''They will be capable of patrolling anywhere in the world,'' he said.
 The Greenport volunteers, who will carry radios or cellphones but no weapons, will learn to tackle street crime in the most direct way possible: gang-tackling drug dealers, drunken ramblers and other troublemakers and restraining them until the police arrive, if that's what it takes.
 But mostly, Mr. Kapell and others hope and Mr. Sliwa promises, that won't be necessary -- they say that the mere presence of patrols and the readiness of volunteers to go to trouble spots, report crimes and testify in court will restore the peace. As Mr. Sliwa puts it, people who are up to no good don't want to hang around with ''rats and snitches.''
 Some business owners in Greenport, which depends heavily on tourism, likened calling in the Guardian Angels to yelling ''Shark!'' at the beach. ''If I were coming to a quiet fishing village and suddenly I heard that the Guardian Angels were there, I would think twice about staying or buying,'' said Leueen Miller, who runs the Harbor Knoll Bed and Breakfast. 
 Mrs. Miller said she thought Mr. Kapell's plan, approved unanimously by village trustees on July 21, was an overreaction. ''I just would have thought there would have been less attention-getting methods,'' she said. ''The number of people the police have to target can't be more than 50.''
 But Mr. Kapell, who owns a real estate business in the village, said conventional methods had failed. ''Should we wait until somebody is hurt or another kid is addicted?'' he said. ''What's more important, somebody's cash register or somebody's kid? I will go with the kid anytime. As to property values, that's only a problem if you are thinking of selling your house, and I'm not.'' 
 Mr. Sliwa, who has visited Greenport twice and spoke at a July 19 public hearing that attracted about 200 residents, said some merchants were choosing to overlook drug dealing and lawlessness occurring on streets just out of view of visitors. Greenport, he said, fit a pattern of small towns and villages that became known as havens for drug dealers and buyers because they are dependent on outside police forces.
 ''It looks like 'Leave It to Beaver' land, with people walking around in their designer outfits,'' Mr. Sliwa said. ''But some of the people attracted into the community are not there to go to Ben & Jerry's. They are there to buy drugs.'' The village's wide dimly lighted side streets, he said, lend themselves to illicit curbside trade.
 Residents say the village's trouble spots are well known. They include the parking lot outside the Mr. Roberts Convenience Food Store on the corner of Front and Third Streets, and a village basketball court in a small park on Third Street just north of Front Street. 
 ''I have a 14-year-old son who can't go to the park because there is drug activity there,'' said Marlene Parrish, a lifelong Greenport resident. ''But there's nothing for these kids to do out here. I'm for the Guardian Angels, but my thing is, why can't we get a recreation center for our youths?''
 Mr. Kapell agreed that a new center was needed but said it would be expensive. The Guardian Angel training and patrols come at no cost to the village. 
 On a recent Saturday evening, some beer drinking had already begun in the parking lot of the Mr. Roberts store. A town police car parked across the street had no one inside. Groups of young men gathered in the small park a short distance away. 
 Ben Heins, the owner of Flying Cow Taxi and a lieutenant in the Greenport Fire Department, said the trouble usually came in the early morning, when ''groups of random, wandering people'' sometimes milled about. 
 ''It's not that we have a crime epidemic out here,'' said Mr. Heins, who said he would train to become a Guardian Angel. ''A lot of it is just that nobody has any fear if they try anything.''
 The Guardian Angels, known mostly for their volunteer patrols in urban areas, have expanded into small towns in recent years. James Ezzo Jr. of Sussex, N.J., who helped start a Guardian Angel patrol in February in his borough of 2,145 residents, called it a success. ''It absolutely quieted things down,'' he said. About a dozen of the 20 residents who completed the Guardian Angel training remained active, he added.
 Jon Cooper of Lloyd Neck, a member of the Suffolk County Legislature, said he planned to hold a community meeting to discuss Guardian Angel patrols for Huntington Station and would ask Mr. Sliwa to attend. He said he had previously shied away from the idea out of fear it would stigmatize that community, which is in his legislative district. 
 Mr. Cooper has also proposed the use of video surveillance cameras on public streets in high-crime areas of Suffolk. Some local businesses in Huntington Station already have them. 
 But there are none in Greenport, and Mr. Kapell wants it to stay that way. ''Cameras are, in my view, a violation of privacy rights, and I don't favor them,'' he said. ''It's a lot different than a neighbor on the street.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Guardian Angels plan to train an initial group of at least 30 volunteers to patrol Greenport's streets. (Photo by Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times)
 Mayor David E. Kapell plans to take the Angels' training course. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VOLUNTEERS (88%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Crime and Criminals; Drug Abuse and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN ANGELS (94%) Guardian Angels

PERSON: David E (Mayor) Kapell; Carlisle Jr (Police Chief) Cochran; John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Greenport (NY); Southold (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



599 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Bohemian Rhapsody

BYLINE: By Richard Florida and Elizabeth Currid. 
Richard Florida, a public policy professor at George Mason University, is the author of ''The Flight of the Creative Class: The New Global Competition for Talent.'' Elizabeth Currid is a doctoral student in urban planning at Columbia University.

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS already know that their city is a global center for everything from finance and business to arts and culture. But even the most self-assured resident would likely be astounded by the extraordinary magnitude of the greater New York regional economy.
 The metropolitan area alone is the 16th-largest economy in the world; its annual economic output of nearly $500 billion puts it ahead of Russia and nearly on par with Brazil. The region as a whole -- including Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Westchester and parts of New Jersey and Connecticut -- has an output of nearly $900 billion annually, making it the seventh-largest economy in the world, behind China and bigger than Canada or India. 
For the better part of the last century, New York has been the location of choice for the talented, innovative and entrepreneurial members of what we call a global ''creative class'' -- those who use their minds and creativity in their daily working lives. With almost three million creative-sector employees, about a third of its work force, the metropolitan region boasts the greatest number of creative-class workers in the world. 
 New York City's economy is increasingly powered by these creative industries. Today, it has an even greater competitive advantage in fields like fashion design, art and music than it does in financial services and banking. The city's economy is 16 times more concentrated in fashion designers, five times more concentrated in fine artists and four to six times more concentrated in musical occupations, film and video editors and producers and directors compared with all other United States metropolitan economies as a whole. And as economists know, without a healthy New York City, the suburbs of Westchester and Long Island would falter too.
 But recent trends indicate that New York's position at the forefront of the creative economy may face considerable challenge. For starters, foreign cities are stepping up their competition for talented and creative people. Cities like London, Shanghai and Sydney are increasing their arts and cultural spending, research and development activities and university investments. Famous as New York may be for its arts and culture, it ranks 11th in the world, behind Amsterdam and London, on our global Bohemian Index, which measures the proportion of artistically creative people, like working musicians, dancers, writers and designers in a city. 
 New York is also hampered by a series of misguided national policies. Today, tough visa requirements and an increasingly anti-immigration culture are stifling the flow of foreign talent. Columbia University, for example, saw an almost 12 percent decline in international engineering students and a nearly 18 percent decline in international medical students from 2003 to 2004. 
 Creative people want -- and need -- to be around other creative people, and that's something the density of New York has long been able to provide. But this clustering has been weakened by the lack of affordable housing in Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn, fueling emigration by creative people. Some of these people are moving to the outer boroughs, New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester. But many are moving out altogether, attracted by burgeoning creative climates and less expensive housing in other parts of the country.
 The New York region, which has long paid more in taxes than it receives in federal spending, stands to lose a great deal as the Bush administration slashes the existing meager support for urban programs like work-force development, low-income housing, community development grants and support for arts and culture. These and other federal cutbacks hurt New York's ability to generate affordable housing, upgrade its subway and support its arts and creative environment, putting further pressure on the city and region. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg does little to help things, having spent considerable energy and political capital on big-ticket items like the failed West Side stadium plan and efforts to attract the 2012 Olympics. The city would be far better served with smaller scale neighborhood and community-level efforts to ensure affordable housing and work space for artists, immigrants and entrepreneurs, to upgrade the city's open space in combination with more public art and to improve transportation.
 To remain a stronghold in the global creative economy, New York must strive to rejuvenate the creative dynamism that has always been at the heart of its artistic, cultural and economic success. By strengthening the practices that have brought it fortune and growth, New York will continue to be a truly great center of the global creative economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TRENDS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FASHION DESIGN (70%); MUSIC (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); DANCERS (64%); WRITERS (64%); REFUGEES (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Labor; Culture; Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Labor

PERSON: Richard (Prof) Florida; Elizabeth Currid

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); EAST CHINA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005



600 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Making a Case for More Rental Units 

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
THE idea that moving to Long Island means residing in a house on a plot of land with a backyard, a garage and a mailbox at the end of the driveway may have already become a nostalgic notion.
 ''It's an increasing American fallacy that everyone has to have their own home,'' said Lee E. Koppelman, the chairman of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, which presented a draft of a report on Long Island housing on July 21. ''What we need is a balanced inventory. If you lived in Manhattan, you wouldn't think about owning your own house.'' 
One of the major problems in Long Island's housing market, Mr. Koppelman said, is that there aren't enough affordable rental units. As a result, the number of illegal apartments continues to soar, as people find their own solutions to astronomical home prices and high taxes.
 The situation is most obvious on the East End of Long Island, where middle- and low-income residents can no longer afford to buy a home or pay the expenses and taxes on a home. The median price for a home in East Hampton as of July, for instance, was $795,000, more than double the median in 2001 and a 19 percent increase over last year, according to the Suffolk Research Service of Hampton Bays, which tracks East End real estate transfer data. 
 People who once rented out ramshackle homes to renters receiving welfare subsidies now find they can sell their homes, situated on what is now very desirable real estate, for $600,000 and more, said Maureen Murphy, the director of the East Hampton Housing Authority. ''I can't tell you how many calls I get a week saying, 'My landlord is selling and I have nowhere to go,''' she said. 
 But East Hampton has taken steps to address the problem that might provide insights to other Long Island communities trying to provide housing that is affordable to single people, young families and the elderly.
 Its housing authority was created in 1983 after state legislation granted the town funds to alleviate some of its housing problems. In 1993, the town opened its first rental complex, Avallone, in Montauk.
 The complex has 17 mostly one-bedroom units in a building that was once a World War II army barracks and had been donated to the town. Nine apartments are subsidized for welfare tenants, and the other eight have income restrictions. Tenants can earn up to 50 percent of the area's median income; this works out to $31,100 for a single person. Tenants pay 30 percent of their annual income -- a different amount for each apartment -- to reside there. 
 The housing authority has built or worked with nonprofit housing organizations to build four more rental complexes and has another in the planning stages.
 In 1993, using federal tax credits for investors who help to finance public housing projects, Ms. Murphy said, investors contributed $4.3 million in construction costs to build the Accabonac apartment complex. 
 The plan was opposed at first by the local community, she said. Neighbors of the complex of 40 apartments in 10 buildings were concerned about losing their horse trails and living near a low-income development. But the project went ahead and opened in 1999. 
 ''All of the tenants work, except for the seniors,'' Ms. Murphy said. ''Everybody has a car, but you won't see any cars here during the day. It's just a normal community.''
 The proportion of residents in the town of East Hampton who are 65 and older, 16.6 percent, is one of the highest in Suffolk County, according to a draft of the regional planning board's report.
 The housing authority has one 40-unit complex called Windmill Village, near the Accabonac complex, that is restricted to elderly people living on a low income. It is building another, Windmill II, with 47 apartments, to help find homes for the increasing elderly population. 
 Suffolk County has been purchasing land to use for housing developments of attached homes that include rental apartments.
 In Yaphank, the report notes, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, has proposed a development on county-owned land that would have up to 1,000 residential units of ''employer-assisted housing,'' referring to a housing assistance program that combines employer contributions with state and federal funds.
 ''Yaphank could include rentals,'' Mr. Levy said after the planning board presented its report. ''It could include studios, one-bedrooms, two-bedrooms, for younger couples or singles.''
 The need for such apartments with rents of $500 to $1,000, the planning board reports, is great.
 ''There's no place to save for a down payment on a house,'' said Jim Morgo, the county's commissioner of economic development and work force housing. There are not enough entry-level rentals on Long Island or elsewhere in the metro area, he said. 
 One development to address the need is Bridgehampton Mews in the wealthy East End community of Bridgehampton. The development, which is under construction, will have eight owner-occupied homes, and four will have legal apartments. The apartments will provide additional rental income to home buyers, who are to pay around $185,000 or $190,000 after receiving subsidies. 
 Another similar development is planned in Southold. Called Kairos Village, it will have 19 owner-occupied units. Eight units will have attached apartments, where the tenants are to be drawn from a list of approved candidates and the rents will be affordable, as spelled out in the home buyer's purchase agreement. 
 The Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit group based in Hauppauge that works with government agencies to finance housing developments and help home buyers secure financing, is a partner in the Bridgehampton and Southold developments.
 In 1993, the organization created a similar community in the town of Islip called Brookside Estates with four duplexes, of two two-family homes each. The homes sold for under $117,000 at the time. The rentals were restricted to low-income elderly tenants, selected from a list approved by the housing partnership. 
 ''There is a very large waiting list for affordable low-income rentals,'' said Peter Elkowitz, the president of the Long Island Housing Partnership. ''This was a way we could create those rentals by having a homeowner living in the home and to have an apartment for a low-income seniors.''
 The planning board's housing report came as little surprise to those working with middle- and lower-income Long Islanders seeking places to live. Mr. Koppelman estimates there are more than 100,000 illegal apartments on Long Island. 
 Towns and villages have to change their zoning codes to start regulating apartments that are illegal, said Marianne Garvin, the executive vice president of the Community Development Corporation of Long Island.
 ''It is a public policy issue,'' Ms. Garvin said. ''The folks that have the authority to put some changes in place with the zoning code really need to address it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: RENTALS IN THE HAMPTONS -- Maureen Murphy, director of the East Hampton Housing Authority, at Accabonac apartments, a low-income complex that opened in 1999. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); ARMIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Law and Legislation; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Regional Planning Board 

PERSON: Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) East Hampton (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

 
