

201 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

CANADIAN DAY TRIPS -- VIA Rail, the Canadian passenger train system, wants to encourage day trips along its Quebec City-Windsor, Ontario, corridor. To do so, it is selling economy-class tickets at half price for Saturday travel between certain pairs of cities. If the regular one-way fare is $70 (Canadian) or less, the half-price offer applies. Included city pairs are Montreal-Quebec City, Montreal-Ottawa, Montreal-Kingston, Toronto-Kingston and Toronto-Niagara Falls. Travel time between these cities is generally under three hours one way. The discount can be used with VIA Rail's Kids Travel Free program, which provides an economy-class ticket for each child 11 or under traveling with an adult. The offer is good through Oct. 2. Information: (888) 842-7245 or on the Web at www.viarail.ca/offers.

A FARE RIGHT THERE -- Elite Island Resorts, which has nine resorts in the Caribbean, will make finding an air fare easier for its guests by including a $199 round-trip air fare on five-night stays. The deadline to book is Nov. 15, and the stay must be completed by Dec. 20. The fare is good from most East Coast cities on midweek departures. Resorts are located on Antigua (St. James's Club, Grand Pineapple Beach, Galley Bay and Royal Antiguan), St. Lucia (St. James's Club, Morgan Bay and Windjammer Landing Villa), the Grenadines (Palm Island Resort) and Tortola (Long Bay Beach Resort and Villas). Rates begin at $824 a person, double occupancy, at the Royal Antiguan, and they include air fare, five nights' accommodations, all meals and drinks, nonmotorized water sports (except at Long Bay Beach), and resort taxes, tips and service charges. Information: (877) 675-5054 (ask for promotion code AM199) or www.eliteislandresorts.com.

HELLO, CONRAD -- A new hotel in the Conrad chain, a luxury branch of Hilton, opened July 1 in Miami. A grand-opening rate of $100 a night (plus tax) will be available through Sept. 12. The hotel has 203 rooms featuring two phone lines, a separate bathtub and shower, personalized stationery and a DVD player. A rooftop pool is in an adjacent building, and amenities include a spa and fitness center. The Conrad Miami is at 1395 Brickell Avenue in the city's financial district. For information, call (800) 445-8667 or visit www.conradhotels.com.

AT THE STARTING GATE -- A 146-room Courtyard by Marriott opened July 1 in Saratoga Springs in upstate New York, and through July 23, introductory rates will be $164 midweek and $174 weekends, taxes and tips extra. The good news is that the offer coincides with the New York City Ballet and Lake George Opera summer seasons. The bad news: Saratoga Race Course opens July 28. The hotel has an indoor pool and a 24-hour convenience store; rooms have two phone lines. For information, call (518) 226-0538 or visit www.courtyardsaratoga.com. JOSEPH SIANO


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); RESORTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL AMENITIES (85%); CITIES (78%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); SPORTS (70%); BEACHES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); LAKES (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (62%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (56%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (62%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

PERSON: Joseph Siano

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (93%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



202 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: The Latest Tagger To Be Tagged For Success

BYLINE: By TESSA DeCARLO. 
Tessa DeCarlo is an art writer based in Northern California.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
GRAFFITI has long entranced the art world, but it seldom survives being brought indoors. Seen on clean white walls, tags and throw-ups tend to look diminished rather than elevated, their grit and defiance drained away by institutional approval.
 A rare exception is the work of Barry McGee, a notorious tagger who's also a trained artist. By combining exceptional talent and canny contrariness, Mr. McGee manages to bring graffiti into the gallery without undermining its authenticity, or his own. 
 A San Francisco native who has exhibited in New York, Los Angeles and Milan as well as extensively in his hometown, Mr. McGee recently opened a one-man show at Brandeis University's Rose Art Museum in Waltham, Mass., his first solo museum exhibition on the East Coast. It's an expansive, noisy installation that includes a five-foot tower of 49 chattering television sets; kinetic sculptures; clusters of framed drawings and painted bottles featuring Mr. McGee's signature cartoons of grizzled, sad-eyed men; and a smoking Ford Econoline van dropped upside down in a dumpster outside the museum's front door.
 There are festoons of television wires, walls covered in rusted metal and plenty of graffiti, including ''Reagan Youth'' spray-painted across a large caricature of the current president. More graffiti appears in the artist's book that has been issued as part of the show, which runs through July 25.
 The exhibition deftly evokes the grimy context that helps make graffiti so compelling, but its arrangement of objects and images is unabashedly sophisticated. ''This show has an incredible rhythm, with some spaces very sparse and others very dense,'' said Raphaela Platow, the Rose's curator. ''There's real artistry to what he does. He pulls it all together in an amazing way.''
 Mr. McGee, 38, is one of four children of a Chinese-American secretary and an Irish-American car-body repairman. Twenty years ago a friend introduced him to graffiti and he began tagging all over San Francisco with the name Twist. He quickly became famous within the subculture for his innovative combinations of text and image and his artfully shaded spray-paint renderings of down-and-outers and giant screws. 
 Graffiti appeals to him because it is both transgressive and populist, exhibitionistic and anonymous. ''You're all over the place, but no one knows who you are,'' said Mr. McGee, a tall, slender man who acts and dresses more like an awkward teenager than the successful artist he has become. ''Some people are enraged and some people are applauding. If there were a mission statement for graffiti, that would be it.''
 But tagging is no way to earn a living, so he enrolled in the San Francisco Art Institute, where he earned a bachelor of fine arts in printmaking in 1991. ''I wasn't trying to turn graffiti into an art form,'' he said during a recent interview here. ''I just wanted to learn about art. I wanted to learn this game.'' As for his fellow graffitists, ''I don't think they even knew I was going to art school.''
 Early on he was championed by San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, where he has shown many times. He will be included in ''Beautiful Losers,'' a show there celebrating skateboard culture that opens on Saturday.
 ''His work is great, and I'm surprised at how he's been able to keep it vital and unpredictable,'' said the center's visual arts curator, Rene de Guzman. ''It hasn't softened -- in fact, it's getting more edgy.''
 Mr. de Guzman points to the installation Mr. McGee did with the tagger Josh Lazcano for the center's 10th-anniversary show last fall. They piled VCR's and TV sets inside a graffiti-covered truck arranged to look as if it had crashed near the center's front door. Despite a sign reading ''Don't Call 911 -- This Is a Work of Art,'' the volume of anxious calls led the police to demand the truck's removal.
 The incident fits nicely into the arc of Mr. McGee's career, which has been made by breaking the rules. Although he is shown by important dealers, he has taken the unusual step of shunning gallery representation, whereby a gallery owner promotes an artist in exchange for exclusive rights to sell his work. Instead, Mr. McGee calls himself ''a free agent'' and often sells his work through nonprofit and artist-run galleries. He is also known for doing his installations at the last minute, allowing curators little control.
 ''He has kept that outlaw -- not only sensibility, but also way of relating to a museum, which can be tremendously challenging,'' Ms. Platow said. ''I knew in my heart that I could rely on him. Everyone else went a little crazy. Now we laugh about it.''
 Mr. McGee said: ''I just try to get away with as much as I can. I don't think that's very radical in the art world. It seems pretty tame compared to hanging off a rooftop or a freeway sign.''
 Now that he's a father -- Mr. McGee's wife, the artist Margaret Kilgallen, died of breast cancer in 2001 just a few weeks after giving birth to their daughter, Asha -- he no longer takes those kinds of risks for graffiti. But he is not entirely out of the game. ''There are a couple of places I like to keep up on,'' he said, although these days ''my graffiti is so anonymous, no one could know who's doing it.''
 Mr. McGee's continued involvement has kept his street credibility alive. ''He's the icon, the godfather,'' said Shawn Whisenant, 22, an aspiring artist known as AKO who is currently in jail in nearby Napa on felony graffiti charges. ''You can still walk around San Francisco and see little 'Twist' things that he does. It's not like he's turned his back on the culture.''
 Nor does Mr. Whisenant fault his idol for going legit. ''It's great that he's expanded into the art world,'' he said. ''Because who really wants to be a 40-year-old guy running around the streets?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barry McGee, also known as the graffiti artist Twist, is showing sculptures inside and outside the Rose Art Museum at Brandeis University. (Photographs by Dan Soper) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); VANDALISM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%) Art; Graffiti; Shows (Exhibits)

ORGANIZATION: Brandeis University; Rose Art Museum (Waltham, Mass) 

PERSON: Barry Mcgee; Tessa Decarlo; Raphaela Platow

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



203 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Labor Federation Looks Beyond Unions for Supporters

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: SEATTLE, July 10 

 BODY:
Going door to door as part of an innovative effort to expand the labor movement's reach, Natasha Skorupa encountered some hurdles that union organizers rarely face. 
 At one house with a ''beware of the dog'' sign on the chain-link fence, she debated at length whether or not to enter the yard, while at others, homeowners slammed the door because they were in the middle of dinner. 
 But by the end of one recent evening, Ms. Skorupa had persuaded more than a dozen people, including a graphic designer, a hospital worker and a retired insurance company worker, to sign up for a new arm of the labor movement. 
 These people will not be part of a traditional union that negotiates contracts covering wages and working conditions. Rather, they will be part of a fast-growing, newfangled advocacy group that will campaign alongside labor unions on many issues, like raising the minimum wage and fighting new rules that cut back on overtime pay. 
 ''We are trying to get nonunion people and union people to work together, and we're seeing that there are a lot of issues they have in common,'' said Ms. Skorupa, the amiable, highly energetic director of a crew of eight canvassers who knock on 2,500 doors each week.
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. quietly began this effort last year in two cities and has expanded it to a total of 400 canvassers in 10 cities, including Cleveland, Cincinnati, St. Louis and Tampa, Fla. The aim is to enlist one million nonunion people to join the labor federation's new community affiliate, Working America. Thousands of people who have signed up have joined hands with union members to send President Bush letters and e-mail messages opposing changes in overtime rules and urging an end to tax breaks that encourage companies to send jobs overseas.
 ''We've got about 400,000 members,'' said Karen Nussbaum, a longtime A.F.L.-C.I.O. official who has been named executive director of Working America. ''We're adding about 20,000 members every week. It's really explosive.''
 Ms. Nussbaum predicted that the group would reach its goal of one million members by year's end, expanding the voice and reach of the labor federation, which has 13 million members. For many union leaders, the rapid growth of the group, which has inspired at least one similar effort, is a sign that labor is on the rise again, finding ways to reverse its decades-long decline.
 But not everyone agrees. ''Given their steady decline in representing workers, it's not surprising that the union movement has turned to a nontraditional way to expand its reach,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''Time will tell how effective this is. However, it does reinforce the reality that the traditional benefits of the union movement are no longer appealing to workers.''
 Ms. Nussbaum said the new group was needed because labor unions were not strong enough and were, by some measures, growing weaker. The percentage of workers in labor unions has dropped to 12.9 percent from 35 percent in the 1950's.
 ''Labor's not big enough,'' Ms. Nussbaum said. ''We aren't growing. Our greatest challenge has been growth, and we've been stymied in our efforts. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is the biggest labor organization in the world, but we're only a small percentage of our work force. We know that's got to change.''
 She said the time was opportune to create Working America, because for the first time in years opinion polls show that most Americans would like to join a union, but many are unable to do so because of intense opposition by employers. The spread of the Internet also encouraged the formation of the group, she said, because e-mail makes it easy and inexpensive for labor unions to keep in close touch with members of Working America. 
 ''We realize this cannot replace unions that do collective bargaining, but it does give us a new vehicle of great strength to lobby for working families on many issues,'' said John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president. ''It's part of our consideration of how we have to change in terms of representing workers, mobilizing workers and communicating with workers.''
 Last month, the nation's fastest-growing union, the Service Employees International Union, began a similar effort to attract one million labor sympathizers through the Internet. The union hopes to sign up members for this group, Purple Ocean -- the union's official color is purple -- by advertising on Web sites and by getting names from other organizations and earlier campaigns.
 Purple Ocean's members will be urged to join the service employees union's campaigns for universal health insurance and for adequate staffing levels at hospitals. 
 Gina Glantz, Purple Ocean's coordinator, said she foresaw a day when the service employees would call hundreds of thousands of the group's members on their cellphones and transfer the calls to Congressional offices so members could lobby on various issues. 
 ''There's a vast audience out there on our issues,'' Ms. Glantz said.
 One recent Friday night, Ms. Skorupa and other Working America canvassers used a hook to attract people living in a working-class neighborhood of $100,000 homes. Twenty or thirty seconds after homeowners opened their doors, Ms. Skorupa asked whether they opposed President Bush's plan to reduce overtime protections for many Americans. Many nodded in assent.
 Ryan Fredericksen, a freelance graphic designer, had just pulled his Ford van out of his driveway when Ms. Skorupa rushed over. Within two minutes, he signed up.
 ''It's a terrible thing to have any bureaucrat try to take away your overtime, because you have to provide for your family,'' Mr. Fredericksen said.Nonetheless, he turned down Ms. Skorupa's request for a donation. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is spending $5 million to set up Working America and hopes it will become self-supporting through contributions.
 One canvasser, Gerome Rothman, was touched when the 11-year-old son of a woman who signed up contributed $2 of his own money. After hearing Mr. Rothman's appeal about cutbacks in overtime, Quan Wang, who does accounts payable work for Amazon.com, contributed $24.
 ''It's a big issue,'' Mr. Wang said. ''It's important to people.''
 Mr. Rothman, 23, who majored in philosophy at George Washington University and has a master's degree in political theory from the London School of Economics, canvasses 60 to 70 homes most days, often finding just half the people home. Most days he gets at least 16 people to join and receives $100 to $150 in contributions. He earns $9 an hour as a full-time canvasser, with benefits.
 ''It's not about the money,'' he said. ''I have student loans to pay, but this is what I want to do. I've always been very passionate about labor issues.''
 With its new mass of e-mail addresses, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. will repeatedly contact members of Working America to get them to send letters and e-mail and make phone calls about many issues. Although Working America is officially nonpartisan, it will ask especially active members in some states to go door to door to register voters and distribute issue-oriented literature.
 ''We want to make a difference in the election,'' Ms. Skorupa said. ''Not that we're partisan, but Bush hasn't been very supportive of our policies.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Natasha Skorupa, standing, with her crew of canvassers in Seattle, gets ready for another day of going door to door recruiting members for Working America, a new organization affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); IMMIGRATION (60%) Labor; Organized Labor; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Overtime; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (82%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Working America; Service Employees International Union; Purple Ocean

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (69%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



204 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Will the Fed Have to Play Catch-Up?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE June inflation numbers due this week could jostle investor expectations about how fast Federal Reserve policy makers will raise their short-term interest rate benchmark to slow growth and curb further price gains.
 A month ago, reports of a 0.8 percent surge in the Producer Price Index for finished goods for May and a 0.6 percent jump in the Consumer Price Index woke up inflationary fears. 
 For the three months ended in May, the consumer index rose at an annual rate of 5.5 percent, while the core rate, which excludes food and energy, climbed at an annual rate of 3.3 percent. 
 The 5.5 percent pace was the fastest since the three months ended in November 1990, while the 3.3 percent rise in the core rate had not been matched since October 1995.
 Analysts and economists started chattering about how far behind the inflation curve the Fed had fallen, and some predicted big half-point rate increases down the road.
 On June 30, the Fed raised its federal funds target by a quarter of a percentage point, to 1.25 percent, the first increase in more than four years. 
 Then, on July 2, fears of half-point rate increases waned after the government reported an increase of just 112,000 payroll jobs in June, well below expectations and a hint that economic growth was slowing.
 But if the Fed is going to keep to a measured pace of rate increases, which many analysts say means quarter-point jumps, the inflation data has to show that the pace of price increases has slowed.
 Analysts are forecasting that the Producer Price Index, due on Thursday, and the consumer index, due on Friday, both rose 0.2 percent in June, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets. That would be a deceleration.
 The core rates of both indexes are also expected to climb by just 0.2 percent.
 But even with a slower June added in, the three-month annual rate of increase for the consumer index would still be 4.3 percent. The three-month annual rate of increase for the core C.P.I. would fall to 2.7 percent. 
 That means that prices will have to remain tame in the months ahead to ward off a half-point rate increase by the Fed. And, needless to say, if the actual numbers come in higher than the forecasts, a lot of analysts could be predicting a half-point rate increase as soon as the August meeting of Fed policy makers.
 In a note to clients at the end of last week, Goldman Sachs's economic team said that slowing labor productivity would increase unit labor costs, trim corporate profits and raise the core C.P.I.
 Because of that, it raised its estimates of how fast and how high the Fed would push the federal funds rate. 
 Its forecast for that rate at the end of 2004 is now 2.25 percent, instead of 2 percent. The prediction for the end of next year is now 3.50 percent, a full percentage point higher.

RETAIL SALES -- A sign of slowing economic growth may come on Wednesday, when the government reports on retail sales for June. The forecast is for a decline of 0.7 percent, which would be the second monthly decline in the last three months.
 On the consumer front, analysts expect the University of Michigan measure of consumer confidence to rise to 97, the second-highest reading of the year.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Inflation Watch''Graph tracks the monthly change in the consumer price index since 2003.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



205 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: A Revival for San Diego's Downtown

BYLINE: By GAY JERVEY

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO used to be the kind of city that was filled with business and government workers during the day but empty at night.
 ''We used to roll up the sidewalks at 5 p.m., and you could fire a cannon through the streets of downtown San Diego,'' said Philip Gorman, an agent with Keller Williams Realty. 
 But the city is in the midst of rapid change. ''Downtown San Diego is experiencing a vibrant redevelopment that is nothing short of awesome,'' said George Gilman, managing broker at Burgett Gilman & Associates. ''Once barren parcels of land and sprawling vacant warehouses are now giving way to stunning architectural achievements. Chic condominiums now dot the landscape, and many more are either under construction or well on the way.'' 
 Residential towers are sprouting, and their apartments are selling for $500 or more a square foot, brokers say. There has also been construction on lofts that are for work or living, or both.
 Just who is flocking to downtown? Seventy percent of the buyers are ''baby boomers and older,'' according to Gary H. London, president of the London Group Realty Advisors. ''They are mostly couples, but some singles,'' he said. ''With most of these people in these neighborhoods, at least one is working downtown. And about 38 percent are owned by people that have either speculatively purchased them or use them as second homes.''
 According to Peter Hall, president of San Diego's Centre City Development Corporation, there were fewer than 10,000 people living in downtown San Diego 10 years ago. Now there are about 22,000, and he expects that number to rise to 85,000 by 2030. 
 The downtown renaissance began about a decade ago. ''It started in the 1980's but really kicked into high gear after 1996,'' Mr. London said. ''The Petco ballpark is the latest of several modern anchor projects for downtown, which have catalyzed the redevelopment principally on the residential sector.'' The first, he said, was the Horton Plaza shopping mall. The second was the development and expansion of the downtown convention center, which helped to spur the rebirth of the Gaslamp Quarter, with its restaurants, galleries, movie theaters and nightclubs. 
 Downtown San Diego includes six other distinct neighborhoods, including the Marina District, which has a spectacular view of San Diego Bay and was the first to be developed residentially. 
 Peter Toner, an agent at Prudential California Realty, says many of the new residents are retirees who sold their houses in La Jolla or Del Mar or Rancho Santa Fe. ''They have given up the garden, the yard and the dog and are having the time of their lives down here,'' he said. ''If you buy in the right building, you can walk everywhere and have dinner out every night. And it's safe.''
 Some new residents have come from much colder climates, lured by the magic that has always brought people to San Diego: the weather. ''My wife and I attended a conference here in the mid-80's,'' said Tom Ryan, 72, a retired television and radio anchor from Rochester, N.Y., who now lives in the Marina District. ''We flew out of Rochester in a blizzard and landed here, and it was 78 degrees and sunny, and we didn't think there was a place in the universe that had this kind of weather in February. We looked at each other and said wouldn't it be great to live here, never dreaming that in a few years we would be here.''
 From his window he can see the mountains and the bay. ''We have 1,900 square feet, 3 bedrooms and 3 baths. It cost $655,000 in October 2002, and it is now worth between $900,000 and $1 million.'' The city, he said, is ''alive, filled with an enthusiasm, a spirit.''
 Interestingly enough, the area that historically has been the least alive is the East Village, the new home of Petco Park stadium, which is partly credited with reviving the downtown. Not long ago, the East Village housed squatters and abandoned warehouses, many of which have been demolished to make way for new residences. 
 Adam Rudick and his fiancee, Kate Ziesing, who live in an East Village loft, are part of the neighborhood's new waves of residents. ''The first day we went to look at these lofts, we looked out our window and a homeless woman walked out of a shack across the street and used the street as a restroom,'' Mr. Rudick said. ''There were homeless people all around.''
 Today, according to Mr. Hall, there are 3,700 new housing units within three blocks of Petco Park. ''The East Village is now the hottest area of our entire downtown,'' he said. ''And it is also the largest and most undeveloped area, so we expect great things over the next 5 to 10 years. The East Village not only has come the furthest, it has come the fastest.''
 Mr. Rudick, for one, needs no convincing. First of all, he loves the numbers. In 2002, his family paid $380,000 for the first loft he bought in his building, a 1,041-square-foot unit on the fourth floor. His broker, Mr. Gorman, now estimates that it is worth $650,000. Last year, Mr. Rudick bought his eighth-floor 1,200-square-foot loft for $600,000. In the last year the value of condos in Park Loft, Mr. Rudick's building, have risen more than 30 percent, according to Mr. Gorman. ''Right now buildings in downtown that have not even started construction are fully sold out,'' he said.
 But for Mr. Rudick, it's not just about the money. There are the memories. On the night of Dec. 17, 2003, he filled his terrace with candles and roses, got down on his knees and proposed to Ms. Ziesing. Fitting for the moment, fireworks burst across the sky, as the Padres were doing a test run for opening night at Petco Park. She said yes, and the couple is getting married on Aug. 8. ''I can't tell you how much I love this place,'' Mr. Rudick said. ''I don't think I could ever give it up, no matter what the price.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: VIBRANT REDEVELOPMENT -- New buildings and shops dot the Gaslamp Quarter, above and below. Adam Rudick and Kate Ziesing in their loft near Petco Park. (Photo by Alan Decker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); RETAILERS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); BABY BOOMERS (52%) Housing

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL CALIFORNIA REALTY (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: Gay Jervey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Diego (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



206 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2322 words

HEADLINE: Arrested Development

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
THE Goldman Sachs building juts out of the left bank of the Hudson River like a fat, shiny, blue thumb. Its tapered top can be seen from as far south as Exit 12 on the Turnpike in Rahway. But what can't be seen from Exit 12 is that the top third of the 40-story Jersey City building -- 13 floors, to be exact -- will be empty for the foreseeable future.
 It is a long way from four years ago, when the company stunned the financial community by announcing its intention to move much of its operation to New Jersey, and officials here boasted about landing one of Manhattan's most respected financial firms. 
 The building itself -- designed by Cesar Pelli, the architect of the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, the world's tallest structures -- was planned on a grand scale. Inside it is a palace, with polished marble from Italy and France lining the walls and floors. A silver-green aquatic hue dominates. The panoramic picture-window lobby focuses its gaze on the towers of Lower Manhattan. 
 Its back, however, is turned to the rest of New Jersey. 
 The symbolism cannot be denied. In the last few years, the blue-chip investment banking firm that owns the building -- the tallest in New Jersey, at 781 feet -- has significantly scaled down its plans on this side of the Hudson, cutting back on the building complex and the number of employees who will work there while at the same time planning a tower just north of the World Financial Center in Lower Manhattan. 
 Not surprisingly, developers and public officials alike are concerned, publicly praising Goldman Sachs but privately wondering what is going on. As one major waterfront landlord put it, ''I don't understand it.'' Moreover, their fears are set against a backdrop in which commercial construction along the river has all but ceased, and there is a struggle to fill millions of square feet of empty office space.
 The problem, according to James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy and Rutgers University, was that overeager companies projected growth based on late-90's numbers and fretted where they would put all the new employees. 
 ''They made a fatal mistake,'' Dr. Hughes said. ''Employment ratcheted up in '97, '98, '99, and they assumed their employment was going to grow. They over-leased space.'' 
 Today, he said, leases that were written in the late 90's are ending, ''so all of the sudden a lease that was a tenant problem is starting to become a landlord problem.'' 
 Still, compared with the late 80's and early 90's, when landlords went bankrupt and buildings stood empty, today's world is much less severe. And New Jersey is continuing to lead the New York area out of the throes of recession and unemployment. 
 ''They're going to feel it,'' Dr. Hughes said, ''but I don't think it's a disaster.''
 Not a disaster, but not great news either. And while most developers say they remain bullish on what is known as the Gold Coast -- including the riverside Hoboken, Jersey City and Weehawken -- there is an underlying sense that the future, once so bright, may have dimmed.
 Goldman Sachs had announced that it would move a large part of its operations -- about 6,000 of its 12,000 employees -- from Lower Manhattan to a 1.3-million-square-foot tower complete with a university, convention center and upscale hotel, all atop property that once produced Colgate toothpaste and Palmolive soap. 
 In April 2000, when the project was approved by the local planning board, commissioners could barely contain their glee. ''I really think this is a defining moment for us, for our future, really,'' said Scott Seale, one board member.

13 Floors Are Vacant
 But that future has not exactly panned out. Many of the plans and computer simulations presented at that hearing have been shelved. Only 3,000 Goldman Sachs employees are expected to move to New Jersey by the end of the year, and company officials say the top 13 floors of the 40-story building will remain mothballed for now, along with the hotel and the university.
 Matters seemed to turn for the worse last winter, when speculation flared in the brokerage community that Goldman Sachs was seeking to put much of the space on the open market, which would have flooded an environment already awash in vacancies. Goldman Sachs officials now say that the Mellon Financial Corporation had expressed an interest in occupying part of the building but that they rejected the proposal. 
 ''It's better for us to have empty space and take it over later than to scramble around and look for space when the market picks up,'' said one Goldman Sachs official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
 Nonetheless, the firm's shrinking commitment to Jersey City has raised concerns. For the last few months, Goldman Sachs has been working to get approval for a 40-story tower in Battery Park City, near the World Financial Center, while New York officials -- still stung by the company's partial move to New Jersey -- are trying to woo it to the former World Trade Center site. 
 For their part, company officials say that the building they intend to develop, on what is called Site 26 in Battery Park City, is simply a piece in its long-term planning. They say they are not turning their backs on New Jersey. 
 ''That's not an accurate interpretation,'' said Timur Galen, a managing director of global sales strategies at Goldman Sachs. ''The driving reason for Site 26 was to combine the sales and equity trading business split between 85 Broad and One New York Plaza.''
 In the company's 112-page annual report for 2003, ''Jersey City'' appears just once -- and that reference is in a negative context of higher expenses resulting from construction plans being postponed at 30 Hudson Street.
 Many of the company's 12,000 employees were never thrilled with the notion of working in New Jersey rather than Wall Street. The company touched off a near-revolt when it said in 2002 that a good portion of its equity trading division -- some of the highest-profile workers in the company -- would be shifted to New Jersey.
 Though most of those traders will remain in Manhattan, some from Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, a division of Goldman Sachs, are now working in Jersey City. Still, company officials said they were having difficulty persuading employees to move from Manhattan to New Jersey.

'Not Exactly Paris'
 ''It's not exactly Paris with the left bank and the right bank,'' Mr. Galen said, ''but give it time.'' 
 Officials are convinced that once workers see the building they will become quick converts. The tower is fronted by grand columns and 25-foot-high windows with postcard views of Lower Manhattan. It has a ferry slip, a helicopter landing pad, a nursery and day-care center for 40 children, a spectacular, well-equipped gym and offices with sweeping views of both New York and Jersey City -- all a five-to-eight-minute ferry ride away, every 10 minutes, from Lower Manhattan.
 While a formal grand opening will take place later in the year, a spokesman said, about 1,500 traders as well as operations and administrative employees are already at work in the building.
 The plight of the Goldman Sachs building is emblematic of Jersey City and waterfront office development in general. Only one office project has broken ground since the attacks of Sept. 11. According to a report by Cushman & Wakefield, only 444,700 square feet of space was leased in the first six months of this year, compared with 3.7 million square feet in 2000. A scant 138,000 square feet of space was leased in the first three months of this year.
 ''Although slightly exceeding the pace set at this time last year,'' the report said, ''this activity is still historically weak for this desirable region of the country.''
 The vacancy rate for office space in Weehawken, Hoboken and Jersey City, which stood at just 1 percent in 2000, soared to around 19 percent last year and now stands around 17 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield -- though that last figure does not account for hundreds of thousands of square feet of empty floors in the Goldman Sachs building. 
 Harborside Plaza 5, a 980,000-square-foot waterfront building that opened in 2002, has an astonishing 34 percent vacancy rate, despite recent deals with tenants. Mitchell Hersh, the chief executive of Mack-Cali, a Cranford-based company that owns the building and about three million other square feet of office space on or near the waterfront, acknowledged in a recent interview that the going had been rough. But he said he was confident that Jersey City and the waterfront would grow once the economy picked up.
 ''We have deals in process,'' Mr. Hersh said, ''and I think we'll see it significantly reduce the unleased space in that building. We have a high level of activity.''
 The flurry of construction at the close of the 1990's was encouraged by cities eager to put up tall buildings that they saw as cash cows.
 ''My philosophy was these buildings had to get approved with a quick response,'' said Jeff Kaplowitz, a former chairman of Jersey City's planning board who oversaw many of the approved plans. ''Buildings in the ground meant higher ratables for Jersey City.'' 
 Yet the flurry left behind sparkling new buildings with no one to fill them as the economy plunged. Mr. Hersh's optimism notwithstanding, down the road may not be so rosy, either. For instance, even though companies like Lord Abbett, a money management firm, and the publishers John Wiley & Sons moved their entire headquarters to the Gold Coast in the 1990's, the perception lingers that New Jersey is still the minor league.
 ''You know, image counts for a lot,'' said Richard LeFrak, chief executive and president of the Lefrak Organization, which owns six million square feet of office space in the Newport section of Jersey City. ''What I can say is that as a practical matter there's a vibrant market in Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken. People are happy to move there. Eventually, that'll translate into an image change.'' 
 Yet as downtown Manhattan rebuilds, Brooklyn is built out, and other parts of New York start development, that could mean competition for Hudson's waterfront that did not exist in the 1990's. 
 ''Look how far rents have come down in Manhattan,'' said Chris Jones, a vice president for research at the Regional Plan Association. ''It's not as big a difference as it used to be.''
 The allure of Manhattan has been sweetened even more with Liberty Bonds, a financing incentive introduced in the aftermath of Sept. 11, according to Mr. Jones. And the movement of companies to Midtown from Lower Manhattan has made the Gold Coast less attractive than it once was. 
 Still, many people on the west bank of the Hudson insist that Jersey City has not lost its luster. They remain certain that the relative ease of approvals, tax incentives and transportation connections will keep the waterfront competitive.

'It's Still Growing'
 ''I think it's still growing,'' said Eugene Nelson, chief executive of the Jersey City Economic Development Corporation. ''And I think it's going to continue to attract back offices from New York as well as front-line offices from New York. There's a lot of space simply because there was such a building boom a few years back. It simply takes time for the tenancy to catch up with that.''
 To be sure, business has begun to pick up recently, brokers and owners say. For starters, the reopening of the Exchange Place and World Trade Center PATH stations late last year helped, they said. Leases have been signed -- mostly on the smaller 10,000- to 20,000-square-foot spaces, and other potential tenants have been kicking the tires and looking around, so that the hemorrhaging seems to have stopped.
 Some bright spots include 101 Hudson Street, the second-tallest building in the state. About a third of the building was vacant until a few months ago, when three companies signed deals totaling 240,000 square feet. And Mellon, after being rejected by Goldman, is now reported to be interested in taking about 600,000 square feet in another new building just up the waterfront -- Newport Office Center VII -- though a deal has not been signed and Mellon officials would say only that they were looking at space in New Jersey.
 Meantime, some of the grand plans of the last five years remain just that: grand plans. About five million square feet of office space approved in the last five years are realities on paper only. Mr. Hersh of Mack-Cali, a major waterfront developer, said that construction on these plans had little chance of moving forward any time soon. ''I don't see much happening over the next couple years,'' he said.
 But when construction does resume, things will probably be less frenetic this time around. Mr. LeFrak said that developing on speculation -- essentially constructing buildings with no confirmed tenants -- was a gamble that paid off in six buildings in the 1990's at Newport, but would be an unlikely prospect this time around. Others -- including Mr. Hughes of Rutgers -- argue that most banks would be hesitant to finance such schemes. Mr. LeFrak also said that landlords on the waterfront should look to diversify the companies they woo -- and seek fewer financial service firms but more tenants that are less sensitive to the vagaries of Wall Street.

'I'm Impressed'
 Those vagaries have hit Goldman Sachs, which since 2001 has shed almost 15 percent of its work force. The employees now making their way to the new building in Jersey City, some undoubtedly grumpy, may change their tune once they start working in the building. 
 ''Everyone complained about it at first when they heard about it,'' said Corinne Monson, an administrative assistant who was lounging on a bench as a helicopter powered its rotors on the nearby pad. 
 But, Ms. Monson said, many of the employees were won over by the building.
 As for her? ''I'm impressed,'' she said.
 She also lives in Hoboken.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Inside it is a palace, with polished marble floors from Italy and France, but the shimmering Goldman Sachs building in Jersey City, left -- the tallest structure in the state, at 781 feet -- is about one-third vacant. (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Battery Park City in Lower Manhattan offers a view of the emerging Jersey City skyline, which stretches along the west bank of the Hudson River, above. In Jersey City, the new Goldman Sachs building -- the tallest structure in the state -- became an instant landmark.
The Goldman Sachs building -- designed by Cesar Pelli, the architect of the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, the world's tallest structures -- was planned on a grand scale. Inside it is a palace, with polished marble from Italy and France lining the walls and floors. A silver-green aquatic hue dominates. (Photographs for The New York Times, above and center
 Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PROPERTY LEASES (67%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Cesar Pelli; Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (90%); MALAYSIA (71%) Jersey City (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



207 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: How the Futures Market Can Miss the Mark on Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
FOR weeks now, the financial question of the day has been this: How fast and how far will the Federal Reserve raise short-term interest rates?
 For a clue, professional Fed watchers, journalists and even Fed policy makers often turn to the futures market, where monthly contracts for the federal funds rate provide an up-to-date indication of investor expectations. The Fed funds rate, charged on overnight loans of bank reserves, is the benchmark interest rate set by the Fed policy makers. On June 30, they raised it to 1.25 percent from 1 percent. And as of Friday, Fed funds futures contracts indicated that investors were betting that the rate would rise by 0.86 percentage points, to an average of 2.11 percent, in January. 
 Of course, this contract isn't a perfect predictor of what the Fed will do six months down the road.
 Unfortunately, a new study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research casts doubt on its reliability even as a tool for gauging the views of investors. What's worse, because Fed policy makers review the contracts to assess market expectations about interest rates, the futures contracts may even be warping the decisions of the Fed itself.
 In the study, Monika Piazzesi, an assistant professor of finance at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, and Eric T. Swanson, an economist at the Federal Reserve Board, argue that the Fed funds futures contracts have a basic problem as an indicator: they are not a straightforward, unbiased measure of investor sentiment about the monetary policy outlook.
 Instead of being a pure bet on what the Fed will do about rates, the authors say, the prices of these futures contracts include a premium to persuade investors to take the risk of buying them. This risk premium is often large enough, especially when the economy is in a recession or growing slowly, to attract buyers who have no particular view about where the Fed is heading, but who believe that they can nevertheless make a handsome profit by trading the contracts. 
 As a result, these traders skew the Fed funds futures as a gauge of investor sentiment, the authors conclude. When looking six months ahead, the researchers found, the risk premium accounts for an overestimation of a quarter of a percentage point, on average, of the Fed funds rate, according to data from futures contracts for the 15 years through 2003. 
 But the average doesn't tell the whole story. When rates are shifting, the distortion of investor expectations can be greater. 
 The problem is significant, the authors contend, because even the central bank assumes that the Fed funds futures rate actually reflects investor sentiment.
 The study notes, for example, that the Fed's monetary report to Congress in February cited this futures rate several times as a proxy for investor sentiment. In the spring of 2003, the monetary report said, ''data from the federal funds futures market suggested a significant probability of further easing of policy and did not imply any tightening before early 2004.'' 
 The paper says that the Fed policy makers adjust the futures rate only minimally to take the premium distortion into account, adding six basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to six-month Fed funds futures contracts. That is less than one-quarter of the distortion found by the two authors. 
 As a result, policy makers themselves may be misled about how well they are communicating their intentions to the financial markets. 
 ''In making just a small adjustment, the Fed is misinterpreting the information contained in federal funds futures about investors' expectations,'' Ms. Piazzesi said in an interview. 
 Sometimes, the authors said, even the quarter-point figure understates the magnitude of errors because this average covers many months when the Fed funds rate is unchanged. When the Fed is at a policy turning point, as it was at the end of 2000, the error can be bigger. 
 In December 2000, just before the Fed started cutting its benchmark rate, the six-month Fed funds futures contract forecast a rate of 5.79 percent. Six months later, however, the actual rate was almost two points lower, averaging 3.97 percent for the month. About four-tenths of a point of that error, the researchers found, was because of the risk premium bias. 
 The report also includes a trading tip for speculators in Fed funds futures. It says that the risk premium, which can produce big profits if the contracts are bought at the right time, is greatest when the economy is slowing down or in a recession. During a recession, the premium on a Fed fund futures contract six months out swelled as much as five times the value in other periods.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''An Imperfect Indicator''Many analysts view the federal funds futures rate as a clear reflection of investor expectations of monetary policy. But a new study says that the futures rate distorts investor sentiment.Graph projects the federal funds futures rate and the adjusted federal funds futures rate (based on the average distortion over 15 years) for Aug. 2004 to Jan. 2005.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets [fed funds futures]
 Calculation by The New York Times using data in a paper published by the National Bureau of Economic Research [adjusted futures])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%) United States Economy; Credit; Futures and Options Trading; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%) Federal Reserve System; National Bureau of Economic Research

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



208 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: George Rogers III, Patrick Watson

 BODY:
George Marshall Rogers III and Patrick Gavin Watson are to be married today by Dorothy Kelly Gay, a justice of the peace in Somerville, Mass., at the Four Seasons Hotel in Boston. 
 Mr. Rogers, 40, oversees fund-raising, marketing and public and alumni relations at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. He graduated from Bowdoin College and is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Rogers of Litchfield, Me. 
 Mr. Watson, 48, works in Boston as a freelance editor of economic policy reports. He is a former director of publications for the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. He is a son of Mary Beatrice Watson of Louisville, Ky., and the late John P. Watson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); FUNDRAISING (85%); ALUMNI (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



209 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: The Drug Trade's Entry-Level Employees

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
IN Colombia, leaders of the country's drug cartels, notorious traffickers like Pablo Escobar, Carlos Lehder Rivas and the Ochoa brothers, have always been household names and even, in some quarters, celebrities. The people who actually carry their narcotics to the United States, on the other hand, are so divested of any individual identity that they are collectively and dismissively known as ''mules.''
 But in ''Maria Full of Grace,'' his prize-winning first feature film, the American director Joshua Marston inverts what has become the accepted order of things.
 ''This is a story usually told from the top down, from the point of view of a trafficker or a D.E.A. agent,'' Mr. Marston said during an interview last month, just before showing the movie to leaders of the Colombian immigrant community here. ''We didn't want to do that. Our goal was to look at things from the ground up and to individualize people who usually get flattened to two dimensions in any discussion of the war on drugs.'' For once, the anonymous mule has been given a name, and a very clearly defined character. 
 With a Spanish-language script credited to Mr. Marston, ''Maria Full of Grace,'' which opens in New York on Friday, shows how easy it is for an ordinary person with limited horizons to drift into the orbit of drug runners. Maria Alvarez is a feisty 17-year-old who is unhappy living with her mother and sister, tired of her dead-end job stripping thorns from roses at a flower plantation and bored with her unexciting boyfriend, Juan, who has just made her pregnant.
 When Maria, played by Catalina Sandino Moreno, meets a flashier suitor, and he, after hearing her complaints, offers an introduction to a fatherly drug courier, she hesitantly accepts. But instead of then portraying Maria as a villain, Mr. Marston, 35, who has directed a number of short films, shocked the Colombians he was wooing as collaborators by showing sympathy in the screenplay for her plight.
 ''The image that Europeans and gringos have of us generally has nothing to do with our reality, and in the movies I've seen, they ridicule us,'' said Jaime Osorio Gomez, a well-known Colombian director who signed on as a co-producer. ''But this was unusual, as if the script had been written by a Colombian.''
 ''Maria, Llena Eres de Gracia,'' as the movie is known in Spanish, opened in Colombia just before Easter, after winning the dramatic audience award at the Sundance Film Festival in January and a pair of prizes at the Berlin International Film Festival. Though there was some initial suspicion of the idea of a North American making what one critic called ''a universal drama that could only happen in Colombia'' -- and fear that the movie would be as didactic as one of the government's anti-drug propaganda campaigns -- those apprehensions vanished as soon as audiences there saw the film.
 ''We want to turn our gaze away from the screen, but we can't,'' the critic, Ricardo Silva Romero, wrote in Semana, a leading weekly newsmagazine. As a result of ''a precise script and a series of controlled performances,'' by the midpoint of the film, he added, ''one understands what it means when they talk about stories that 'keep you on the edge of your seat.' ''
 Both Colombian and foreign audiences have been particularly unnerved by a graphic scene in which Maria swallows 62 pellets of heroin before boarding the flight that will take her to New York City. At the Berlin festival, where Ms. Sandino won the award for best actress, one spectator even fainted as Maria struggles to force the pellets, each individually wrapped in layers of latex and tied with string, down her throat.
 ''The first time Maria sees a pellet in the film was also the first time I had seen one in real life,'' Ms. Sandino said. ''She doesn't know how to swallow them, and neither did I, so it was a challenge for me, one for which I was not prepared. What you see on the screen is a terrified girl, but I assure you that the actress was also terrified. I had no idea it would be so hard.''
 More than half the cast of ''Maria Full of Grace'' were nonprofessional actors. Though Ms. Sandino had auditioned for commercials and performed in amateur theater productions, she had never acted in a film before. She was cast in the title role after a months-long search in which more than 800 candidates in Colombia and the United States were tested.
 ''I was studying publicity at a university in Bogota and taking some theater courses to rid myself of the timidity I have always had,'' she explained. ''I'd never been chosen for anything at an audition, and even after someone I knew called my mother and told her about the casting session, I was hesitant. I went mostly out of curiosity, and went home certain they wouldn't choose me.''
 In reality, the start of filming had already been delayed because Mr. Marston could not find the right actress to play Maria, who appears in every scene of the movie. ''But within 30 seconds of seeing Catalina on tape, it was clear that she was the one,'' he said. ''She was very natural, and she displayed a confidence that convinced me she could rise to the challenge.''
 To prepare for the role, Ms. Sandino, who is 23 and bears a resemblance to Madeleine Stowe, went to work at a flower plantation on the outskirts of Bogota. Her own background is middle-class, but she quickly came to appreciate the economic and social forces that shaped her character.
 ''It was very hard work, and people were fighting to keep their jobs, so they didn't look at a newcomer in a particularly friendly way,'' she said. ''That's when I began to love and respect Maria and understand her decision to get out of that monotonous, depressing life, even if it meant taking a big risk.''
 The crucial part of Don Fernando, a Colombian immigrant who aids Maria in her hour of need in New York, went to Orlando Tobon, who plays a similar role in real life. Owner of a travel agency in Jackson Heights, Queens, Mr. Tobon, 54, arrived in New York in 1968 and over the years has helped to identify and bury more than 400 mules who died after drug pellets ruptured in their stomachs.
 ''The drug mafia is more sophisticated these days and have improved their methods, but during the 1980's I had to deal with as many as five cases a week,'' he said. ''I have known a lot of people like Maria, who think only of the money they are going to make and not of the dangers they can encounter on a trip, whether it be jail or death.''
 Mr. Marston worried that his script might not have commercial appeal until he met the producer Paul Mezey, whose realist dramas ''La Ciudad'' and ''Our Song'' he had seen and admired. Coincidentally, Mr. Mezey's father, a Romanian-born refugee from Nazi rule, had grown up in Colombia, and Mr. Mezey, who lives in New York City, was about to make his first trip to the country, accompanied by his father.
 ''I took the script with me, and I got very excited as we traveled through these small towns on the way to where my father used to live, seeing people on the street who could be Maria,'' Mr. Mezey said. ''We actually started scouting for locations even though I had no idea where we were going to get the financing.''
 After striking out with potential backers in Spain, Mr. Mezey eventually found acceptance at HBO Films. Once the financing was secured, however, another obstacle emerged. In the run-up to Colombia's 2002 presidential election, political violence was increasing there, which led insurance companies to refuse to issue coverage to the production. Eventually, that forced Mr. Marston to move filming of the Colombian scenes to neighboring Ecuador.
 But the movie itself contains only veiled hints of the political violence that prompted that change. In one scene, a radio blaring in the background tells of a clash between guerrillas and army troops, but Colombia's 40-year civil conflict otherwise seems outside Maria's universe.
 ''At one point, there were more political references in the script, but we took them out because they were starting to feel heavy-handed,'' Mr. Mezey explained. ''We did not want to frame Colombia as a desperately violent country, but in a humane way that made it clear it was not predetermined that she has to do this.''
 In contrast, Mr. Marston, who was a political science graduate student at the University of Chicago before turning to film, does not hold back on criticism of the war on drugs. El Dorado Airport in Bogota is full of posters that warn Colombians ''do not be a mule'' and show photographs of those who have been apprehended, but Mr. Marston sees that approach as simplistic.
 ''It's no different than the 'just say no' campaign in the United States,'' he argued. ''It's a little late for that, a little late to be reducing the problem to black and white stereotypes that justify fighting the drug war in a way that is skewed to favor military rather than humanitarian spending.''
 Ms. Sandino, now living in New York City, said that she was being deluged with scripts. But she said she found it even more gratifying to think that the film had altered the lives of Colombian filmgoers whose only knowledge of mules came from those posters, a point that other Colombians involved in the film echoed.
 As Mr. Tobon said: ''Early in June, a 17-year-old boy called from Bogota to say he had seen the film two days before and as a result had changed his mind about transporting drugs to the United States. So the movie has already led to changes and may be saving lives, which is exactly the objective I had in mind for it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Catalina Sandino Moreno, left, and Yenny Paola Vega in ''Maria Full of Grace.'' (Photo by Christobal Corral Vega/HBO Films/Fine Line Features)(pg. 9)
 Catalina Sandino Moreno as Maria in ''Maria Full of Grace.'' (Photo by Christobal Corral Vega/HBO Films/Fine Line Features)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CARTELS (78%); HORSES (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DRUG POLICY (73%); IMMIGRATION (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); FESTIVALS (62%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: Joshua Marston; Catalina Sandino Moreno; Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



210 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Russian Merchants Display Their Wares at Arms Expo

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: NIZHNY TAGIL, Russia, July 9 

 BODY:
Eight Russian infantrymen sprinted for cover behind a wooden wall. The soldiers began firing, first with assault rifles, then with grenade launchers and antitank rockets. 
 Tracers skipped off the ground; the crunch of exploding rockets reverberated in the air. Minutes later a jet fighter screamed overhead and performed multiple rolls, corkscrewing between Russian forest and low-hanging clouds. 
 Cheers rose from reviewing stands, where the spectators included delegations from Jordan, Egypt, North Korea, Libya, China and the United States. On this former Soviet target range, the once shadowy Russian arms industry is today's sales show, performed for a global audience with the money to buy. 
 Russia has surged back into the international arms market, moving from laggard to a leader. Prodded and promoted by a state-controlled export agency, Moscow has been closing deals on submarines, tanks, frigates, helicopters and jet fighters, along with the add-ons and maintenance contracts that keep these expensive items running. Even a Soviet-era aircraft carrier has been transferred to India as part of a deal for its refit and the purchase of new weapons and aircraft. 
 Last year was the fourth consecutive year of growth. Rosoboronexport, the state exporter, said sales exceeded $5.07 billion in 2003, a position that would rank it second on the list of arms-exporting nations, behind the United States. Talk among exporters is optimistic, laced with residual cold war bravado.
 ''We are pleased to have such a strong rival -- the United States,'' said Igor Sevastyanov, who leads Rosoboronexport's ground equipment division. ''We hope that one day soon we will become first.''
 For now that seems unlikely. From 1999 through 2002, the last year for which international data is available, the United States made 41.9 percent of international arms agreements. Russia made 25.5 percent, according to the Congressional Research Service. 
 Given the United States' continued investment in research and development, and the soaring wartime purchases by the Pentagon, analysts say Russia has little immediate prospect of knocking Washington from its perch as the world's premier arms merchant.
 Still, no one disputes Russia's revival. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, global defense expenditure has increased markedly. But this is a result of domestic purchases in the United States. Global defense exports have actually decreased. Yet Russia has closed more deals, mainly through its leading clients, China and India.
 ''The Russians have been capturing more of a percentage,'' said Mark Stoker, a defense economist for the Institute of Strategic Studies in London. ''There has been a successful marketing drive.''
 The swing in fortunes is tied to a decision in President Vladimir V. Putin's first term that merged two foundering arms export agencies, creating Rosoboronexport. 
 At the time the Russian military did not have the budget to buy its own equipment, and traditional clients of the former Soviet Union -- including Iraq, Syria, Egypt and other African nations -- were seeking fewer weapons, especially armor and planes. 
 Through marketing and high-profile management -- Rosoboronexport is led by Mr. Putin's former colleagues in Soviet intelligence services -- Russia has managed to protect much of its military industrial base in a period of lean domestic purchases.
 Its endurance draws from a reputation forged in the cold war. For decades Moscow's arsenal had outfitted the world with Soviet-designed military equipment, which went to battle under flags as varied as those of Uganda, North Korea, Egypt, Iraq, Iran and even the Taliban. 
 Soviet tanks became the standard armor formations. Soviet planes filled fleets. Two infantry weapons -- the Kalashnikov assault rifle and the rocket-propelled grenade -- became weapons of choice for guerrillas and Soviet-aligned armies alike.
 Today's markets are narrower. The nations of the Middle East no longer purchase arms as they once did, and, during the cold war, Communist countries dumped tens of millions of assault rifles into conflict zones, swamping markets that remain flooded today. 
 ''Russia is not doing well at all right now with these weapons, because in the past they've done too well,'' said Charlie Cutshaw, co-editor of Jane's Infantry Weapons.
 The main sales are now in aircraft, followed by naval vessels. Principal clients are China, which has bought fighter jets, frigates and submarines, and India, with purchases of tanks, jets and the aircraft carrier.
 As more companies strive for market share, the results were on display here this week at the Russian Arms Expo 2004, where more than 200 companies presented their wares. 
 Products ranged from tanks and infantry weapons to artillery guns, helicopters, radars, radios, body armor, life rafts and more. One booth offered equipment to detect eavesdropping bugs; another showed torpedoes designed to destroy American submarines.
 Mr. Sevastyanov and his staff handed out brochures suggesting novel financing arrangements, including barter and forgiving state debt. ''Total Solutions for Defense,'' the brochure read.
 A firing display was held each day. Tanks drove by the reviewing stand and demonstrated their capabilities: fording a pond, shooting on targets at a distant tree line, climbing urban obstacles, a sort of fashion runway for the militarily inclined.
 A woman's voice sounded over the loudspeakers as a T-90 tank roared by -- ''Maximum speed up to 65 kilometers an hour,'' she said. After the tank leapt over a ramp, she practically purred, ''Only Russian tanks are able to negotiate such obstacles.''
 Maj. Neddir Hussein, an Egyptian officer, said he was impressed. He had been sent by the Egyptian Army to look for products of potential interest, and to meet manufacturers who might provide them. 
 ''We will go back to Egypt and we'll make a report,'' he said. ''And if we need anything later we have all of the e-mail addresses and names and numbers for the factories.''
 One Russian product of international interest -- but not displayed here -- is a device to jam global positioning satellites. Many precision munitions used by the United States rely on such satellites to find their targets. In theory, the jammers could cause the Pentagon's most sophisticated bombs and missiles to go astray.
 The devices became the focus of a brief political row at the beginning of the war in Iraq in 2003, when the United States accused Russia of supplying them to Baghdad. Mr. Sevastyanov, who recalled the diplomatic tension, said he was not sure why the jammers were not displayed, but he said Russia did not violate import sanctions against Iraq.
 He also confirmed that Russia has been developing jammers and hopes to find markets for them. ''We have many companies that are working in this field,'' he said.
 For all of the energy surrounding sales efforts here, precisely how much business Russia is doing remains unknown. 
 Russia's military exports are not public, and analysts say the accounting methods for figuring their sales are unknown. It is unclear, for example, whether Russia's sales figures separate sales agreements from actual deliveries, which can be considerably different. Terms of sale are also not disclosed. 
 ''For certain countries -- Russia, China, Vietnam or Indonesia -- it is always hard to know how much of the deals are in cash, barter, debt repayment or some other means,'' said Mr. Stoker, the Institute for Strategic Studies economist. 
 How long such sales can climb is also subject to debate. Russia is officially bullish on the arms market. But analysts say they expect sales to plateau, and perhaps to drop in a few years. Much of the Russian equipment is dated. Its best markets -- for fighter aircraft, for example -- may be approaching saturation. 
 Moreover, Russia has not heavily invested in research that could lead to new products and contracts. 
 ''This places it at great disadvantage in arms markets traditionally dominated by Western suppliers, who continue to expend significant financial and human resources on developing new generations of military combat equipment,'' Richard F. Grimmett, a specialist in national defense at the Congressional Research Service, wrote in a report last fall.
 At the pavilions, however, Western skepticism met Russian pride. One Russian official asked why, if Washington was so confident, it did not send its armor here for a contest.
 ''Why didn't the Americans bring their tanks?'' the official, Aleksandr Karasyov, asked. ''I think it would be interesting to see whose tanks shoot better.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Majorettes bring a touch of hoopla to a display offering the latest in battle tanks at Russian Arms Expo 2004. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times)Map of Russia highlighting Nizhny Tagil: The Russian arms show was held in Nizhny Tagil in the Urals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMS TRADE (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); FIREARMS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); HELICOPTERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Arms Sales Abroad; Advertising and Marketing; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

ORGANIZATION: Rosoboronexport

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (92%) China; India; Nizhny Tagil (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



211 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: A New Market For Bravehearts?

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
AS of this writing, ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' having won the Palme d'Or at Cannes, having landed its director on the covers of both Time and Entertainment Weekly, having dominated talk radio, the op-ed columns and the cable blusterfests for the last month, has just concluded its second weekend in theaters, where it has made more than $60 million so far. By the time you read this, that number will have grown, as the movie, which became the top-grossing documentary ever by the end of its first day of national release, ascends toward the $100 million mark.
 By any available measure, and whatever you think of Michael Moore or ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' these numbers represent the climax of an extraordinary story: a filmmaker, shunned by a major studio, uses his contentious celebrity and his controversial subject matter to turn his movie into a major news story. Arguments rage and opinion hardens before most people have had a chance to see the movie. Once they do, the controversy grows hotter as the grosses expand. Film critics, meanwhile, scratch their heads, alternately bemused and amazed to witness the affirmation of something they often say and rarely believe: that movies have the power to influence political debate, to engage issues of paramount public importance and even to influence the course of events. 
 But what may be most remarkable about ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' is that it is the second movie released in the last six months to generate this kind of attention. It has become something of a commonplace to note the symmetries between Mr. Moore's movie and Mel Gibson's ''Passion of the Christ,'' and to see them as equal and opposite cultural phenomena, converging on the public from the left and right ends of the ideological spectrum. Their similarities, however, are if anything more striking, and not only because the main character in each case is a fellow who went into his father's line of work.
 For an R-rated political documentary to make $100 million would be a show business anomaly, surpassed in strangeness only by an R-rated scripture-based foreign-language film making three times that much. It is unlikely that either picture signals the beginning of a trend, since the success of each was leveraged by the stardom of its maker. But Mr. Moore and Mr. Gibson did not succeed simply through their fame or their knack for using the news media as an engine of publicity. It was clear long before anyone had seen a frame of either ''Passion'' or ''Fahrenheit'' that what audiences would witness was the uncompromised, unfiltered vision of a strong-willed, stubborn and bloody-minded director.
 Is it too idealistic of me to think that this freedom from compromise is part of what attracted audiences? Perhaps more than ever before, the movie studios are ruled by timidity, anxiously tailoring their releases to avoid giving offense. Yes, they sometimes engage in the mock-provocations of sex and brutality, but these tepid buttons are pushed much less forcefully than they were 30 years ago. For the most part, movies, intent on maintaining an illusion of consensus, tread cautiously around the thornier thickets of our civic life. Homosexuality no longer need be euphemized out of existence (though it's best not to place too much emphasis on the sex part), but abortion can scarcely be mentioned. War can be depicted with unvarnished savagery, but also with lump-in-the-throat speeches about valor and sacrifice (and also with period costumes to camouflage any uncomfortably topical implications). The social injustices of the past are ringingly opposed and soundly defeated, enforcing the view that the present is a land of eternal sunshine. Above all, the local multiplex follows the code of an old-line country club, in which religion and politics are not to be discussed.
 The justification for this kind of bland cowardice is economic, and follows a marketing logic that is hard to refute. Why risk alienating potential customers? But the movie-going public can be alienated as much by boredom as by distaste, and it may be that the studios should be more afraid of our indifference than of our anger. At the moment, we are in a state of spiritual and political agitation, and while we may still be looking for entertainment to distract us or calm us down, we also clearly have an appetite for entertainment that does the opposite, that focuses our attention and raises our blood pressure. We worry about the health of the body politic and the state of our immortal souls and, at least some of the time, we want a culture that responds to these concerns. In other words, we are willing to pay good money to be provoked, enraged, exalted and challenged.
 I'm aware that, in saying ''we,'' I'm being somewhat disingenuous -- maybe even hypocritical. Because the popular responses to ''Passion'' and ''Fahrenheit'' have not only challenged the conventional wisdom of the risk-averse Hollywood studios; they have also shaken the assumptions of a great many film critics, this one included. Critics, however democratic our tastes, however accessible our prose, however ignorant our views, are part of a culture of expertise, and it is the prerogatives of this culture that populists like Mr. Moore and Mr. Gibson delight in attacking. Their films provoked a great deal of hand-wringing: from biblical scholars who questioned Mr. Gibson's interpretation of the Gospels; from political commentators who attacked Mr. Moore's rhetoric, and some of his facts; and in both cases from movie critics who were uneasy about the directors' methods.
 This unease, I suspect, arose partly because ''Passion'' and ''Fahrenheit'' were difficult to classify and, loath as we are to admit it, critics often prefer movies that resemble other movies. But ''Passion,'' with its unrelenting violence and its horror-movie effects, did not seem to play by the austere rules of cinematic spirituality, any more than ''Fahrenheit,'' with its boisterous blend of mockery and outrage, obeyed the sober imperatives of documentary.
 It is proper for critics to be concerned with such things, and I certainly would not disown anything I've written about either film. But it is also proper, and healthy, for audiences to overrule our anxious, qualified judgments, and to respond to movies like these with more heat and more passion. The basic critical function of consumer advice, in any case, is overridden when movies become part of a larger debate, which may also be hard for critics to deal with, since it threatens our authority.
 Which is, all in all, a very good thing. Movies are a democratic art form, and democracy, at its most vigorous, can ride roughshod over polite opinion, responsible judgment and cool appraisal. When that happens, we should relish our discomfort, and gratefully acknowledge that, sometimes, hotter heads prevail.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Buying tickets to ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' above, in Manhattan and watching Mel Gibson's ''Passion of the Christ'' in Wenatchee, Wash., in February. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (65%); RELIGION (63%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures ; Motion Pictures; Documentary Films and Programs; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Mel Gibson; Michael Moore; A O Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



212 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: STAPLETON; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Lights, Camera, Inaction (Except for the Court Case)

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
Its lone soundstage went dark months ago. The only movie ever made there has yet to hit the theaters. And now, despite millions of dollars in investments and a two-year legal battle, Stapleton Studios in Staten Island is vacating the premises. 
 The studio partners, a group that includes the actor Danny Aiello, were ordered last month by a civil court judge to leave, and have begun to do so. Their departure was reported last week in The Staten Island Advance.
 ''We can't film there anymore,'' said Dan Marotta, the studio's lawyer. ''Whatever business we were able to bring to Staten Island, that won't be allowed to continue.''
 Mr. Marotta said the studio made an agreement with the city to develop Staten Island's Homeport, a 36-acre former naval base on the waterfront that the city obtained in 1995. Initial plans called for a marina, a yacht club, a hotel, an office complex and 12 additional soundstages. 
 But the city's Economic Development Corporation declined to renew the studio's permit in October 2002, citing poor financial management and saying that one of the studio's partners had pleaded guilty to fraud. The partners denied the allegations, saying the person guilty of fraud was not a partner but an employee, and sued the city. 
 The court decision in June ordered Stapleton Studios to vacate the property and pay the city more than $1 million in overdue rent and electricity bills. And perhaps fittingly for a ruling involving a movie studio, the decision had a tinge of Hollywood pizazz. 
 ''The city apparently believed there was some monkey business involved with the financing of the studio,'' wrote Judge Philip S. Straniere of Richmond County Civil Court. ''This put a big chill on respondent's application. Respondent's dreams were up in smoke.''
 Yet even as the last few pieces of equipment were being carried out, Mr. Marotta said the partners were continuing their legal actions against the city. They have sued for damages to recoup more than $2 million they spent on building the soundstage and any potential profits lost because of the eviction. The partners will also appeal a decision denying their request that the city release documents about its dealings with other movie studios. 
 Meanwhile, the development corporation is working on new plans for the Homeport. Last year, Mayor Bloomberg appointed a task force to develop new ideas for the site, and the group soon will formally recommend a plan that includes housing, stores, cafes and a farmers' market.
 ''This opens up the waterfront,'' said Andrew M. Alper, the corporation's president, adding that the agency has a $66 million budget to improve the Homeport. ''The task force's goal is to remake the site and make it part of the community.''
 Arguments on the studio's lawsuit and appeal should begin this month, said Tina H. Isselbacher, assistant corporation counsel for the city. The conflict, it seems, will continue. 
 ''This isn't the absolute end of the case,'' Ms. Isselbacher said. JEFF VANDAM


GRAPHIC: Photo: Only one film was made at Stapleton Studios and it hasn't even hit the theaters. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); EVICTION (76%); JUDGES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); DAMAGES (70%) Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: Stapleton Studios; Economic Development Corp (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Staten Island (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



213 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Tarr, Christopher Coyne

 BODY:
Jennifer Davis Tarr, the daughter of Patricia and Jeff Tarr of New York, is to be married today to Christopher Roger Coyne, a son of Deborah Romano and Jack Coyne, both of Scarborough, Me. Judge Joyce A. Wheeler of the Maine District Court in York will officiate at the Black Point Inn in Prouts Neck, Me.
 The bride, 24, teaches drama at the School at Columbia University, an elementary school for the children of faculty members and children from the university neighborhood. She is also an actor who has appeared in television commercials. She graduated from Harvard. Her father is the chairman of Junction Advisors, an investment management company in New York. Her mother is the president of the 2wice Arts Foundation, an organization in East Hampton, N.Y., that publishes 2wice, an arts journal. 
 The bridegroom, 27, is working on the development of OkCupid.com, an Internet dating service in New York, of which he is the president. He was a founder in 1999 of TheSpark.com in Cambridge, Mass., a humor Web site, and of SparkNotes, a series of condensed versions of classic literature, world history, math, economics and philosophy study guides. He also graduated from Harvard. His mother is a receptionist for a Wells Fargo Bank branch in South Portland, Me. His father teaches English at Deering High School in Portland.
 When Mr. Coyne and Ms. Tarr met in November 2002, it was not online: they were standing in line at Lotos, the Manhattan club. 
 ''I thought she looked familiar,'' Mr. Coyne remembered. ''I said to her, 'Didn't we go to college together?' She replied, 'Oh, yeah, you're that Spark guy.' '' 
 Mr. Coyne said nothing came of the conversation initially, and that they parted upon entering the club.
 ''But when I got home, I looked her up in Harvard's online alumni guide,'' he said. ''That launched an exchange of e-mails that lasted a month until our first date.''
 She chose the place, he said -- a bar called Sweet and Vicious in lower Manhattan -- ''because she thought it made her sound really nice, but also exciting.'' (It did, he said.)
 ''I then learned,'' Mr. Coyne said, ''about a series of coincidences between our families, including that her father, when he was at Harvard in the 1960's, was a founder of what I think was the first computer dating service, called Operation Match, for which applicants would send in a paper form, which would be turned into punch cards and six weeks later you would get a list of names and phone numbers.'' 
 Ms. Tarr's parents, however, did not meet through Operation Match.
 ''We were fixed up -- but by someone who had used my service,'' Mr. Tarr said. He then added, ''It's a strange world that our daughter ends up marrying someone with his own computer dating service -- someone who even attended the same Boy Scout camp in Maine that I did.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Laurie Lambrecht) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); DATING SERVICES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LITERATURE (69%); HISTORY (68%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (55%); BANK BRANCHES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



214 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: A Different Approach to Raising the Bar

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, July 10 

 BODY:
For years, Toby Stevenson has been different.
 Instead of using his economics degree from Stanford to start a business, which is still a goal, he has become a full-time pole-vaulter. Instead of letting the breeze fly through his hair, he wears a battered hockey helmet. Instead of settling in as a steady but unspectacular competitor, he has vaulted to No. 1 in the world. 
 His improvement has been drastic. Before this year, his career best was 18 feet 10 1/4 inches. Two months ago in Modesto, Calif., he cleared 19-8 1/4. No one else in the world has jumped that high this year, and only seven men have jumped higher. The world record is 20-2 by Sergei Bubka of Ukraine in 1993.
 Stevenson, at 27, is competing in the United States Olympic trials and will face 11 others in the final Sunday night. The top three will qualify for the Olympics next month in Athens.
 In Friday's preliminaries, the 12 who advanced cleared 18- 1/2. Stevenson made it easily, passing on the opening height of 17-8 1/2 and clearing 18- 1/2 on his first attempt. Nick Hysong, the 2000 Olympic champion, qualified, too. Jeff Hartwig, the American-record holder at 19-9 1/4, and Tommy Skipper, the N.C.A.A. champion at 18-8 1/4, did not. Hartwig protested that the vault officials did not give him enough time on one attempt, but the protest was rejected.
 For Hartwig, 36, this was a last hurrah. When asked about future Olympics, he said: ''Absolutely not. No chance.'' For Skipper, a 19-year-old Oregon freshman, there may be better days. For Stevenson, there seems to be an unlimited future.
 ''The last three months have been great,'' Stevenson said. ''I'm superconfident I will make the team, but I say that humbly. If I go to Athens, I will go to medal. I've been putting in four or five hours a day preparing for this. 
 ''I'm not complaining. It's a job, but it's a blast. Whenever the fun dies out, I'm going to stop.''
 That seems a long way off, because Stevenson said he thought he had found the missing part of the puzzle.
 ''I finally figured out how to vault,'' he said. ''I'm not trying to jump like anyone else anymore. Bubka was a great model, but I was taking a part of everyone, and I can't jump like anyone else's jump.''
 Until Stevenson went to Stanford, his only coach was his father, Eddy.
 ''We lived in Odessa, Tex.,'' Stevenson said. ''My dad used to be a vaulter. I think he did 14 feet. When I was in seventh grade, I was doing gymnastics and my dad made me a vaulter.''
 The helmet business started early. There have been serious injuries and deaths to vaulters landing headfirst on a hard runway or a side area.
 ''I wear a roller hockey helmet,'' Stevenson said. ''My parents were looking for one for years. In my senior year in high school, I got this one. The other guys needle me about it all the time, but wearing it is no bother.''
 Stevenson also has the right build for his job. At 6 feet 1 inch and 180 pounds, he has good size for a discipline that requires speed down the runway, power to bend the pole and flexibility to rise and roll over the bar. He is also on a hot streak, and Hartwig, the only American who has ever vaulted higher, is not.
 ''My heart goes out to him,'' Stevenson said of Hartwig. ''Every time you go out, it's a different game. There are no guarantees.'' 
 Hartwig is prone to big-meet mishaps, notably in the 2000 Olympic trials here when he also failed to clear any height in the qualifying round. He took his latest setback calmly.
 ''I've jumped 19 feet in four of my last six meets, but bad things keep happening to me,'' Hartwig said. ''In the grand scheme of things, I'm not going to let this bother me. This is a small part of my career in this sport.''
 Pole-vaulters have their ups and downs in more ways than one. As Hartwig said of Stevenson, ''He's running well and his technique is very sound, but he still has to execute the jump in the final the way he has all year.''
 Stevenson knows well the perils he avoided in the preliminaries here and the dangers he faces in Sunday's final.
 ''The Olympic trials are the worst meet you'll ever have,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Toby Stevenson cleared 19 feet 8 1/4 inches two months ago. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); ATHLETES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Track and Field

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Frank Litsky; Toby Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%); UKRAINE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



215 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: That High-Tech Balloon Is Going Ssssssssss

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE warnings from technology companies came fast and furious last week, cuffing investors who had bought their shares on hopes of super earnings generated in a hot economy. Individual investors and hedge funds alike had piled into tech stocks and enjoyed the ride through 2003, convinced that 2004 results would justify the shares' soaring prices.
 But with software companies like Siebel Systems and Veritas Software, hardware companies like Unisys and computer resellers like the CDW Corporation and Ingram Micro Inc. cautioning that their businesses softened in the second quarter, the sound of air escaping a balloon is more than detectable.
 Inquiring investors want to know: Is this a blip, or is the second-quarter slowdown the beginning of a longer-term malaise in tech? 
 Fred Hickey, editor of The High-Tech Strategist in Nashua, N.H., and a technology stock analyst who knows the industry down to its nittiest and grittiest, says the setbacks in the sector are just beginning. 
 Investors may have been lulled into thinking that the second-quarter results at tech companies would be sunny because reports of shortfalls had been relatively rare. 
 Companies typically alert investors to problems late in a quarter, but by June 30, that front was quiet. ''Normally the third month in a quarter belongs to the confessors,'' Mr. Hickey said. But at the end of June, he added ''there were more positive preannouncements than negative.''
 Nevertheless, two signs point to problems ahead for technology stocks, he said. First, semiconductor shares, which often lead the action in tech stocks, have gone into a nose dive. The semiconductor stock index, known as the SOX, is down 11.2 percent this year, and spot prices of computer chips are forecasting further declines. 
 But the biggest trouble spots on Mr. Hickey's horizon are the ballooning inventories on tech companies' balance sheets. Already rising in the first quarter, these inventories will probably show a surge for the second quarter, he said, because few tech companies appear to have cut production in recent months.
 Investors may not have noticed how inventories have grown at some of their favorite technology concerns. After all, balance sheets are boring; income statements make for much jazzier reading. And comparing balance-sheet items in quarterly reports requires some work: most show only assets and liabilities from the current and previous quarter, not from the same quarter during the previous year. 
 IN the first quarter of 2004, inventories jumped 21 percent to 61 percent, year over year, at such tech stalwarts as Dell, Cisco Systems, Intel and Texas Instruments. And that was when the economy was cooking. So Mr. Hickey expects inventories to show a surge for the second quarter. When inventories rocket, profit margins are hurt. Hefty write-downs are another common result.
 The sales shortfalls at some technology companies will become most evident in the third quarter, Mr. Hickey said, making for some very ugly earnings comparisons from the same period in 2003. Back then, tax rebates were propelling consumers into the stores and gross domestic product soared 8 percent, annualized. Computer notebook sales in the third quarter of 2003, for example, were up 60 percent. 
 But this year, personal computer sales in the United States are growing at rates in the single digits or low teens. PC and notebook sales are also slowing in Europe and are actually declining in Japan. 
 In addition, the tax rebates, courtesy of the White House, are spent, mortgage refinancings have peaked and rising oil prices are pinching consumers. So it's no wonder that sales of tech gear have slowed. 
 Mr. Hickey said the inventory situation at some of the nation's biggest technology companies reminds him of late 2000, when demand from nascent Internet companies screeched to a halt. Although it became apparent in March 2000 that the Internet boom, created in part by a profligate Wall Street, was over, the impact of this steep decline in demand did not show up in major suppliers' results until much later that year and in early 2001. 
 ''This industry is hopelessly optimistic,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''They always overproduce.''
 None of this would matter if technology shares were cheap. But they are not. The price-to-earnings ratio on both Dell and Cisco is 32. Texas Instruments' is 30, and Intel's is 26. 
 ''On June 30, the bulls were extremely long and vulnerable, even though underneath the surface there was a lot of trouble in a lot of places,'' Mr. Hickey said.
 Perhaps the companies issuing early warnings recently will prove to be in the minority by the time all second-quarter results are out. But technology has had a heck of a run in the past year. As they say, nobody ever went broke taking profits.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Gretchen Morgenson column last Sunday about second-quarter performance of technology companies referred imprecisely to reports of softer sales at the CDW Corporation, a computer reseller. Monthly sales reports from the company have shown a decline in sales growth; the company did not warn of a decline.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Stockpilers''Year-over-year increases in inventories at major technology companies, as of the first quarter this year.Dell: +61%Seagate Technology: +60Foundry Networks: +48Cisco Systems: +47Texas Instruments: +30Intel: +29Sun Microsystems: +25Micron Technology: +21(Source by company reports)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); SPOT MARKET (76%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); MICROPROCESSORS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%) Computers and the Internet; Industry Profiles; Computer Software

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); CDW LLC (84%); INGRAM MICRO INC (72%); INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); SYMANTEC CORP (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); IM (NYSE) (72%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



216 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Transit Hub Seen as Important Advance

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
A $20.5 MILLION transportation hub opened here about a month ago with parking for 920 cars and bus, train and taxi connections to Manhattan and other cities. Planners say the project is a critical addition in an area of this southern Westchester city that has been experiencing a revival of housing and commerce.
 The new five-story structure is connected by a footpath to a century-old Metro-North Railroad station next door and by access roads to the New England Thruway, directly to the west, which carries about 21.4 million vehicles a year through Westchester.
 Built with $13 million from the Federal Transit Administration, $4.5 million from the state and $3 in city money, the new concrete-and-brick center has 800 parking spaces for permit holders, 102 metered spaces for daily use and 18 spaces for those with handicaps. 
 Its ground level houses a terminal for an estimated 350 buses a day on the county's Bee-Line system, which serves all of Westchester, said John B. Clemente, the city's engineer.
 When the terminal opens after Labor Day, it will also be used by private long-distance bus carriers like Greyhound and ShortLines, by limousine companies offering connections to regional airports and by local taxis.
 What sets this transportation hub apart from others is that it has been built by a city as opposed to a transportation agency, said Tim Tracy, vice president of Desman Associates, an architectural and engineering firm in Manhattan that has designed about 20 such centers throughout the country. The firm worked with the Long Island Rail Road last year on a similar structure with 400 parking spaces in Long Beach, and it is designing another larger hub in Mineola for the agency.
 Working with Metro-North Railroad two years ago, it drew up plans for a hub that was built in Poughkeepsie. And it is designing three such intermodal centers -- as the transportation depots are often called by governments and architects -- for New Jersey Transit.
 ''Increasingly, agencies and governments are looking for alternatives because of the congestion on roadways from cars,'' Mr. Tracy said. ''We do these all across the country, especially where cities are growing or re-growing.''
 The downtown of New Rochelle, a city of about 72,000 people on Long Island Sound, declined during the last half of the 20th century, with shoppers forsaking the business district for suburban shopping malls. In recent years, however, the city has begun to experience a rebirth.
 Several years ago, Cappelli Enterprises of Valhalla built New Roc City, a 1.2-million-square-foot family-entertainment center, with a skating rink, movie theaters and an arcade, among other things. Close by, AvalonBay Communities erected a 412-unit luxury apartment tower. In addition, developers recently spent $15 million to convert a former five-story Bloomingdale's in the downtown to 72 market-rate work-live condominium lofts. 
 Looking ahead, AvalonBay has submitted plans to build a second apartment building, and Cappelli Enterprises is considering office or residential construction next to New Roc City. Meanwhile, a business improvement district in the downtown is promoting other new residential and commercial development.
 At the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit civic planning and advocacy group in New York City, Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation, described the new intermodal center and the development around it as ''mutually supportive.''
 The new transportation hub, in the works for more than a decade, was scheduled to open this past winter. But inclement winter weather delayed construction, according to George F. Ranione, the city's public properties and parking manager. It is now opening in phases. 
 The permit-parking section opened early last month, with the city charging $750 a year for each space. All of the permits were spoken for by the time the garage opened, Mr. Ranione said. Because state and federal funds were used to finance the project, the permits were not limited to New Rochelle residents. 
 Additional spaces are available at 75 cents an hour for nonpermit holders, although that section of the garage will not open until later this summer, when a meter system is installed.
 To coordinate the new structure with its surroundings, the architects used brick and ornamental iron, Mr. Tracy said. Brick is found on many of New Rochelle's older structures, and decorative iron can be seen on the foot bridges at the railroad station next door to the transportation center. 
 Even though the wood-frame station has been connected to the new structure, only minimal improvements are planned there, because New Rochelle has requested that the depot be listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
 Built in the late 1800's, when the area was a favorite summer spot for New York City dwellers, the station, which is owned by the city, serves travelers on Metro-North's New Haven line. It is also the only Westchester stop on Amtrak's high-speed Northeast corridor service from Boston to Newport News, Va. (Inside the station, bathrooms are being upgraded, and a newspaper concession is being expanded.) 
 Because the transportation hub will be open at all hours, video surveillance cameras have been installed with links to local police stations. In addition, the brightly lit stairwells have glass walls, as do the elevators. ''For security reasons,'' Mr. Tracy explained, ''people need to see out as well as in.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An In the Region article in some copies last Sunday about a new transportation hub in New Rochelle, in Westchester County, misstated the availability of permits for the parking garage there, because of misinformation from the city's parking manager. About 200 permits are still available; they are not sold out. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW ROCHELLE TRANSPORTATION CENTER -- The train station used by Metro-North and Amtrak is near the new parking garage and bus terminal. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (76%); AIRPORTS (73%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); TRENDS (63%); RETAILERS (60%); SUBURBS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Railroads; Transit Systems; Housing; Economic Conditions and Trends; Parking Garages and Lots; Buses; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (57%) Metro-North Commuter Railroad

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Rochelle (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



217 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: First Thing We Do, Let's Seat All the Lawyers

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
ON July 1, 100 lawyers and summer associates from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom rolled up their sleeves and headed to the Delacorte Theater in Central Park for an evening of culture. After finishing off a buffet dinner backstage, next to Turtle Pond, the conservatively dressed crowd adjourned to the theater itself, where reserved seats to a preview of ''Much Ado About Nothing'' were awaiting them. The firm's bill was $10,000.
 Hold on. Reserved seats for law firms certainly doesn't sound like the democratic vision of Joseph Papp, the founder of ''free Shakespeare'' in Central Park. Papp, after all, said that his theater should be as inclusive as the public library. Isn't free Shakespeare in the park supposed to be, well, free? 
 Since its inception, the Public Theater's presence in Central Park has grown from a utopian idea into a widely sponsored New York tradition -- yet one that has become somewhat tarnished over the last two years, as the schedule of shows has been reduced to one per summer. Moreover, recent productions have received mixed critical marks at best; the consensus is that they suffered from weak performances by celebrities who appeared to have been cast for their names, not their talent. New York Times reviews complain, for example, about senseless high concepts, lame gimmicks and, perhaps most of all, wrong-headed casting, whether it be Julia Stiles as Viola in ''Twelfth Night'' in 2002 or Natalie Portman as Nina in ''The Seagull'' in 2001. 
 Last year, Ben Brantley, the chief theater critic of The Times, described the production of ''Henry V'' at the Delacorte as ''one long, desperate exercise in diversionary tactics.'' In 2002, he wrote that ''Twelfth Night'' was ''seriously confused.'' And while he praised Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline in that 2001 production of ''The Seagull'' for providing sparks of electricity, he added that they ''rarely connect into a circuit.''
 ''On the Town'' was the last show at the Delacorte to move to Broadway when it transferred to the Gershwin Theater in 1998 (and lost $8 million). The jury is still out on the new production of ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' which opens on Tuesday, directed by David Esbjornson and starring Kristen Johnston and Jimmy Smits as Beatrice and Benedick and Sam Waterston as the king, Leonato. Should critics judge the production a success, it is still unlikely that the play would move to Broadway. The shows with commercial potential at the Public Theater now emerge from its downtown home, which the theater acquired in 1966.
 ''The heart of the organization is now at Lafayette Street,'' said Robert Marx, the vice president of the Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation, which gave $25,000 to the Public Theater in 2003. ''The Delacorte is just an ancillary project.''
 The theater's latest official name seems to reflect this shift away from Shakespeare and the summer productions in the park. Founded as the Shakespeare Workshop in 1954, the theater later became known as the New York Shakespeare Festival. That name was slowly phased out, until it was replaced last year by that of the Public Theater.
 Originally, the Shakespeare Festival presented three productions in the park each summer. But the schedule has been trimmed over the years because of the financial challenges in producing free theater. In 1975, the Public started producing only two shows, which was fairly standard for 17 years. In 2002 the Public cut its park offerings to one show (while increasing the length of the run from four to seven weeks). City budget cuts and the effects of the post-9/11 economy were cited among the reasons for this move, but, surely, the box office failures of its Broadway productions ''On the Town'' and ''The Wild Party'' didn't help either.
 All of which means the Public Theater may soon reassess its summer strategy. In February, the theater's longtime producer, George C. Wolfe, announced that he would be resigning; his replacement, who has not been named, is expected in the fall. But Mara Manus, the executive director, has already begun retooling the Public's program at the park. First off, she has aggressively sought to sell to more investors and sponsors (otherwise known as ticket buyers).
 When Ms. Manus arrived in 2002, she was dismayed, she said recently, at how the ticket programs had been promoted. ''The culture at the Public when I got here was, 'Oh, we don't want to look too commercial,' '' she said. ''But there were people of means who didn't want to stand in line who didn't know about this.''
 She was quick to add that the program for individuals to buy tickets has a long history at the Public Theater. ''Joe Papp did this first and aggressively promoted it,'' she said.
 In 1960, Papp established the audience sponsor program, the first of many euphemisms that the Public Theater would employ to avoid words with commercial undertones like ''ticket'' and ''sale.'' In her biography ''Joe Papp: An American Life,'' Helen Epstein writes that there was an impassioned debate among the board of trustees at the time about the program, which was essentially a subscription plan (three shows for $7.50). But Papp -- who made his name by waging war in the press and the courts with Robert Moses, the much-feared parks commissioner, over admission fees (Moses wanted them; Papp did not) -- insisted it was necessary for the theater to survive.
 This year, Ms. Manus tried to publicize the summer sponsor program with a campaign of print advertisements, e-mail messages and a mailing; sponsors receive a reserved seat in exchange for a $100 contribution. It is paying off, she said. Already, the Public has signed up more sponsors than the 3,747 total last year. Ms. Manus put the goal at 6,000 (some will receive discounts because of types of purchase) before the end of the summer. In addition, 47 businesses (the vast majority are law firms) have each contributed up to $10,000 for blocks of tickets. Ms. Manus said the Public would cap sales of reserved seats at one quarter of the Delacorte audience. The theater holds 1,900 seats. If attained, that means for those who acquire tickets the traditional way -- sweating it out in line -- up to 19,950 of the total 79,800 seats to be occupied this summer will not be available.
 Of the $1.9 million cost of mounting ''Much Ado About Nothing'' (which includes $700,000 for indirect costs, like staff salaries and upkeep of the Delacorte), the summer sponsor program accounts for 19 percent of income. The remainder derives from foundations (24 percent), corporate donations (21 percent, which includes cash or in-kind giving by companies like J. P. Morgan and The New York Times) and the blocks of Delacorte tickets sold to businesses (16 percent). There is still a 20 percent shortfall.
 ''Free theater is a nice idea, but it's not a practical one,'' said Adrian Benepe, the commissioner of the city's Department of Parks and Recreation, who is an ex officio member of the Public's board. ''Groups need to become increasingly creative to fund something like free Shakespeare.''
 Some longtime supporters of the Public Theater thought the leadership became a little too creative when it announced a trial run of the Joe's Pub in the Park series this summer. Ms. Manus described the nine cabaretlike performances over nearly two weeks (Aug. 16 to 27) as an effort to augment its summer schedule. To support this new venture, the Public will charge admission at the Delacorte for five of the nine performances.
 ''Joe would not have agreed with this,'' said Merle Debuskey, a retired press agent who represented the Public Theater at its inception and for many years thereafter. ''It's a radical change from the founding philosophy of this theater.''
 Mr. Marx agreed. ''This may not seem like much -- just a few concerts -- but it opens the door,'' he said. ''People have lost sight of the fact that the Public was not just about producing plays. It was a civic dream.''
 But such grumbling has taken place outside the walls of the Public Theater. Unlike the debate at the time the sponsor program was instituted, there was little argument this time among the trustees. ''There were questions among the board about how this would be perceived,'' said Ms. Manus, who insisted that the policy of providing free tickets to Shakespeare plays at the Delacorte would not change. ''But I think everyone agreed that we needed to extend our programming.''
 Ms. Manus emphasized that the Joe's Pub series is not a replacement for a second summer show in the park. It has more to do, she said, with luring the young, hip audience at Joe's Pub to the Delacorte and, it is hoped, to future Shakespeare productions there and eventually to other productions at the Public Theater itself.
 Shakespeare in the Park may have been a radical idea in Joseph Papp's day, but since then small companies have arisen to provide some competition. Earlier this month, for example, you could see free and outdoor versions of ''Measure for Measure'' at La Plaza Cultural in the East Village, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'' in Central Park, near the Bethesda Fountain, and ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' in a Lower East Side parking lot for the 10th anniversary production of Shakespeare in the Parking Lot.
 Whoever replaces Mr. Wolfe as producer of the Public Theater will have the benefit, Ms. Manus said, of inheriting stable financial conditions. According to her projections, the Public, with an annual budget of $12 million, will be in the black by the end of the summer for the first time since 1998. Now may be the perfect time to take a fresh look at Shakespeare in Central Park.
 Early conversations among the Public's leadership about the theater's 50th-anniversary offerings next year at the Delacorte suggest what may be a return to the theater's roots. Most encouragingly to many people, the Public will produce a second show that summer, along with the previously announced production of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' to be directed by Mr. Wolfe. Ms. Manus said the second work may be a revival of a classic musical. (The 1997 revival of ''On the Town'' was the last musical the Public produced at the Delacorte.)
 In addition, there have been discussions about bringing back the mobile theater, Papp's long-defunct traveling stage that brought Shakespeare to the five boroughs. ''I don't think we're going to show traditional Shakespeare,'' Ms. Manus said of the work presented in the mobile theater. ''It could be a musical adaptation of Shakespeare. It might be something bilingual.''
 How will these new financial burdens be supported? ''Scenarios are being looked into,'' Ms. Manus said coyly.
 Joseph Papp's widow, Gail Papp, who sits on the board, put it another way: ''It's the same as always. We really have to invent ways to make money.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on July 11 about ticket policies for the Public Theater's Shakespeare productions in Central Park referred incorrectly to the Messina office held by Leonato, the character currently played by Sam Waterston in ''Much Ado About Nothing.'' He is governor, not king. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The critics haven't weighed in yet on ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' this summer's Public Theater offering at the Delacorte in Central Park. But in recent years, reviews of the productions there have been mixed. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 5)
 An audience at the start of a preview performance of ''Much Ado About Nothing'' at the Delacorte. (Photo by Michal Daniel)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); THEATER (89%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%) Theater; Company and Organization Profiles; Philanthropy; Delacorte Theater; Theater; Theater; Finances

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (57%) Jason Zinoman; Mara Manus; William (1564-1616) Shakespeare

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



218 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: University Land Grab

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Stony Brook Trying to Seize Land'' (June 27):
 I attended two meetings concerning SUNY Stony Brook's attempt to condemn 246 acres owned by the Gyrodyne Company of North America. I learned that the university intends to use the land to build 10 ''incubators'' -- buildings that will be rented to small, presumably high-tech businesses. In other words, the state university will serve as the landlord for private companies.
 Am I correct in concluding, then, that our state government is now legally able to condemn privately held land (Gyrodyne's), pay for it with public funds, develop it with public funds and then open it for use by private businesses, which will surely pay discounted rent? And all of this will happen in a residential neighborhood, which will surely suffer economic and environmental damage? The university is putting its presumably prestigious face on corporate welfare, but this time, even the law seems forgotten.

Vicki Janik
Stony Brook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%) Colleges and Universities; Small Business; Science and Technology; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Stony Brook; Gyrodyne Company of North America

PERSON: Vicki Janik

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



219 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 6; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Nets Stadium? Not So Fast

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 With regard to your call for a ''truly independent examination'' on the Brooklyn Nets arena proposal, I would like to emphasize that the economic analysis produced by Gustav Peebles and me was done independently and without payment. Furthermore, a third-party analysis would represent only one step in a comprehensive review process.
 Your editorial does not seem to recognize that there are other development options for both the Atlantic Yards and the Far West Side. The choices are not limited to a sports arena versus no development at all. A thorough review would consult the public, draw competitive proposals and account for all possible development alternatives, including ones in the case of the Atlantic Yards that do not require the use of eminent domain.
 Forest City Ratner's own data show the arena to be a money-loser, and anyone in the real estate field would recognize the scheme's office component as highly speculative. And yet we are asked to hand over hundreds of millions in subsidies without exploring options that could be both more profitable for the developer and beneficial to the community.
 It is a sad statement on how the State of New York conducts its business that a major paper like The Times does not view eminent domain as an extreme measure.

JUNG KIM
Bronx

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); BASKETBALL (75%) Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas; Football; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (59%) New Jersey Nets; New York Jets

PERSON: Jung Kim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



220 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: 'Smart Growth' and Soccer Moms

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your June 27 articles ''Transit by Pedal or Foot'' and ''Changing the Face of Real Estate Developments'' both point out pros and cons of the use of the term ''smart growth'' -- good if it is true to its name regarding sustainability, bad if it is used in name only, to ''sell'' a development project that is contrary to issues of sustainability.
 I have heard Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, say to beware of the term, saying ''there is only good planning and bad planning.''
 It would be valuable for critics to actually provide the public with the definition of ''smart growth.'' For instance, the frequently suggested linkage of ''smart growth'' with ''new urbanism'' is questionable. New urbanism, while claiming to be traditional planning, typically proposes development projects on open ''green'' sites. Thus they take away open space for new automobile-oriented residential enclaves.
 I believe that there is an entirely opposite smart growth potential of revitalizing existing towns and villages with the same program of new higher density residential zoning on and adjacent to existing ''main streets.'' Walking to work, adaptive re-use of existing buildings and making undeveloped land into ''green belt'' parkland are undeniably ''smart growth'' and fundamental to sustainability.
 Almost all the older existing towns on the north and south shore and some of the newer ones in between could be revitalized into wonderful places to live, work and visit. This is not new; in fact it is ''old urbanism,'' the way cities have evolved for centuries.

Jon Michael Schwarting
Port Jefferson

The writer is director, graduate program in urban and regional design, New York Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (88%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Land Use Policies

PERSON: Jon Michael Schwarting

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



221 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Sex, Race and the City

BYLINE: By Tessa Hadley. 
Tessa Hadley is the author of two novels, ''Accidents in the Home'' and ''Everything Will Be All Right.''

 BODY:

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
By Don Lee.
315 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95.
 THE central preoccupations of Don Lee's first novel feel like urgent issues for our times. The characters wrestle with slippery questions of race and identity, and the story unfolds in that liminal space where America interacts with another culture. Here it is Japan: a white-looking young American woman named Lisa Countryman disappears in 1980 into the underworld of Tokyo's sex trade. All the cliches that formula might evoke -- wholesome American girl lost to the unfathomable corruptions of the Oriental Other -- are complicated in this novel, however, and in the end flipped upside down. Lisa is in fact neither white nor straightforwardly American; and it is her quest for her ''real'' origins that has led her into danger. The truth about what has happened to her turns out to be comic-grotesque rather than tragic-poignant, and has more to do with her own angst and longings than with the machinations of any evil exploiter. 
 Rather than constructing the plot of ''Country of Origin'' around the conventional thriller certainties of us and them, Don Lee -- he is the longtime editor of the literary journal Ploughshares and the author of ''Yellow,'' a story collection -- insists we become aware of the complex and shifting bases for our identity and our behavior. At first glance the world of this novel seems polarized between the American community, centered on the United States Embassy, and a busy, economically buoyant Tokyo. The Americans are assertively individualistic, the Japanese a conformist community hidebound by tradition. Beneath the surface of American confidence, though, lurks extraordinary anxiety about identity. Tom Hurley, the young official assigned to Lisa's case, is half-white and half-Korean, but he habitually lies and says he's Hawaiian, ''a declaration of racial neutrality.'' Harmless enough: but the lies, once they've begun, accumulate. 
 When Tom begins an affair with Julia, the American wife of a Japanese C.I.A. operative also attached to the embassy, he can't stop himself from telling her, falsely, that in Hawaii he was a top surfer and that he is a graduate of U.C.L.A. Meanwhile, Julia lets him believe, wrongly, in the old-money, private-school image she projects. When Lisa Countryman's sister arrives in Tokyo, everyone involved in investigating the disappearance is thrown by the discovery that she's black; Lisa turns out to be adopted and half-black, half-Korean. Tom's fellow officers at the embassy -- Benny, who is black, and Jorge, who is Chicano -- grumble endlessly (and, the novel suggests, with some justification) about how their race prevents them from getting promoted. In this novel's American melting pot, racial identities stubbornly persist, and matter; on the other hand, they can't offer a definitive account of who anyone is. Tom is used to being asked, ''Where are you from?'' and ''What are you?'' This is code, he believes, for ''You don't look like a real American.'' 
 The labyrinthine conventions that govern Japanese society start to seem fairly transparent by comparison -- although there's no sentimentality about those, either. Lee stresses the unapologetic, institutionalized racial exclusivity of the Japanese, from high school girls giggling at an African on the subway to a maternity nurse's casual talk of how mixed-race babies have ''polluted'' the planet. The Japanese words scattered in Lee's prose habituate the reader to a Japanese perception of whites as dubious gaijin who emanate a ''butter stink'' from eating too much dairy. Kenzo Ota, perhaps the most sympathetic of the central characters, is a conventional enough middle-aged Japanese detective, longing to be moved from his shaming position at the dreaded window desk in the office, wishing he weren't stamped as a loser by the stigma of divorce. Whether he likes it or not, however, he's an embodiment of a Japan in the throes of profound change. 
 There's a touching moment when Kenzo burns a bundle of reeds on the walkway outside his apartment, a residual gesture that halfheartedly stands in for the full ritual of the Buddhist Festival of the Dead; it's not worth going home to the city of his ancestors because he doesn't know anyone there anymore. He's mistaken, too, about the identity of a boy he thinks must be his son. In Japan, as in America, identity is being shaken loose from traditional moorings. Kenzo's obsession with noise -- he changes apartments to get away from the whir of an air-conditioner, only to find himself tormented by the grinding motor of his new refrigerator -- reflects his quest for a lost perfect peace and wholeness that can't really exist any longer in his contemporary troubled city.
 ''Country of Origin'' doesn't altogether deliver on the promise of this interesting material. It has all the right ingredients for a thriller: a missing girl, a variety of suspects, two men on the case, entanglements in high places and a tour through some of the more bizarre aspects of the Tokyo sex trade. It's a good idea structurally, too, that the account of Lisa's months in Japan leading up to her disappearance is woven into the narrative of the search for her; this takes us into some fascinating locales and also underscores our urgent need to find out what has happened to her. But the unraveling plot isn't built with the right degree of ingenious tight fit. The few surprises aren't surprising or convincing enough; the final twist in Lisa's search for her roots, a nice curiosity in itself, doesn't feel adequately momentous to carry, as it must, the emotional weight of our loss and our discovery. 
 Lee never quite finds a comfortable register for the novel's language, which has a secondhand, superficial quality: ''She had never had the audience of such an elegant, good-looking man before, and the wonderful thing was that he seemed interested in her.'' And there is not much evidence of an effort to remake perception freshly in words. People walk off ''briskly,'' Julia's singing performance is ''rousing'' and ''soulful'' and at the end of it Tom is ''already half in love with her.'' This isn't a genre narrative where well-worn phrases become a stylistic choice; the sentences instead seem slack and loose. Whatever power a novel has to move us, and to make us think, depends on the power of the exact words chosen. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Lee, whose characters wrestle with questions of race and identity in his first novel, ''Country of Origin.'' (Photograph by Michelle McDonald)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Tessa Hadley; Don Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



222 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7182 words

HEADLINE: In Deaths at Rail Crossings, Missing Evidence and Silence

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH; Jenny Nordberg contributed reporting for this article. Tom Torok contributed data analysis and reporting. Eric Koli contributed reporting from San Francisco.

 BODY:
At 5:45 p.m., with the autumn sun dipping toward the horizon, Blas Lopez, a father of four young children, drove his truck loaded with potatoes bound for market onto a railroad crossing in south-central Washington State. In an instant, a 4,700-ton Union Pacific train rammed Mr. Lopez's truck with the force of an explosion, ripping apart his body.
 Union Pacific responded as most railroads do after fatal crossing accidents: It blamed the victim, Mr. Lopez, not itself. 
 What Union Pacific did not say was that the warning signal at the crossing contained parts that the manufacturer had said, 12 years earlier, should be replaced ''as soon as possible'' because they might be defective. After a witness to the accident said the signal appeared to have malfunctioned, a lawyer for Mr. Lopez's family arranged with Union Pacific in October 2001 to inspect the signal. 
 But a railroad manager beat the lawyer there by several hours. In the predawn darkness, the manager secretly swapped the suspect parts for newer ones. The cover-up was not discovered until weeks later, when the Lopezes' lawyer noticed that the serial numbers on the parts did not match the railroad's records.
 Union Pacific's conduct is a stark example of how some railroads, even as they blame motorists, repeatedly sidestep their own responsibility in grade-crossing fatalities. Their actions range from destroying, mishandling or simply losing evidence to not reporting the crashes properly in the first place, a seven-month investigation by The New York Times has found. 
 Union Pacific stands out. In one recent 18-month period, seven federal and state courts imposed sanctions on Union Pacific, the nation's biggest railroad, for destroying or failing to preserve evidence in crossing accidents, and an eighth court ordered a case retried. One sanction has since been overturned on appeal.
 Over the last eight years, railroads have also broken federal rules by failing to promptly report hundreds of fatal accidents, 71 of them last year, denying the federal authorities the chance to investigate when evidence is fresh and still available, according to a computer analysis of federal data by The Times. Enforcement of these rules is so lax that federal officials said they were not even aware of the reporting problems. 
 In fact, one Union Pacific official said that federal regulators told the railroad in late 1999 ''to stop calling'' after fatal accidents. Federal officials denied doing so, but the following year, The Times's analysis shows, the number of accidents not reported promptly by Union Pacific quadrupled. 
 Trains, like airplanes, have black-box event recorders, but records show that railroads have a spotty history of keeping them in working order and have sometimes lost or erased their information after crashes. The information from recorders can be so inconclusive that after one 17-year-old girl was killed in Tennessee, the railroad produced five different versions of the accident from the same black box.
 Since 2000, about 1,600 people have been killed in grade-crossing accidents, more than twice the number killed in commercial plane crashes. On average, one person a day dies at a crossing in the United States. But these deaths draw little national attention because they usually come one or two at a time, often where tracks slice through small towns and rural expanses.
 ''It's a systemic failure,'' said James E. Hall, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. ''It's been something that has just not grabbed the attention, unfortunately, of the public.''
 It has barely grabbed the attention of the government. Only the federal authorities, not the local police, have the power to investigate thoroughly a railroad's role in an accident. But of the nearly 3,000 rail crossing accidents last year, the federal authorities fully investigated just four.
 Families of victims searching for the cause of a crash have to ask the railroads themselves or file lawsuits. But as judges who have imposed sanctions against Union Pacific have found, getting an answer can be difficult.
 Kathryn Blackwell, a spokeswoman for Union Pacific, said her company's policy was to keep records as long as federal law requires. ''Union Pacific did not purposefully destroy evidence to keep it from the jury,'' Ms. Blackwell said. ''Union Pacific would not destroy documents in anticipation of litigation.''
 Yet Union Pacific was found to have knowingly destroyed relevant evidence after a collision in Arkansas that left Frank Stevenson brain damaged and killed his wife. Mr. Stevenson has since lost his job, his house and, he said, his stepchildren, who blame him for their mother's death. ''I have no family anymore,'' he said.
 Mr. Stevenson's injuries left him without any memory of the accident. But when he filed a lawsuit, Union Pacific had purged some of its own institutional memory of the accident, records show. Track inspection records that might have shown the crossing was hazardous were discarded after Mr. Stevenson asked for them. Tapes of the train's crew talking to dispatchers before the accident were not preserved. The train's black box was not much help, either: It malfunctioned and did not record the horn. 
 ''Documents have been routinely destroyed despite defendant's knowledge that they are relevant to this lawsuit,'' Judge William R. Wilson of Federal District Court wrote in 2001, referring to Union Pacific. And, he added, ''This does not square with the discovery rules nor with 'traditional notions of fair play and justice.'''

Between the Cracks
 Harvey Levine remembers the day in the mid-1990's when, as a vice president of the Association of American Railroads, he suggested that railroads, not just drivers, might share responsibility for grade-crossing collisions.
 The reaction was swift.
 ''Another vice president said, 'Why don't you shut up and sit down,''' recalled Dr. Levine, an economist and a former railroad employee. ''I knew the next sentence out of my mouth was going to cost me my job.''
 With two children in college, Dr. Levine said he did not argue the point.
 Railroads and the federal government have spent millions of dollars educating the public about the motorist's responsibility for avoiding trains. ''Always Expect A Train!'' has become the slogan of the railroads as well as their principal regulator, the Federal Railroad Administration.
 ''Motorists can stop quickly, trains cannot,'' said Ms. Blackwell, the Union Pacific spokeswoman.
 Grade-crossing deaths have declined by more than 50 percent since 1990 and both the industry and regulators say the educational campaign has contributed to the decline. But Dr. Levine, who has testified for accident victims, said a bigger reason was that tens of thousands of crossings have been closed and the government has paid to install gates or lights at many other crossings. Still, most of the nation's 250,000 crossings have no warning lights or gates, and grade-crossing deaths are up 10 percent for the first four months of this year, compared with the same period a year earlier. 
 Many accidents are indeed caused by careless or reckless driving. A federal study released late last month blamed ''risky driver behavior or poor judgment'' for 87 percent of fatal crossing accidents over the last decade. The audit, though, was based mostly on accident reports from the railroads themselves. In fact, as Ms. Blackwell of Union Pacific acknowledges, railroads are sometimes at fault, too. 
 Overgrown vegetation can block a driver's view. Gates or lights can fail. An engineer may blow a horn too late. ''In order to avoid that train, you have to be able to see the train and to hear the train,'' said John E. Parker, a South Carolina lawyer who represents crossing accident victims. 
 Yet, in most cases, no one thoroughly investigates the railroads' conduct.
 The industry has worked to keep the power to investigate grade-crossing accidents centered in Washington, where it has long been an influential force. Vice President Dick Cheney served on Union Pacific's board and the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, is a former chief executive of CSX.
 But the federal authorities rarely use those investigative powers in crossing accidents.
 ''We typically will only look at those that have extraordinary or unusual circumstances,'' said Warren Flatau, a railroad administration spokesman. That usually means three or more deaths in a single accident. More federal attention is paid to derailments and train-on-train collisions. And although states can punish railroads for unsafe crossings, they usually do not.
 Families of victims have found it hard to get the government to do more. ''You are fighting a war with wounded soldiers here,'' said Vicky Moore, whose 16-year-old son, Ryan, was killed in 1995 at one rural Ohio crossing where at least six other people have died.
 When an accident happens it is usually up to the local police alone to investigate, but their power over railroads is so limited that they lack the authority, for example, to seize an event recorder or to order a train's crew to be tested for drugs or alcohol.
 ''We are not given information we need to thoroughly investigate,'' said Tom Mockbee, police chief in Waldo, Ark., who has investigated crossing accidents. ''Their attitude is if I don't get it, they don't have to defend it.''

The Barber Case
 It was hardly a secret that the railroad crossing just west of Palestine, Ark., was dangerous. Like many of Union Pacific's crossings in the area, this one, known as Crossing 123, had no lights or gates.
 Overgrown vegetation made the crossing especially hazardous, said Willetta Carroll, the mayor of Palestine, population 700.
 ''You had to be on the track before you could see the train,'' Mayor Carroll said. The mayor, whose sister-in-law died at a rail crossing in Palestine, said she complained often to Union Pacific without success.
 So did Carl Jones, a garbage truck driver, who said he had contacted the railroad 7 to 10 times about Crossing 123, according to court records. Once, Mr. Jones said, he stopped a Union Pacific worker on the road to tell him the crossing was life-threatening.
 Union Pacific employees noticed the danger, too. Willie Savage, who supervised track workers, thought the crossing was so dangerous that he had flagmen stop traffic before his men crossed the road in their rail cars, court records show. And Donald DePriest said that when he worked as an engineer he told the railroad that the crossing endangered the public and rail employees.
 The warnings came true at 9:15 a.m. on Jan. 19, 1998, when a garbage truck driven by Charles Rolfe pulled up to Crossing 123. ''We started easing up to the crossing until we practically got on the track itself -- you couldn't see anything,'' said Chris Barber, Mr. Rolfe's co-worker who was in the truck.
 Suddenly, Mr. Barber turned his head and saw a giant yellow engine. ''I put my head down and prayed,'' he recalled in an interview. The impact killed Mr. Rolfe. Mr. Barber spent the next two months in a hospital and rehabilitation center, recovering from a skull fracture, broken neck, collapsed lung and various other broken bones. He still has trouble walking.
 Federal authorities did not investigate the crash and Mr. Barber sued Union Pacific, saying the railroad failed to keep the crossing safe, to properly sound the train's horn and to operate the train at a safe speed. Union Pacific denied each of those accusations in court.
 In preparing for the trial in 2002, Mr. Barber's lawyers found several people who said they were nearly killed at the crossing. The lawyers also wanted audiotapes of the railroad's dispatchers talking to the crew, track inspection records and any ''slow orders'' directing trains to reduce their speed near the crossing because of hazardous conditions.
 Union Pacific, however, said the tapes had been recorded over and the track reports had been discarded, some after Mr. Barber asked for them. The railroad also said it could find no slow orders for the crossing. Even so, Mr. Barber's lawyers sent a consultant, Alan J. Blackwell, a former Union Pacific manager, to Union Pacific headquarters in Omaha to search for slow orders. Mr. Blackwell (who is not related to the railroad's spokeswoman) eventually found some for the track around Crossing 123, despite the railroad's claims that they did not exist.
 Union Pacific's conduct earned it a sanction from the presiding judge, who told the jury that it could -- but was not required to -- conclude that the missing evidence was not favorable to the railroad.
 At the trial, Robert L. Pottroff, a lawyer representing Mr. Barber, stacked empty boxes in the courtroom that he said represented missing evidence. ''By the time we got done there were a dozen empty boxes,'' said Mr. Pottroff, a Kansas lawyer who has helped to organize a legal assault on how Union Pacific handles evidence.
 The jury awarded Mr. Barber $5.1 million in compensatory damages and $25 million in punitive damages.
 Union Pacific appealed, but the Arkansas Supreme Court upheld the verdict this year in a blistering opinion that said Union Pacific behaved with a ''high degree of reprehensibility.''
 ''This case reflects the development of a corporate policy at Union Pacific that put company profits before public safety,'' the court wrote. ''Union Pacific intentionally destroyed track records and voice tapes. Furthermore, there is evidence from which a jury would reasonably conclude that Union Pacific attempted to conceal 'slow orders' issued for this portion of track.''
 Union Pacific has asked the United States Supreme Court to review the case. Ms. Blackwell, the company spokeswoman, said some documents were mistakenly destroyed after they were requested in court because of human error. ''It's not something that we are proud of,'' she said. ''But unfortunately, people make mistakes.'' 
 Union Pacific has also put in place a more aggressive, systemwide program to control vegetation at crossings, the company said. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Barber said his case left him skeptical that the railroad had changed. ''They thought they could get away with it as they always had in the past,'' he said. 

A Change in Policy
 Union Pacific's attitude toward investigating grade-crossing accidents was once very different, three former managers with the railroad said.
 Those managers said in interviews that from the mid-1980's until the early 1990's, the company was transformed by a new chief executive, Michael H. Walsh, who wanted a more aggressive, open search for the causes of accidents.
 ''It was a whole new concept,'' said Mr. Blackwell, a former manager of track maintenance for Union Pacific. ''His theory was basically completely opposite from the law department's theory where you do not admit anything because there is liability.'' 
 This new philosophy, said Mr. Blackwell, who left the company in 1995, was embodied in a company manual, ''Accident Investigation Guidelines.'' ''The investigator must recognize that in some situations management may have failed to comply with a duty or responsibility, which may result in clear liability on the part of the company,'' the manual states.
 Under Mr. Walsh, Mr. Blackwell said, ''all documents, everything, was to be preserved, not just what was good for the railroad.''
 But the corporation's attitude began to change after Mr. Walsh, who has since died, left the company in August 1991, said the former managers, who have testified on behalf of accident victims. Mr. Blackwell said the company issued a new manual that focused less on rooting out the causes of accidents than on protecting the company.
 Claims investigators were instructed not to share their findings with other departments, unless permission was granted. The revised manual also noted that ''no useful purpose is served by extensively documenting evidence'' when company liability is obvious. Instead, it said, the company should try to settle claims quickly and fairly.
 The manual advised care in deciding ''the degree and extent to which obviously harmful and possibly inflammatory evidence is documented.'' For example, the company said ''gory'' pictures might inflame the jury. ''Statements documenting hazardous conditions in great detail serve only the same purpose when such conditions are known to have existed,'' the manual stated.
 Company investigators were further cautioned about taking pictures of any obstructions that might have blocked a motorist's view. ''A panoramic view taken at one point might show a possible view obstruction, while an unobstructed view may be demonstrated by moving slightly closer to or away from the crossing,'' the manual stated.
 It also recommended that investigators document evidence that could implicate the motorist, including photographing the vehicle's speedometer, and the controls for the radio, air conditioner, heater and stereo -- all possible signs that a driver was distracted or might not have heard the train horn.
 The railroad also did not want certain interviews and conversations taped, including those with train crews. Mr. Blackwell, the former manager, said he was told by a company official that when investigating an accident he should use private phone lines rather than communicating by radios, which are often recorded.
 Ms. Blackwell, the Union Pacific spokeswoman, said the company's procedures for investigating an accident scene were not intended to hide anything. ''There's no desire to alter what the motorist would see, only a desire to show what he would have seen,'' she said. She also said the instructions should be viewed in the context of the whole manual, which says to conduct a full and fair investigation, including collecting evidence ''even though it might be detrimental to the company's position.''
 Ms. Blackwell said the manual was replaced early last year with an updated version.

Sanctions Pile Up
 Michael Easley, a lawyer representing Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Barber, said the manual Union Pacific used for many years reveals an agenda. ''This shows an investigation that's not looking for the truth but for an advantage,'' Mr. Easley said.
 Other major railroads have been accused of seeking a similar advantage.
 After Debbie and Eddie Wood lost their daughter at a crossing in Cleveland, Mo., in 1998, their lawyer sent a letter to Kansas City Southern railroad that ended with the plea, ''Please do not destroy any evidence.'' But the railroad not only destroyed dispatch tapes and black-box data, it also ''lied'' about its brush-cutting records, according to a ruling by Judge Marco A. Roldan of Circuit Court in Jackson County who imposed sanctions on the railroad last year.
 A spokesman for the railroad declined to comment because another lawsuit related to the accident is pending.
 When Kenneth D. Breinig's 16-year-old son was killed at a crossing near their rural Nebraska home in 1997, Mr. Breinig accused the railroad that owned the track, the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, of clearing the overgrown vegetation only after the accident occurred.
 Patrick Hiatte, a spokesman for Burlington Northern, said his company had solid evidence that the railroad cleared the vegetation several hours before the accident. But Mr. Breinig's lawyer found witnesses who said it was done afterward, and the railroad settled with the family for undisclosed terms after being sued. ''They tried to say that it was done the day before the accident, but we had too many witnesses,'' said Mr. Breinig, who was a minister but quit after his son's death.
 ''It was a cover-up,'' he said.
 Still, Union Pacific's record of seven court sanctions between July 2001 and January 2003 for destroying or failing to preserve evidence -- the legal term is spoliation -- stands out. ''There is hardly an excuse for one incident of spoliation, and I can't imagine an excuse for seven,'' said Steven Lubet, who has taught legal ethics at the Northwestern University School of Law. ''It is extremely unusual.''
 Sanctions have included fines and jury instructions that were unfavorable to the railroads.
 Union Pacific lawyers have argued in court that documents and tapes were discarded as part of the company's ''document retention'' policy, which states that tapes of crew conversations be recycled after 90 days and track inspection reports be discarded after a year, which is how long federal law requires that they be kept. 
 ''Nothing wrong with housekeeping, but once there is knowledge of the possibility of litigation, that trumps housekeeping,'' said Mr. Lubet. ''Document retention policy is a euphemism for document destruction.''
 The sanctioning judges seemed to agree.
 In July 2001, for example, Judge Wilson imposed sanctions against Union Pacific in the Frank Stevenson case for destroying records, but noted that the railroad kept dispatch tapes when they aided the company's defense. ''Can one not reasonably infer that when U.P. believes the voice tape is favorable, it preserves it?'' Judge Wilson wrote.
 A week later, a Louisiana appellate court said that given the railroad's failure to produce documents and tapes, ''a trier of fact could easily conclude that Union Pacific negligently or intentionally failed to preserve this evidence.'' Yet, the court noted, ''the documents important to Union Pacific's defense seemed to always be available.''
 Then in January 2002, a Kansas state judge, Robert J. Fleming, concluded that Union Pacific's policy of recording over the tape served no purpose ''other than to keep the voice tapes out of the hands of the plaintiffs.'' 
 In November of that year, Magistrate Judge Jerry Cavaneau of Federal District Court in Arkansas criticized Union Pacific for destroying dispatch tapes and discarding a safety warning sign, which the victim's family contended was faded and difficult to see. Union Pacific, the judge ruled, ''knew litigation was likely and knew or should have known that the condition of the warning devices at the intersection could be an issue.''
 Last month, a federal appeals court overturned one sanction that had been imposed against Union Pacific in Arkansas, concluding that the railroad had not acted in ''bad faith'' by discarding audiotapes.
 Ms. Blackwell of Union Pacific said the sanctions were mostly due to a legal strategy of several victims' lawyers to shift attention from the accidents to the company's record retention policies, which judges had previously found not to be a problem. Even so, Ms. Blackwell said, Union Pacific now realizes the evidence should have been kept. ''We've been punished,'' she said. ''So I think we've learned our lesson.''
 She said that last October it had put into place ''new procedures to locate and retrieve all reasonably relevant crossing accident documents and preserve them far beyond federal requirements.'' 
 In Brinkley, Ark., however, some people still question the railroad's commitment.
 On Feb. 11, a Union Pacific train struck a vehicle at a crossing that had no lights or gates, seriously injuring the driver, Joshua Armstrong, who had just dropped off his two children at a baby sitter's house on his way to nursing school. Mr. Armstrong remained in a coma for two months, his relatives said.
 Officer Jason Martin of the Brinkley Police Department arrived on the scene minutes after the crash. After helping Mr. Armstrong, whose pickup had been pushed down the track, Officer Martin noticed people wearing Union Pacific uniforms back at the crossing. Only later, Officer Martin said, did he realize that they had cut vegetation around the crossing before he had a chance to assess whether it might have blocked Mr. Armstrong's view of the train.
 ''I was upset that they did not let us know what they were doing,'' he said. To document their activity, Officer Martin said he has pictures of the fresh cuts. ''Why didn't they go out there to cut those bushes a week before?'' he asked. ''That doesn't look good.''
 The officer also expressed concern about a second Union Pacific train that had been parked on a parallel track near the crossing. Officer Martin said that before he could measure how close the parked train -- which could have blocked Mr. Armstrong's view of the oncoming train -- was to the crossing, railroad workers backed it farther away.
 To establish how far that second train moved, Officer Martin said he asked the railroad for data from the engine's event recorder. But five months later he said he had not received it. 
 Yet another problem arose, Officer Martin said, when he noticed that someone had taken bulbs from the brake lights in Mr. Armstrong's truck after it was towed from the accident scene.
 The officer said he did not know what happened to the bulbs. The railroad's accident reconstruction team, he said, denied taking them. But whoever took them, he said, probably knew their value in an investigation. ''What the bulbs do is tell if the brakes had been applied or not,'' Officer Martin said. And that could indicate whether Mr. Armstrong saw the train before it struck him.
 Officer Martin said he was certain about one thing: ''I won't get them back.''
 Ms. Blackwell, the Union Pacific spokeswoman, said that because she expects the Armstrong case to result in a lawsuit, she would not comment except to deny all the accusations made by the Brinkley police.
 The Brinkley mayor, Billy Clay, said: ''We are at the mercy of the railroads.'' And he added, ''Their philosophy is, 'Hey, we were there first and you built the town around us.' This is their attitude.''
 If the Armstrong family does decide to sue Union Pacific, it will have to go forward without one of its witnesses, a young mother, Kelly Turner, who lived near the crossing. Two months after Mr. Armstrong's accident, Ms. Turner was killed in a crash at the same crossing.

Accidents Go Unreported
 A basic maxim of accident investigations is the sooner evidence is collected, the better.
 ''Decades of experience in accident investigation have taught F.R.A. that the best information is often available only very early in the investigation, before physical evidence is disturbed and memories cloud,'' according to railroad administration policy.
 For that reason, federal rules require railroads to quickly report by telephone crossing fatalities to the National Response Center, which functions as a 911 call center. Those reports are forwarded to the railroad administration and National Transportation Safety Board, where officials decide whether to dispatch investigators.
 The safety board had required railroads to report crossing fatalities within six hours, but in 1989 the deadline was shortened to two hours after the board found ''numerous instances'' where investigators could not get to the scene before the post-accident cleanup had begun.
 But the safety board regulation carried no enforcement power, so in May 2003 the railroad administration began requiring that railroads report fatalities immediately.
 Despite these federal regulations, railroads repeatedly ignore them, according to a computer analysis by The Times of tens of thousands of federal accident reports compiled by the National Response Center and the railroad administration.
 The analysis found that over the last eight years about 750 fatal accidents were not reported to the response center. These accidents were eventually reported to the railroad administration in monthly filings, but that made timely investigations by the federal officials difficult if not impossible. 
 Because some victims may have died more than 24 hours after the crash -- and their deaths would not have to be reported to the response center -- the total violations over the eight years cannot be definitively stated. But for accidents in 2003, The Times examined police reports and coroner records to establish times of death and found 71 fatalities, or nearly 25 percent of all fatal crashes that year, that should have been reported but were not. 
 Of those, the greatest number, 46, involve Union Pacific. Another 8 were not reported properly by CSX.
 The Times provided its findings to the safety board and the railroad administration. Paul Schlamm, a spokesman for the safety board, said he had referred the cases ''for appropriate follow-up,'' and he added, ''We expect railroad operators to comply with this requirement.'' 
 But the railroad administration, said its spokesman, Mr. Flatau, ''is not required or obligated'' to enforce these rules. ''Rather, it is a matter subject to nuanced prosecutorial discretion,'' he said.
 Adam Hollingsworth, a CSX spokesman, said, ''We have put in place additional procedures to ensure that those notifications are made.'' 
 Ms. Blackwell of Union Pacific acknowledged that some accidents were not reported properly, but said that according to two company managers, the Federal Railroad Administration told the railroad in October or November of 1999 not to tell the response center about every crossing fatality. ''They both say that the F.R.A. asked us to stop calling the N.R.C.,'' Ms. Blackwell wrote in an e-mail message. She declined to provide further details.
 Steven W. Kulm, a Federal Railroad Administration spokesman, said he was unaware of any such instructions, and noted that the agency has strengthened reporting requirements. Nonetheless, figures show that the number of fatalities not reported by Union Pacific to the response center quadrupled in 2000, the year after the railroad said it was contacted by federal regulators.
 On Thursday, Ms. Blackwell said that after receiving The Times's analysis, ''our vice chairman and our president have authorized an internal audit of all of our reporting processes.'' She added that ''based on our obvious failures in these areas you have highlighted, they are checking the whole company.'' That check has uncovered 10 fatal accidents this year that were not reported to the response center, she said.
 Even when companies do report fatal accidents to the response center, they often report them late. Federal records indicate that from 1996 through 2003 as many as 800 fatal accidents were reported to the response center later than the two hours required. 
 Prompt notification can be especially important when an accident involves a report of malfunctioning gates or warning lights at a crossing. That was the case after a fatal accident on July 9, 2003, when a Union Pacific train traveling more than 60 miles per hour rammed a car at a crossing in Mecca, Calif., a tiny town southeast of Los Angeles.
 According to a police report, Aniano Arce, 76, was behind the wheel of his Toyota waiting for an approaching train to pass. The crossing gate had lowered automatically. Across the tracks from Mr. Arce, Esteban Rojas was also waiting to cross. 
 Suddenly, Mr. Rojas noticed the gate on Mr. Arce's side rise, suggesting that it was safe to proceed. Mr. Rojas said he watched Mr. Arce slowly make his way across the tracks when the train hit Mr. Arce's car, killing him.
 ''I was shocked,'' said Mr. Rojas, who told the police that he was certain that the gate had malfunctioned. ''That is why I stuck around; I couldn't believe it,'' he said. He repeated that account to The Times and said had he told the same story to Union Pacific representatives who visited his house.
 A railroad official told the police that the gates were checked and found to be working properly, but the police investigator was skeptical. After noting that the base of one of the warning units was cracked and bent, the officer concluded that the crossing gate failed ''to operate properly,'' according to a police report.
 Last September The Times asked the railroad administration about the accident that killed Mr. Arce in July. ''I'm not seeing that at the moment,'' said Mr. Flatau, the agency spokesman. In fact, Union Pacific had not reported the accident to the National Response Center.
 Union Pacific reported the fatality to the federal authorities in its monthly accident filings, but because the filings are processed through a contractor, they did not reach Washington for two months, Mr. Flatau said.
 Immediate notification might have prompted an investigation, he said. A state official did eventually inspect the gates and found nothing wrong with them, but that was more than one week after the accident.
 One of the railroad administration's top safety officials, Grady C. Cothen Jr., wrote in an internal e-mail message made available to The Times, ''I don't see any reason to be excessively critical of U.P. in this case, as I understand the facts.'' He said, ''I don't see this as a case where a civil penalty is likely to help.''

Black Boxes
 In 1969, just two years after its inception by Congress, the National Transportation Safety Board began a campaign to require event recorders on all trains on main routes, just as it does on airplanes.
 That campaign lasted a quarter century because the railroads and the railroad administration argued that the cost of recorders outweighed their benefit.
 Safety board investigators strongly disagreed. ''The Safety Board's views are shaped by years of experience in using recorders to help reconstruct and 'solve' aircraft accidents,'' the agency stated in 1988.
 Although many trains had carried black-box event recorders to monitor crew behavior, records showed that without federal rules, railroads taped over data, incorrectly recorded information from the recorders, lost data or even lost the recorder itself. Sometimes railroads said they simply forgot to install a recorder. In a few rare cases, railroads were accused of tampering with a recorder or manipulating its results.
 The safety board finally prevailed, and starting in 1995 trains that go faster than 30 miles an hour were required to carry event recorders. But in 1999, a safety board report concluded that ''missing or erroneous data continue to occur at an alarming rate.'' That report, presented at a symposium on event recorders, concluded that poor maintenance ''may be an industrywide problem'' due in part to weak government regulations.
 Early last year, when a railroad administration inspector visited Norfolk Southern's locomotive shop in Chattanooga, Tenn., he found that event records were not being properly inspected.
 On a return trip in August, he found ''no action had been taken'' to correct the problem. Moreover, a spot check of four locomotives found black-box data from two showing train speeds of 158 miles per hour and 137 miles per hour. Those speeds far exceed the limit for freight trains, indicating the event recorders malfunctioned. A railroad official admitted that the company ''had dropped the ball,'' records show.
 Then, last February, the federal authorities reported that some Norfolk Southern trains still had problems, but they praised the railroad for improving. Whatever the problems were, ''we fixed it,'' said Frank Brown, a spokesman for Norfolk Southern.
 After winning the fight to require event recorders, the safety board pushed to make them crash-worthy. In December 2000, the safety board said it was ''very concerned at the lack of progress'' by the railroad administration, noting that hundreds of new locomotives were being equipped with recorders that might not survive a crash. 
 ''A lot of the industry, certainly, was not very receptive to having recorders,'' said Jim Cash, chief of the vehicle recorder division of the safety board. ''And so it was kind of a way of delaying that process by dickering over crash-viability standards.'' 
 Although rules on making event recorders crash-worthy are expected soon, full implementation could take several years, according to the safety board. 
 Families of victims also criticize regulators for allowing railroads to keep custody of the recorders in all accidents except the few investigated by federal officials. 
 That differs from the airline industry. ''United Airlines doesn't download and determine what was said or wasn't said,'' complained Robert A. Schuetze, a Colorado lawyer who represents crash victims. ''But in the railroad industry, they control it.''
 And railroads are sometimes reluctant to share their data. 
 A Colorado state trooper, Brian C. Lyons, testified last year that in an accident reconstruction course taught by Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway, he was instructed on the importance of getting the contents of a train's black box. Yet, in his first grade-crossing accident investigation, which involved a Burlington Northern train, Trooper Lyons said the railroad refused to give him a printout of the data for six to eight months. A spokesman for Burlington Northern said the data were turned over sooner than that.
 Families of accident victims have had similar problems. J. Roberto Oaxaca, a Texas lawyer, said Burlington Northern failed to produce black-box data after had he asked for it in two fatal accidents.
 In one case, two boys, ages 10 and 12, were killed at a rail crossing in 1997 near Canutillo, Tex. Mr. Oaxaco said witnesses had not heard the train's horn. 
 ''We asked for the tape and they plain flat said there was no tape in the recorder,'' he said. ''The law required that they have an event recorder, but they said, 'We just messed up and didn't put a tape in it.''' The railroad confirmed that there was no tape, and it won the case.
 Mr. Oaxaco criticized the railroad administration for not punishing Burlington Northern. ''They should have investigated and should have cited somebody,'' he said. ''You can't say I just didn't have a tape.''

A Secret Switch
 This was to have been Blas Lopez's last year in the potato fields of Washington State. With a steady scrap metal business in McAllen, Tex., Mr. Lopez, 35, had tired of the long drive north during the potato harvest. ''He really didn't want to go up there,'' his wife, Ruth, recalled. But Mr. Lopez's brother convinced him there was money to be made, Ms. Lopez said. So he went.
 Mr. Lopez's last day of hauling potatoes began sometime between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m. on Sept. 27, 1997. About 12 to 14 hours later, weighed down with his final load, Mr. Lopez drove his truck up to a rail crossing east of the city of Pasco.
 The crossing had only warning lights, no gates, to protect drivers on the busy highway where the speed limit was 60 miles per hour. A private tree farm on one side of the crossing made it difficult to hear and see trains, nearby residents said.
 A Union Pacific engineer, Brian K. Baller, said that during his training he had been warned that drivers got dangerously close to trains at that crossing, according to court records. Mr. Baller said he had had two close calls, which he reported to the railroad. Once, a police car narrowly avoided a crash by stopping a mere foot or two short of the train. 
 In addition to the red flashing lights at crossing, there was a warning light about 700 feet from the crossing. The lights were supposed to activate simultaneously 20 seconds before a train entered the crossing.
 As Mr. Lopez approached, Helen Gibson was behind him in a truck. Ms. Gibson was familiar with the crossing, having once had a close call there because, she said, the warning lights began flashing too late.
 Ms. Gibson testified later that Mr. Lopez had already passed the first warning light before it began flashing. Another motorist said he saw Mr. Lopez shielding his eyes from the setting sun just before the train hit and killed him.
 After his wife and their four young children filed a lawsuit against Union Pacific, the railroad blamed Mr. Lopez. 
 The railroad even said in court papers that Mr. Lopez's negligence caused damage to its train and that the Lopez family should pay Union Pacific for ''loss of use of its locomotives, rail cars and equipment.''
 But the Lopez family's lawyer, Nicholas Scarpelli, focused on whether the accident was caused by a ''short signal,'' a warning light that activated too late.
 There were, however, problems with his case. The railroad denied the signal malfunctioned and on Oct. 16, 2001, seeking to have the Lopez case dismissed, the railroad presented a sworn affidavit from the regional signal manager, Robert Ryan, stating that the signal been inspected regularly with no problems reported. 
 Two days later Mr. Scarpelli told Mr. Ryan of his plan to inspect the signal box the next day. ''I asked Ryan, 'May we look in the box tomorrow morning?' and he said, 'Yeah,''' Mr. Scarpelli recalled. When Mr. Scarpelli and his expert inspected the signal box that morning with Mr. Ryan's help, they found nothing unusual. 
 That might have been the end of the Lopezes' case had Mr. Scarpelli's legal team not noticed more than a month later that the serial numbers on the parts they had inspected did not match those given to them by another representative of the railroad. 
 In a court proceeding Mr. Ryan explained under oath that he drove to the crossing a few hours before Mr. Scarpelli's inspection to replace potentially defective signal parts. A dozen years earlier, the manufacturer had reported that those parts had malfunctioned in one instance and cautioned that signals with those parts might fail to warn motorists of oncoming trains in time. In other words, they could cause a short signal.
 For that reason the manufacturer had urged that the parts be replaced. Mr. Ryan also admitted that as many as 60 percent of crossings in his region appeared to have the same suspect parts. ''It was a widespread problem,'' he said in a deposition.
 Mr. Scarpelli quickly asked the court for sanctions against Union Pacific and got them in February 2002. ''His actions were not that of a rogue underling,'' fumed Judge John C. Coughenour of Federal District Court. ''His acts were egregious. Severe sanctions are appropriate.''
 As punishment, Judge Coughenour ruled that at trial Union Pacific could not dispute that ''this defect caused the crossing signals to fail.'' The railroad settled the Lopez lawsuit soon after.
 Ms. Blackwell said Mr. Ryan, who is no longer with the company, ''was a good employee who made a very bad decision.'' Afterward, the company instituted a new centralized database to ensure that suspect signal parts are removed quickly, she said.
 But several weeks ago, after The Times asked about potentially defective parts that had not been removed from a signal at an Arkansas crossing where a woman had been killed, Ms. Blackwell said Union Pacific realized its tracking system was experiencing ''some technical difficulties.''
 Ms. Blackwell said that the railroad's senior management had ordered that the system be fixed quickly. ''They have put the highest priority on this,'' she said, adding, ''When we see that we've made a mistake and when we see that we can improve our processes, we take action.''

Death on the Tracks
 Articles in this series will examine the conduct of America's freight railroads in grade-crossing and other accidents, as well as the agencies that regulate the railway industry.
 TODAY: Sidestepping blame.
 MONDAY: The cost of silence.
 Photographs and audio interviews with survivors of crossing accidents are at nytimes.com/national.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Blas Lopez died at this railroad crossing in Washington State in 1997. Later, a Union Pacific manager secretly replaced suspect signal parts. (Photo by Cary Best/Tri-City Herald)(pg. 1)
Joshua Armstrong's Ford, top, was hit by a train. It now sits near a car hit at the same crossing weeks later. The second driver, a witness in Mr. Armstrong's case, died. Officer Jason Martin, above, said the railroad altered the Armstrong accident scene.
Frank Stevenson limped out his front door in March, showing effects of the crossing crash that left him brain damaged and killed his wife. After the crash, Mr. Stevenson sued, but the railroad had purged some of the evidence from his case, court records show. (pg. 20)
Chris Barber was injured and his co-worker was killed at this crossing near Palestine, Ark. The State Supreme Court later found that the railroad destroyed evidence in his case. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)
(Photo by David Nichol /Times-Herald)(pg. 21)
 Blas Lopez, right, was killed at a crossing in 1997. His wife, Ruth, is shown here with two of their children, Edgar and Yulisa. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times [left])(pg. 22)Chart: ''Missing Evidence: What the Judges Found''Since 2001, eight judges have taken action against Union Pacific for destroying or failing to preserve evidence in grade-crossing fatalities.Stevenson v. Union PacificJudge William R. Wilson of Federal District Court commenting on a crossing accident that killed a woman and seriously injured her husband in Vanndale, Ark.''Documents have been routinely destroyed despite defendants knowledge that they are relevant to this lawsuit. Moreover, documents have been routinely destroyed after plaintiffs have formally requested them in discovery. This does not square with the discovery rules nor with 'traditional notions of fair play and justice.' '' -- Sanctions issued, July 19, 2001N. Johnson v. Union PacificThe Court of Appeal in Louisiana after noting that Union Pacific had been asked to produce evidence about an accident in which a mother and two children were seriously injured by a train at a crossing in Oakdale.''Despite repeated requests for preservation and demands for production, Union Pacific failed to produce any of this evidence ... a trier of fact could easily conclude that Union Pacific negligently or intentionally failed to preserve this evidence ...'' -- Upheld order for a new trial, July 25, 2001Monohon v. Union PacificA Kansas state judge, Robert J. Fleming, on a crossing accident in which two people were killed and two injured when an ambulance was hit by a Union Pacific train in Labette County, Kan.''...no reason has been shown to justify a 90-day retention policy where there has been serious injury or death, other than to keep the voice tapes out of the hands of plaintiffs ... .'' -- Sanctions issued, Jan. 8, 2002Lopez v. Union PacificFederal Judge John C. Coughenour after noting that a manager tried to hide the railroad's failure to replace potentially defective parts in a signal in Washingon State.''His actions were not those of a rogue underling. He was an experienced manager who had specific contemporary knowledge of the modules' evidentiary significance. His acts were egregious. Severe sanctions are appropriate.'' -- Sanctions issued, Feb. 13, 2002Morris v. Union PacificJudge Harry F. Barnes of Federal District Court after noting that the railroad had destroyed voice tapes of an accident in which a man was seriously injured by a train in Columbia County, Ark.The railroad ''acted in bad faith because it was on notice that a serious injury had occurred.'' -- Sanction issued Sept. 19, 2002 (Sanction overturned by appeals court, which ruled that the railroad did not act in bad faith.)J. Johnson v. Union PacificJudge Jim Hudson of Circuit Court on an accident that killed a mother and daughter and injured the father and another passenger when a van was struck at a crossing in Arkansas.''I'm talking about the destruction of tapes that may have contained evidence relevant to this case after the railroad knew or should have known that deaths had occurred.'' -- Sanctions issued, Oct. 15, 2002Privett v. Union PacificMagistrate Judge Jerry Cavaneau of Federal District Court after noting that the railroad had discarded evidence in a crossing accident that killed the driver of a truck in Poinsett County, Ark.''Defendant knew litigation was likely and knew or should have known that the condition of the warning devices at the intersection could be at issue.'' -- Sanctions issued, Jan. 15, 2003Barber v. Union PacificArkansas Supreme Court on a crossing accident in which a sanitation truck collided with a train in St. Francis County, killing the driver and injuring the passenger.''The evidence shows that Union Pacific intentionally destroyed track records and voice tapes. Furthermore, there is evidence from which a jury would reasonably conclude that Union Pacific attempted to conceal slow orders issued for the portion of track.'' -- Verdict upheld, February 2004(Source by Court records and interviews)(pg. 21)Chart: ''Fatal Accidents and Flawed Reporting: A History''A Perennial ProblemRailroads must report fatal accidents within two hours to the National Response Center (N.R.C.) so that they can be investigated when evidence is fresh. In addition, railroads file monthly accident reports to the Federal Railroad Administration (F.R.A.). An analysis of the two sets of records conducted by The New York Times found that, over the last eight years, about 750 fatal accidents were not reported to the response center, diminishing the possibility of a timely investigation.Graph tracks the number of fatal accidents reported to F.R.A., fatal accidents reported to N.R.C., and fatal accidents not reported to the N.R.C. from 1996 - 2003.Close-up: 2003The Times researched fatal crossing accidents for 2003 and found 71 that were not reported to the National Response Center. In those cases a victim died within 24 hours, which meant the accident should have been reported to the response center. Most of the crossings have been the scenes of multiple accidents since 1975.UNION PACIFIC: 46 total in 2003DATE: Jan. 4STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 7DATE: Jan. 6STATE (SOURCES): New Mexico (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Jan. 15STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 8DATE: Feb. 1STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Feb. 6STATE (SOURCES): California (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Feb. 9STATE (SOURCES): Louisiana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Feb. 11STATE (SOURCES): Oklahoma (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Feb. 12STATE (SOURCES): Minnesota (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Feb. 17STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Feb. 20STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Feb. 21STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Feb. 27STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Mar. 29STATE (SOURCES): Arizona (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Apr. 11STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Apr. 17STATE (SOURCES): Idaho (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Apr. 30STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 13DATE: May 20STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: May 21STATE (SOURCES): California (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: May 24STATE (SOURCES): Oregon (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: May 28STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: June 20STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: June 20STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: June 24STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 11DATE: July 5*STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: July 7STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: July 9STATE (SOURCES): California (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: July 11STATE (SOURCES): Louisiana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: July 20STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: July 25STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: July 28STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: July 28STATE (SOURCES): Arizona (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Aug. 7STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Aug. 9STATE (SOURCES): Idaho (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Aug. 10STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 7DATE: Aug. 10STATE (SOURCES): Oklahoma (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Aug. 18STATE (SOURCES): Arkansas (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Aug. 20STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: Aug. 28STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Sept. 3STATE (SOURCES): Arizona (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 12DATE: Sept. 17STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: Sept. 17STATE (SOURCES): California (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Oct. 2STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 14DATE: Nov. 14STATE (SOURCES): California (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 5DATE: Dec. 2STATE (SOURCES): Texas (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Dec. 15*STATE (SOURCES): Louisiana (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Dec. 25*STATE (SOURCES): Arizona (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4CSX CORPORATION: 8 total in 2003DATE: Apr. 14STATE (SOURCES): Indiana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Apr. 19STATE (SOURCES): Florida (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: May 4*STATE (SOURCES): Indiana (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: May 25STATE (SOURCES): Kentucky (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Aug. 21STATE (SOURCES): Indiana (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 12DATE: Oct. 3STATE (SOURCES): Indiana (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 8DATE: Oct. 29STATE (SOURCES): Tennessee (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 5DATE: Nov. 7STATE (SOURCES): New Jersey (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3OTHER RAILROADS: 17 total, 12 railroadsDATE: Jan. 14STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: Jan. 17STATE (SOURCES): Wisconsin (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Feb. 11STATE (SOURCES): Indiana (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 7DATE: Mar. 13STATE (SOURCES): Missouri (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Apr. 4STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: June 23STATE (SOURCES): Mississippi (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: June 26STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (a,b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 7DATE: July 31STATE (SOURCES): Mississippi (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 5DATE: Aug. 1STATE (SOURCES): Oregon (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: Aug. 28STATE (SOURCES): Louisiana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 6DATE: Oct. 3STATE (SOURCES): New Jersey (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 2DATE: Oct. 14STATE (SOURCES): New Jersey (a)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Oct. 16STATE (SOURCES): Michigan (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 1DATE: Oct. 30STATE (SOURCES): Illinois (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Nov. 7STATE (SOURCES): Montana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3DATE: Dec. 11STATE (SOURCES): Wisconsin (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 4DATE: Dec. 16STATE (SOURCES): Montana (b)TOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSING: 3KEY TO THIS CHARTSOURCES USED TO CONFIRM THE TIME OF DEATH(a) Law enforcement report and/or interview(b) Coroner or medical examiner office report and/or interviewTOTAL ACCIDENTS AT CROSSINGTotal number of accidents at that crossing as reported to the F.R.A. from 1975 to March 2004.*Dates revised from F. R. A. reportAbout the analysis: Because the N.R.C. and F.R.A. keep different electronic versions of accident reports, The Times attempted to match these reports by a variety of methods. Records were paired by dates, times and/or place names. Reports with distinct names or other unique identifiers, such as grade-crossing numbers, engine names, mile-post markers and station names, were examined to see if they appeared in corresponding reports by the other agency. To assess the value of these searches, latitudes and longitudes of accident locations were used to compute the distance for some of the unmatched reports. According to the National Transportation Safety Board, railroads must only notify the N.R.C. if a victim dies within 24 hours of a gradecrossing accident. To identify those victims in 2003, The Times contacted local authorities.(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL CROSSINGS (94%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); BUDGETS (79%); CHILDREN (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WITNESSES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); EVIDENCE (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); LITIGATION (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); ETHICS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); APPEALS (62%) Railroads; Accidents and Safety; Surveys and Series; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Suits and Litigation; Roads and Traffic; Railroads; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Ethics; Railroads

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (59%); ARKANSAS SUPREME COURT (59%) Union Pacific Railroad

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%)

PERSON: Jenny Nordberg; Tom Torok; Eric Koli; Walt Bogdanich

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



223 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Opening Eyes at Work to Abuse at Home

BYLINE: By Thomas J. Lueck

 BODY:
AS the long arm of the human resources department reaches further into the private lives of American workers, trying to prevent personal problems from spilling into the workplace, domestic violence may be the subject most likely to make corporate planners shy away.
 For decades, companies have dealt with the problem gingerly, recognizing it as a serious matter, but something confined largely to the lives of the women in their work forces, whose privacy should not be invaded by their managers. Abused women who are willing to step forward might receive confidential counseling, and perhaps even medical care if their bruises remain visible when they show up for work.
 But now, in an unusual display of corporate resolve, a small but growing number of executives and public figures are banding together with a new approach aimed squarely at men in the workplace. Not only should greater care be taken to assist victims of domestic abuse, this group says, but men should do what they can to help. 
 ''We're not psychologists, but we need to get this problem out in the open,'' said Robert L. Mettler, the chairman of Macy's West, and one of several men across the nation in business, sports and entertainment who have formed the Founding Fathers Workplace Campaign against domestic violence.
 ''Sometimes we have to stand up for things that go beyond the pocketbook,'' said Mr. Mettler, whose division of Federated Department Stores runs 144 stores in seven states and in Guam, and has 30,000 employees, most of them women. Other advocates of the campaign, including Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager; the hip-hop impresario Russell Simmons; District Attorney Robert T. Johnson of the Bronx; and several chief executives, converged on a Manhattan theater last month to raise money and enlist new members.
 The campaign organizers say most business leaders are aware of the debilitating impact of domestic violence, which often hurts productivity, leads to absenteeism and increases company health care costs.
 They cite a national telephone survey, sponsored in 2000 by the family foundation of Ted Waitt, the founder of Gateway Computers, in which 50 percent of the male respondents said they knew somebody affected by domestic violence, but only 20 percent said they knew of any way to deal with it.
 ''Men were telling us they wanted to have a role,'' said Esta Soler, the executive director of the Family Violence Prevention Fund, a San Francisco group that is coordinating the Founding Fathers campaign with Mr. Waitt's foundation. Memberships, for individuals and corporate sponsors, require a minimum donation of $10; more information is at founding-fathers.org, the campaign's Web site.
 The campaign's main goal is to persuade men to talk to their colleagues, their friends and their sons about domestic violence. The campaign is providing posters, brochures and other literature, and encouraging companies to promote its message on bulletin boards and in office e-mail networks and letters from senior executives to their staffs.
 Ms. Soler said the intent is not to identify men who commit abuse. ''It is not about hunting down batterers, but changing social norms and creating a more friendly, supportive workplace environment,'' she said.
 The hope, she said, is that women in the workplace who are victims of abuse will find it easier to seek help.
 One corporate promoter of the campaign is Liz Claiborne, the clothing company based in New York, which has been experimenting with programs to battle domestic abuse for over a decade. With 13,000 employees around the world, 70 percent of them women, the company has introduced strategies like posting the phone number of a domestic abuse hot line in employee restrooms.
 ''There are obviously confidentiality issues involved, but when you come to work, what happens in your home life comes with you,'' said Jane Randel, the company's vice president for corporate communications.
 The company has formed a ''domestic abuse response team,'' she said, and has trained managers to recognize signs of domestic abuse, and to respond to it in ways that do not make victims feel they are being accused. ''People don't understand the isolation that victims feel,'' Ms. Randel said. ''When a manager steps forward and simply asks if everything is O.K., then maybe a woman won't respond immediately, but she knows somebody cares.''
 The workplace services offered by Liz Claiborne have long sought to educate male employees, she said, but the Founding Fathers campaign provided fresh impetus. ''It is providing a way for men to talk about domestic abuse in a nonaccusatory way.''

This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Waitt, founder of Gateway Computers, top left, was among the big names at an event last month in New York City to mobilize men against domestic violence. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (92%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); LABOR FORCE (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FUNDRAISING (70%); FAMILY (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); RAP MUSIC (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Domestic Violence; Labor; Men; Women

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (58%); MACY'S WEST INC (55%); GATEWAY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Founding Fathers Workplace Campaign (Orgn)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GUAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



224 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Elevated Visions

BYLINE: By JULIE V. IOVINE

 BODY:
THE High Line is an abandoned 1.5-mile stretch of overgrown railroad viaduct that runs from the Meatpacking district to Hell's Kitchen -- and straight into the imaginations of a growing number of New Yorkers who see it as proof that, even in an urban jungle, the forces of nature are still at work.
 The idea to turn the old freight route, once condemned to demolition, into a public park has gained momentum over the past five years, culminating in a design competition that attracted 52 entries. On July 16 the proposals of four finalists will go on display at the Center for Architecture on LaGuardia Place near Bleecker Street.
 By most standards, the High Line possesses none of the qualities of a park. An elevated rail line 30 to 60 feet wide and two stories above street level, it was built in the 1930's to connect the Pennsylvania Railroad Yards and the warehouses of Greenwich Village. By 1980, most of the industries it had served were defunct, the trains were derailed, the tracks went to seed and the myth began to sprout. It was fertilized by a series of photographs taken in 2000 by Joel Sternfeld, showing off the industrial ruin as a particularly contemporary landscape -- the eerie serenity of its black rails sweeping through a snowy strip of stubble in the winter, bristling waves of grass poking out between its steel trusses in the summer. 
 Last year, the Friends of the High Line, a group of artists, writers and concerned neighbors, invited architects, designers and homegrown visionaries to submit blue-sky ideas for the track's future. It attracted 720 entries from 36 countries, including one proposal to turn the entire length of the railroad bed into a swimming pool. After that, a $15 million commitment from the City Council and a rezoning proposal helped catapult the High Line's revival from long shot to a viable scheme, and a more selective competition for a workable master plan was undertaken.
 The caliber of the finalists -- from Steven Holl, a Manhattan architect who had previously proposed a series of bridge-shaped houses straddling the rails, to Zaha Hadid, the London-based architect who won the 2004 Pritzker Prize -- reflects the seriousness of the project. Total rebuilding, however, is not part of anyone's plan. ''The park of the future will be built on industrial sites like this one,'' said Robert Hammond, a co-founder of the Friends of the High Line. ''And we want to show that a park doesn't have to be Central Park to succeed. It can be a thin linear space cutting next to buildings.'' The winning team will be announced in August, at which point its design will be subject to revision.
 The Friends of the High Line and city representatives who will be judging the competition expect contestants to give the High Line a new life and purpose while still respecting its serendipitous character as a streak of wilderness in the city. JULIE V. IOVINE

1. FIELD OPERATIONS WITH DILLER, SCOFIDIO & RENFRO
 James Corner asked, ''What will grow here?,'' thinking not just of plants, but of ecosystems, urban cultures and sustainable economies. Mr. Corner -- the founder of Field Operations, a firm specializing in urban ecology -- and a team that includes the Danish artist Olafur Eliasson and Diller, Scofidio & Renfro, the New York firm known for cross-fertilizing architecture with other media, decided that the best way to stay true to the wildscape's spirit was to ''re-engineer'' it with semitransparent cast concrete. Blocks of this new twist on an old material would be threaded with fiber optics for lighting at night, and seeded with plant life suggested by the Dutch landscape designer Piet Oudolf. At some points the path would be completely overgrown; at others, to be determined by the engineers Buro Happold, it would dip sleekly into a pool with a transparent bottom. In contrast to the nearby Hudson River Park, where people zip by in constant motion, Mr. Corner said, ''the path will make people meander slowly. It will be broken up, fragmented, nothing will be straight on. The High Line is a different place from the rest of New York. There's a sense of slowness, distraction and otherworldliness. And that is what we want to preserve.''

2. STEVEN HOLL ARCHITECTS
 For more than 20 years, Steven Holl has been living and working in the neighborhoods traversed by the High Line. He was in a $200-a-month rental on West 21st Street, he said, thinking about mixed-income housing for the site, ''when the last railroad car full of frozen turkeys went down the line'' in 1980. Times have changed: the once run-down neighborhood is now a luxury destination. And Mr. Holl's vision has been updated as well. ''I want to make it a slice of green,'' he said, with large cuts incised in the rail bed in the manner of the artist Gordon Matta Clark. ''The structure was so overbuilt that parts of it can be removed to bring light down below,'' said Mr. Holl, who consulted with the engineers Guy Nordenson and HNTB of New York as well as the landscape designers Hargreaves Associates.
 Mr. Holl wants to let the ''steel calligraphy of the undergirders'' stand out as a kind of lost-and-found sculpture. There are a few flourishes: a tiered plaza and staircase in the spirit of the Spanish Steps in Rome; others designed by the artists Matthew Barney and Vito Acconci; an observation tower; and at the southern tip, a bridge leading to a water taxi. And the undersides of the platform would feature L.E.D. displays publicizing local galleries. ''It's all straightforward,'' he said. ''Our plan allows for five blocks to be ready to open in a year and a half. Our goal is to make it real.''

3. ZAHA HADID ARCHITECTS
 Zaha Hadid put cultural institutions first. Her team, including Skidmore, Owings & Merrill Architects and Diana Balmori, a landscape designer, asked the Kitchen, Creative Time and the Public Art Fund, organizations with iconoclastic flair and a commitment to public art, what the city most needed in cultural facilities. They recommended flexibility.
 Ms. Hadid unfurled a ribbon, a Mobius strip whose edges curl up to become benches or platforms or stages. To accommodate an ever-changing cultural program, Ove Arup, the engineers, analyzed eight sections of the High Line for sound levels and light quality. Those stretches that pass through old warehouses, for example, might be best suited for stages; others, for outdoor events, said Markus Dochantschi, a New York architect and team member.
 Where the High Line terminates at Gansevoort Street, other entrants have suggested renovating an existing building as an entrance, but Ms. Hadid envisions an entirely new building for a variety of educational and cultural events. 
 Without entirely jettisoning the original landscaping, the Hadid team emphasizes an uninterrupted flow of human creative energy. More juice will come from photovoltaic cells lining the ramp as it weaves along the site generating enough energy, in theory, to help power the neighborhood.

4. TERRAGRAM
 Willowy aspens, swaths of mustard flowers and sunflowers and an alternating rhythm of miniature forests and meadows is how TerraGRAM, the team led by Michael Van Valkenburgh, a former chairman of Harvard's landscape architecture department, has imagined the High Line. Pastoral as it sounds, it's a hard-working landscape. Mr. Van Valkenburgh has teamed up with Julie Bargmann of D.I.R.T. Studio, who specializes in reclaiming toxic environments. The artist James Turrell has agreed to design lighting installations where the High Line passes through buildings. Beyer Blinder Belle were architectural consultants. Over time, the team maintains, sunflowers and mustard seed can restore the High Line's impoverished soil to full life-bearing capability. Entering the park, visitors would climb a stair from the gritty streets, pass through a trap door and pop up into a ''forest of trembling Aspens -- like Alice in reverse,'' Mr. Van Valkenburgh explained. ''I fell in love with the contradictory power of this enduring industrial structure living in combination with the in-vitro natural landscape,'' he said. Indeed, the incongruous, upside down, over-the-rainbow (but hold the sugar) quality of the High Line has fascinated all who have come in contact with the place. This design is romance for the postirony crowd: a thousand flowers bloom, but they're shooting up out of 20 inches of gravel and debris.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ZONING (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITIES (72%); WRITERS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Design; High Line (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Friends of the High Line; Diller Scofidio & Renfro; Hadid, Zaha, Architects; Holl, Steven, Architects; Terragram (Co)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (50%) Julie V Iovine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



225 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends: Unchecked Baggage; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Our Airports, Ourselves

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
IN the recent movie ''The Terminal,'' the character played by Tom Hanks gets stuck in Kennedy International Airport for nine months, and discovers what many travelers are increasingly sensing: that airports have become their own worlds, laboratories for the latest forms of nourishment, commerce, entertainment, information, romance and fear.
 As airport amenities and food courts have expanded, and security concerns have increased the time people spend in them, terminals have become more than places for departures, arrivals and lost luggage, yet remain less than destinations -- without local history, tradition, religion or dialect, but borrowing bits of each of these from the people coursing through them.
 ''The Terminal'' is just one of several recent byproducts of a culture that is slowly absorbing the sense that in a post-9/11 world, airports are neither what they once were, nor fully evolved into a singular something else. Where airplanes once served as a dramatic or comic vehicle (the ''Airplane'' movies; the Harrison Ford thriller ''Air Force One''), the airport itself has become the star. Besides ''The Terminal,'' there is the reality television series ''Airline,'' which follows the strange experiences of Southwest Airlines personnel at Los Angeles International Airport and Midway Airport in Chicago. A surprise hit on the A&E channel earlier this year, it began its second season last week. And Heather Locklear and Blair Underwood will headline a fall NBC series called ''LAX,'' set in Los Angeles International. It is only fitting that Ms. 
Locklear, who once reigned voluptuously over the site-specific Melrose Place, now governs the nonplace of LAX.
 This new interest in the airport as dramatic stage reflects the convergence of two changes in airports themselves. Since 2001, the extended security lines, random searches, armed soldiers and bomb-sniffing dogs have pushed the airport from the anonymous background of modern travel into the anxious foreground, where we are all both suspects and potential victims. 
 More than that, the airport now sits at the center of a tangle of American values that have been called into question by the terrorist attacks and unending war on terror: mobility, anonymity, rootedness, nationalism, diversity, homogeneity and globalism. 
 ''I would say we're in an era where there is a distinct airport culture,'' said Pico Iyer, who has written extensively about life inside terminals, particularly at Los Angeles International. ''They represent an image of the way more and more cities are going. It's a culture of nonculture. They're places where people from hundreds of countries congregate, not communicating, thrown together in generic space. I think they're the postmodern metropolis.''
 That is to say, functionally points of transition, they have become so culturally as well. ''There's an odd sense of being nowhere,'' said Mark C. Taylor, author of ''Confidence Games: Money and Markets in a World Without Redemption'' and a professor of humanities, religion and architecture at Williams College and Columbia University. ''It's almost as if they're designed to transport you without a sense of movement.'' 
 You leave one airport, Professor Taylor said, and the one you land in looks exactly the same, with the same stores, fast food and cable news on television. He suggested that airports are not separate locations but nodes in a network of similar terminals, which collectively are crossed by currents of information, commerce, disease and risk. 
 Airports sacrifice a sense of place for a sense of occasion, said Karal Ann Marling, a professor of popular culture at the University of Minnesota. ''Spielberg did something very smart in 'The Terminal' to emphasize that the airport is one giant shopping mall,'' Professor Marling said. ''It's a dodge game we play with ourselves to pretend airports aren't airports. In that shopping world, it's obvious that the management is going to take great care of you and nothing evil can happen to you. It distracts travelers from the possibility that they will meet bin Laden on the next flight. How can you be afraid when there's a Gap next to you?''
 The sameness of amenities from one airport to the next, which can make airport space feel so generic, also provides a sense of comfort, Professor Marling said. ''We've all learned to be lulled by name brands and the familiarity of the mall. It's luxurious and normative all at the same time.''
 THE current fixation on airports in popular film and television marks a twist in one of America's central continuing narratives: the romance of the open road. In a nation of immigrants, without great cathedrals or local mythologies, the road has been a founding metaphor, a stand-in for reinvention and discovery. Slaves in the antebellum South built one of early America's greatest institutions, the black church, around the Biblical stories of exodus. Emerson began American letters with the belief that man is great ''not in his goals but in his transitions''-- a literary analog to the road. 
 The country's first popular culture, the minstrel show, and first homegrown art form, the blues, both celebrated the footloose traveler. Mark Twain and Herman Melville invented American literature on the open waterway, a wet version of the road, and Jack Kerouac and Vladimir Nabokov continued the tradition a century later. 
 Like the road, the airport is a nonplace, something encountered on the way to going somewhere else, better measured in time -- always too long -- than in square feet. Now that it is unsafe to hitchhike, and affordable to fly, the terminal makes a better canvas for transition or self-discovery. As such, it is the setting du jour for our narratives of romance, longing, adventure and intrigue. 
 ''It's unlegislated territory,'' Mr. Iyer said. ''It's a psychological limbo that becomes a meeting place of the human and posthuman -- people are meeting loved ones, sending them off to war, meeting for funerals, all in the midst of a network of Body Shops, Sharper Images and other stores whose names even speak of displacement.''
 In a 2001 article titled ''Consumer Cities,'' the Harvard economist Edward Glaeser wrote that since cities are no longer centers for manufacturing, their main role is as stages for shopping and entertainment, conflating the categories of tourists and locals. By this measure, some of the thriving metropolises of the 21st century are not cities at all: they are airports. 
 Welcome to Mr. Iyer's postmodern metropolis. Your bags -- the things that tie you to your home and your past -- will be arriving at the baggage carousel. Or not at all. 
 After all, in the biosphere of the terminal, you don't really need anything -- not even the connections that make you human. For those you have your carry-on laptop and cellphone: placeless terminals within a placeless terminal, allowing you to travel the world without leaving the familiar touch of plastic.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In its vast network of air terminals, America has found a new locale for tales of romance, intrigue, adventure and woe. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
 The cast of NBC's ''LAX'' will mine the Los Angeles airport for drama this fall. (Photo by Chris Haston/NBC)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (95%); AIRLINES (91%); TERRORISM (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); HISTORY (75%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); DOGS (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Bombs and Explosives; Dogs; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Travel and Vacations; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (73%); HARRISON FORD (58%) John Leland; Pico Iyer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



226 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Class Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Money, Politics, And Four Rich Men

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
EVERY presidential ticket is a snapshot of a party, a particular political moment, a particular political need. 
 Often, it shows politicians scrambling to pull together various regions or ideological wings of a party, like Franklin D. Roosevelt paired with the conservative Texan John Nance Garner, the speaker of the House, in 1932. Sometimes, the politicians are trying to reflect (and capitalize on) a major social or demographic change -- notably Walter F. Mondale, hoping to galvanize his decidedly uphill campaign by naming a woman, Geraldine A. Ferraro, as his running-mate in 1984.
 So what does a John Kerry-John Edwards ticket tell you? Forget, for a moment, the obvious attempt at regional balance, or the tactical advantage of adding a skilled campaigner to the ticket. In deeper ways, the selection of Edwards signals the extent to which this campaign will revolve around class -- more specifically, which party represents the aspirations, values and economic interests of hard-working middle America. 
 There is an obvious paradox here; Mr. Edwards is the fourth white male millionaire to join the national tickets. Three of them went to Yale, and two (Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush) are descendants of old and patrician New England families.
 But Kevin Phillips, the political historian and Bush critic, notes that there are class differences even among the millionaires. To begin with, as is now widely known, Mr. Edwards is the son of a millworker, the first generation in his family to go to college (and it was not Yale). He made his own fortune, and he did it as a trial lawyer. ''Edwards is a member of one of the relatively few professions where you can make a lot of money blasting the avarice of big corporations,'' Mr. Phillips said.
 ''Republicans worry about him going up and down the Ohio Valley, and winning over a lot of people just like he won small-town juries in the border states,'' Mr. Phillips added. (Atticus Finch with an attitude.) 
 With the help of Mr. Edwards's full-throated economic populism, his up-by-the-bootstraps biography and his case against the ''two Americas,'' Democrats hope to strengthen their connection with white working-and middle-class voters. Mr. Kerry has already laid down some detailed policy prescriptions to ease what he describes as the ''middle-class squeeze,'' from a major program to expand health insurance coverage and hold down its costs, to new assistance with college tuition.
 But Mr. Kerry, while he tries hard, does not always connect to the bread-and-butter, regular-guy voters he seeks. (It is an enduring mystery to many Democrats why Mr. Bush, with no less patrician roots, manages to elude the charge of elitism. ''It seems like something you could throw at them, but it just doesn't stick,'' said Senator John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana.) Democrats are hoping Mr. Edwards adds some empathy and some passion to the policy.
 ''There is great virtue in the minds of voters to having people in positions of power who at some point in their lives walked in their shoes,'' said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster. ''It's a quality that at the moment, people feel is badly lacking in the political process, which people increasingly see as the province of elites.''
 Another Democratic strategist, who did not want to be identified, described the potential value of the Edwards addition more bluntly: ''It makes it a whole lot harder for the Republicans to make the argument that Democrats are elitist liberals cowering on the coasts with their Starbucks coffee and organic milk.''
 Republicans, for their part, are appealing to those same voters with a kind of cultural populism, asserting that Democrats are flatly out of touch with mainstream, small-town America on issues from ''partial birth abortion'' to gun control. It is a campaign that proved devastatingly effective four years ago, when Mr. Bush carried the rural and small-town vote by large majorities.
 Republicans immediately characterized Mr. Edwards this week as a ''disingenuous, unaccomplished liberal and friend to personal injury trial lawyers.'' They suggested that his ''rural populist message'' was ''just another gimmick.''
 Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster, said of the Democrats, ''Their idea of economic populism is more government intervention and more government control, and I'm not sure that's what middle-class voters really want.''
 A snapshot of this year's presidential tickets reveals more than the complicated politics of economic class. Twenty years after Ms. Ferraro, there are obviously no women on the tickets, and only a few made the Democratic list of mentionables. 
 Ms. Ferraro herself said the reasons are not hard to find: vice presidential candidates tend to come from governorships, the Senate and the field of presidential candidates themselves, and ''not enough women are in those positions.'' 
 There are 14 women in the Senate, nine of them Democrats, and nine women governors, five of them Democrats. And one of the biggest stars among Democratic women, Jennifer Granholm, the governor of Michigan, cannot run for president because she was born in Canada.
 What worries Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers, is not simply that more women are not stepping forward to run for president, but that the pipeline of potential candidates is not filling up. ''We're seeing a leveling off, a stagnation, at the state legislative level and a decline in the number of women in statewide office other than governor,'' she said.
 Similarly, the tickets this year are, once again, all white. Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat and former civil rights leader, has high praise for the Kerry-Edwards ticket, but added it was ''unfortunate'' that 40 years after the Voting Rights Act was enacted, there were still no blacks on a national ticket, let alone in the Senate.
 But presidential candidates and their tickets are not merely the sum of their demographics. Despite the lack of diversity, these tickets offer four very different American lives -- and biography counts in politics. Maybe not as much as it did before the war on terrorism pushed national security to the forefront, but it still counts. 
 George Bush speaks the language of evangelical, conservative, family-values-oriented America. John Edwards comes from the same Southern tradition that produced Bill Clinton, a master at connecting across lines of class and race. And Mr. Kerry, for his part, is trying to break out of the biographical stereotype Republicans are so eager to preserve -- aloof, elite, affluent, liberal Northeasterner.
 Last weekend, on his bus tour of the Midwestern small towns, Mr. Kerry shook thousands of hands, hoisted dozens of babies, ate barbecue, did some shooting, listened and smiled and patted backs. At the end of one of his biggest rallies, on a farm in Wisconsin, he joined the band to play the guitar to Woody Guthrie's populist anthem, ''This Land Is Your Land.'' As the sun set behind him, and the largely rural crowd sang along, he was smiling, and he seemed to transcend his demographics, as presidential candidates have to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TUITION FEES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); LAWYERS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Millionaires and Billionaires; Legal Profession; Election Issues; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



227 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Beyond a President's Control

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
WE endow our presidents with mythical power, holding them responsible for the health of the economy. But any president's influence over the twists and turns of the complicated American economy is inevitably less than is advertised.
 George W. Bush is not to be blamed for the recession that overtook the country two months after his inauguration. Nor is he the author of the upturn that seemed so promising in the spring. Now the economy may be weakening again, which suggests that, if he became president, John F. Kerry would preside over a downturn during his opening months in office, followed, eventually, by an upturn. 
 Both would be beyond his control, or any president's, although Mr. Kerry would be blamed for the downturn and praised for the rebound. Franklin D. Roosevelt exercised more influence than any modern president over the fluctuations of the economy. He did so through huge public spending, a dismantling of the gold standard and similar drastic measures. Yet even he was taken by surprise when a gradually recovering economy performed a U-turn in 1937 and plunged back into depression.
 So why do voters focus so narrowly on the quarter-to-quarter health of the economy, forcing the presidential candidates into a game of musical chairs? If the economy is flourishing in the final weeks of a campaign, when the music stops, the incumbent is likely to be re-elected, assuming that other issues -- like the Iraq war, in Mr. Bush's case -- don't get in the way. But if the economy is heading south in those final weeks, the challenger -- Mr. Kerry --is more likely to be our next president. 
 ''Ordinary people don't have a good sense of what the president can and cannot do about the economy,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, which surveys public opinion. ''Their perception is that he is responsible for how they are faring, and if he does not acknowledge their complaints, they judge him as indifferent and not doing a good job.''
 The first President Bush was a victim of this perception. The 1992 election came 16 months into a recovery that was still too weak to be distinguished in people's minds from the 1990-1991 recession, and Bill Clinton capitalized on that perception with his endlessly repeated slogan, ''It's the economy, stupid.'' Now, Mr. Bush's son is promising more of the strong economic growth and job creation that was so evident in the spring, while keeping his fingers crossed that the nation is not in for another slide, as recent data about the economy increasingly suggest. 
 The Federal Reserve, of course, has become the true hero -- or culprit -- for what happens in the near term. A president can have only limited influence. The Bush tax cuts, for example, put money into the pockets of low- and middle-income people, and that contributed to the recovery, although it would have come sooner and been stronger, many economists say, if the tax cuts had been directed much more than they were at lower-income people likely to spend every dollar of such windfalls. Still, despite the shortcomings, the Bush tax cuts helped. 
 The Kerry formula seeks to recreate the prosperity of the 1990's largely by moving the country back toward the budget surpluses of the Clinton era. As part of the process, Mr. Kerry would rescind the Bush tax cuts on incomes of more than $200,000 annually. The Clinton surpluses, however, were not just President Clinton's doing. Military spending, for example, declined after the cold war, and there was a contribution from tax increases enacted while Republicans still occupied the White House, in addition to a Clinton tax increase. 
 The deficit reduction and budget surpluses, however, came during Mr. Clinton's watch, and he got the credit. He, in turn, credited deficit reduction and its favorable impact on the bond market as the defining features of the late 1990's prosperity. The president's good luck came to be known as Clintonomics, which Mr. Kerry promises to bring back, although he is realistic about its causes. Ask him about the 90's boom and he cites contributing factors beyond any president's control.
 High on his list are the rapid advances in computer technology and the unanticipated surge in labor productivity. ''I believe that you had a combination of circumstances in the 1990's, some of which you don't have today repeatable,'' Mr. Kerry said in a recent telephone interview. Among them, he said, were the fact that ''we were coming out of the banking crisis of the late 1980's-early 90's, and we had gone through a consolidation of banks and a certain re-establishment of confidence in the financial sector.''
 Booms and busts, in sum, do not come and go in response to finger-snapping by presidents. ''Where the economy is going to be six months from now is beyond anyone's knowledge or control,'' said Peter L. Bernstein, a Wall Street economist who has been tracking business cycles for more than 40 years. 
 True, the nation's presidents are not helpless spectators, certainly not as helpless as their constituents. But they are not masters of the business cycle, either -- although that is what most voters expect them to be, the polls tell us. And that is the role that presidential candidates embrace in their campaign oratory.
 WE do not hear as much about the great influence that presidents do exercise in shaping the economy in a different way. Booms and busts are largely beyond their control, but distribution of the national income is not. And here, the Bush and Kerry approaches are radically different. 
 Through tax cuts and other policies, the Bush administration is channeling more income to the wealthiest Americans -- record amounts, in fact. The Kerry camp, in contrast, would redistribute income down the social ladder, through practices like a higher minimum wage, extended unemployment insurance, stepped-up spending for education and, above all, subsidized health insurance for millions of Americans who now have no health insurance at all. Both candidates say that, as a spinoff, their approaches will strengthen the economy, but what stands out is who gets what share of the pie.
 Income distribution is what a president can control. The news media report this issue, of course, but not nearly as often as the musical chairs.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''A Presidency's Economic Path''Graph tracks the gross domestic product, quarterly change at annual rates, since 2001.(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); JOB CREATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



228 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Conspiracy Theorists Unite; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: A Secret Conference Thought to Rule the World

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
SINCE its first meeting 50 years ago, the Bilderberg conference, a secretive gathering of global power brokers, has inspired layer upon layer of conspiracy theories, which it has done little to dispute. Over the years, the deeds laid at the conference's devious door have included the creation of the European Union, the invasion of Iraq and the bombing of Serbia -- all to service its most cherished goal: the creation of a world government.
 The conspiracy theories bubbled to the surface anew last week, after it was reported that a well-received speech by Senator John Edwards at the conference last month in Stresa, Italy, was one reason for his selection as John Kerry's vice-presidential running mate.
 Is the Bilderberg confab now molding domestic American policy? 
 Roughly 130 delegates attend the invitation-only annual gatherings, named for the Dutch hotel where the first Bilderberg conference was held in May 1954, to debate issues surrounding the cold war. 
 The meetings are hardly a monument to transparency. The hotels involved are usually closed off to other guests.
 Unlike the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, journalists are not invited to cover it -- although a few attend as participants -- and all delegates promise to keep quiet about what they hear and say. 
 ''They do not have to sign anything, but they understand that they do not talk,'' said Maja Banck-Polderman, the organization's executive secretary. In a telephone interview, she said she was the only employee at the Bilderberg administrative office in Leiden, the Netherlands.
 Secrecy understandings aside, prying details loose about Mr. Edwards's appearance was not difficult so long as the chattering chieftains were not identified.
 Mr. Edwards, several said, joined Ralph Reed, the Republican strategist, in giving a presentation on the American election. After Mr. Reed spoke about how Mr. Kerry was vulnerable on ''values,'' Mr. Edwards presented a characteristically positive case for Mr. Kerry's election, focusing on the insecurity of American workers that persists even when economic statistics turn north.
 Two Democrats in the room said Mr. Edwards sparked a rule-breaking round of applause when he finished, though a nonpartisan witness did not recall such an ovation.
 ''He spoke with great passion, in a meeting that is usually rather dry,'' said the nonpartisan veteran attendee. ''He was able to make it a cross between his stump speech and an intimate conversation in a small room.''
 The group's meetings, Ms. Banck-Polderman said, are financed by corporate sponsors in the host countries and are regularly attended by tycoons, politicians and diplomats in Europe and the United States, including Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Richard N. Perle, the former head of the Defense Policy Board. This year's list also included Richard C. Holbrooke, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations, and, of course, Senator Edwards. 
 The guest list and membership would more or less overlap with the ''Wanted'' posters of anti-globalization protesters. Indeed, one former participant, Will Hutton, a British journalist and economist, has been widely quoted calling the Bilderberg set the ''high priests of globalization.''
 Former participants have generally played down the conspiracy theories, saying the secrecy is merely designed to foster a climate of open debate, allowing participants to speak their minds freely.
 But critics of the Bilderberg conference argue that while it may not make formal decisions, it sets a consensus that spreads among business and political elites, molding the global agenda.
 Some argue, for instance, that the first intimations of American determination to wage war in Iraq came from a Bilderberg gathering in 2002. 
 ''What I call for is more openness in what they do,'' said Tony Gosling, a British researcher and former journalist who has followed the Bilderberg meetings and believes they are designed to unite opinion around major, global ideas.
 ''I don't think the participants should be sworn to secrecy,'' he said in a telephone interview from Bristol, England. ''I think that a forum where so many rich and powerful people meet should be open to public scrutiny.''
 Whatever else, the selection of Mr. Edwards as Mr. Kerry's running mate seems to show that the Bilderberg delegates have an eye for a contender.
 But Democrats please note: they do not always back the winner. This year's delegates list showed that Giulio Tremonti attended as Italy's minister of economy and finance: four weeks later, he resigned in a political dispute -- perhaps not the best of omens for Senator Edwards.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Communing in private: Henry Kissinger, top, Richard Perle, middle, and Richard Holbrooke. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Getty Images)
 (Photo by CBS News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); COLD WAR (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%) Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%) Bilderberg Conference

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (81%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Alan Cowell; David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SERBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%) Stresa (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



229 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: PREWAR ASSESSMENTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: PANEL DESCRIBES LONG WEAKENING OF HUSSEIN ARMY

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
The Senate's report on prewar intelligence about Iraq, which asserts that warnings about its illicit weapons were largely unfounded and that its ties to Al Qaeda were tenuous, also undermines another justification for the war: that Saddam Hussein's military posed a threat to regional stability and American interests.
 In a detailed discussion of Iraq's prewar military posture, the report cites a long series of intelligence reports in the decade before the war that described a formerly potent army's spiral of decay under the weight of economic sanctions and American military pressure.
 The main risk of an attack by Mr. Hussein against the United States and nations in the region was his unpredictability, these reports indicated. The reports found it especially hard to predict what he would do if threatened by the likelihood of American military action. But the Senate Intelligence Committee called this analysis relatively weak. 
 The committee's report implies that war opponents were essentially correct when they argued that Iraq posed little immediate threat to the United States. Before the war, those who held this view, both in Congress and at the United Nations, argued that continued containment was preferable to an invasion.
 Although the report described a profound breakdown in the American intelligence system, both White House and Congressional officials say the political calendar will prevent any serious action until after the November elections. [Page 10.]
 In discussing the committee's report, the Bush administration has emphasized that the war was worthwhile because it removed a threatening dictator from power.
 ''He was a dangerous man,'' President Bush said Friday. ''The world is better off without Saddam Hussein in power. America is safer.''
 In the debate before the war, administration officials sometimes made the same argument, but with not nearly the emphasis that they gave to threats from chemical weapons or terrorism. They sometimes mentioned risks that Iraq would use Scuds or other shorter-range conventional missiles, or they brought up its antiaircraft attacks on American patrols over the no-flight zones in the north and south of the country. They also spoke of continuing military dangers to Kuwait, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Israel.
 In a speech in January 2003, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld interspersed claims about chemical and biological weapons and terrorism with conventional military threats to argue that ''Iraq poses a threat to the security of our people and to the stability of the world.''
 ''Iraq has invaded two of its neighbors and has launched ballistic missiles at four of its neighbors,'' he said, adding that it ''is the only country in the world that fires missiles and artillery at U.S. and coalition aircraft on an almost daily basis.''
 The intelligence agencies should have offered Congress and other policymakers a comprehensive, unified view of these risks before the war, the Senate Intelligence Committee said, but they never did.
 After reviewing about 400 analytical documents written by the intelligence agencies from 1991, after the first gulf war, to 2003, when Mr. Hussein was toppled, the committee unanimously concluded that ''the body of assessments showed that Iraqi military capabilities had steadily degraded following defeat in the first gulf war in 1991. Analysts also believed those capabilities would continue to erode as long as economic sanctions remained in place.''
 The intelligence agencies, though, were much less certain about Mr. Hussein's intentions, the committee said. ''The assessments came to the same general conclusions that Saddam Hussein: was unpredictable and aggressive; retained the capability to strike militarily in the region; and, would probably not choose to use force against neighbors as long as U.S. and coalition forces were in the region.''
 ''Clearly, the issue of Saddam's intentions to use force against his neighbors and U.S. and coalition forces was a high-interest matter,'' the report said, ''and, unfortunately, the main area where the intelligence community was least confident in its analysis.''
 It criticized the agencies for failing ''to clearly characterize changes in Iraq's threat to regional stability and security, taking account of the fact that its conventional military forces steadily degraded after 1990.''
 In September 1991, a report on Mr. Hussein's ''prospects for survival over the next year'' found that Iraq would have ''only limited capabilities to endanger U.S. interests.''
 By 1993, an assessment said Mr. Hussein's basic goals were to maintain power ''by any means,'' to regain internal control, to rebuild the military, including illicit weapons, and to make Iraq ''the dominant regional power.'' But the agencies warned that they were ''hindered by the dearth of solid information.''
 An assessment in early 1995 called Iraq ''an immediate source of concern and a long-term threat to U.S. strategic interests in the Persian Gulf,'' but the State Department's view in the document called it ''impossible to predict with confidence whether Saddam will choose confrontation or opt for a period of quiescence and cooperation.'' The military's view in the document was that Iraq had ''at least some chance'' of striking quickly into Saudi oil fields.
 Other reports that year warned of Mr. Hussein's ''unpredictability and proclivity for dramatic and rash behavior'' but said only ''marginal'' rebuilding of the military had occurred. Without a ''large, standing coalition military presence'' in the region, one said, there could be no guarantee of deterring him.
 From about 1999 on, though, assessments ''noted that the condition of all Iraqi military branches was poor,'' the Senate committee found.
 In 2002, a report judged ''that Iraqi military morale and battlefield cohesion are more fragile today than in 1991.''
 By January 2003, an assessment found that ''Saddam probably will not initiate hostilities for fear of providing Washington with justification to invade Iraq. Nevertheless, he might deal the first blow, especially if he perceives that an attack intended to end his regime is imminent.''
 By March 17, 2003, Mr. Bush promised that the time of such risks was about to end.
 ''In a free Iraq there will be no more wars of aggression against your neighbors,'' he said. ''The tyrant will soon be gone.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Iraqi Republican Guard, an elite force under Saddam Hussein, gathering on the outskirts of Baghdad in April 2003. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); AL-QAEDA (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Intelligence Services; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Politics and Government

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Central Intelligence Agency

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) John H Jr Cushman; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



230 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Hussein's Military Capabilities
The Senate's report on prewar intelligence about Iraq reported that Saddam Hussein's military had weakened under economic sanctions and American military pressure, undermining a justification for the war. 1

White House officials and Congressional leaders say the political calendar and continuing arguments about what needs to be fixed at the C.I.A. will prevent any serious action until after the November elections. 10

Tension appears to be rising between the homegrown Iraqi resistance and the foreign Islamist fighters who have entered the country to destroy the American military presence. 1

Saboteurs detonated an improvised bomb next to a gas pipeline north of Baghdad, shutting the pipeline and setting it afire. Meanwhile, reports suggested that three kidnapped foreigners remained alive. 8

Explosion Kills 4 in Gaza
An explosion killed three Palestinian militants traveling in a car and a nearby motorcyclist. The cause of the blast was unclear. 12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Commitment to '05 AIDS Goal
The World Health Organization asserted that its goal of delivering antiretroviral therapy to three million people infected with H.I.V. in poor countries by the end of 2005 could still be met despite obstacles. 4

SPORTS

Jones Fails to Qualify
Marion Jones finished fifth in the 100 meters final and failed to qualify for the American squad for the Olympic Games in Athens. She can still qualify in the long jump and the 200 meters. SportsSunday, Page 1

OBITUARIES 27

NATIONAL 16-26

Iraq War a Top Issue for Kerry
Senator John Kerry and Senator John Edwards signaled that the Iraq war would be a central issue in their campaign with comments that slipshod intelligence invoked by President Bush to invade Iraq had cost the nation lives, billions of dollars and international prestige. 1

Mr. Kerry's representatives avoided a Democratic Party platform fight over Iraq by persuading platform committee delegates supporting Representative Dennis J. Kucinich to withdraw their proposals for a quick withdrawal of United States combat troops from Iraq. 24

Senate Democrats Look West
Democratic candidates in Colorado, Alaska and Oklahoma are mounting strong challenges in areas once thought to be solidly Republican. 24

Railroads Hide Crash Evidence
Some railroads sidestep their responsibility in grade-crossing fatalities, a New York Times investigation found. Their actions range from destroying or mishandling evidence to not reporting the crashes properly. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 29-34

New Domestic Partnership Law
An estimated 400 same-sex couples registered for domestic partnership for the first time in New Jersey. The law permitting the unions, which was signed into law in January, went into effect on Saturday. 26

Deadly Days in City
Fourteen people were shot, five of them fatally, in a string of unrelated shootings in Brooklyn and the Bronx Friday night and early yesterday, the police said. 31

Fresh Air Fund 34

Chess 34
Weather 35
Cong. Vote 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ANTIVIRALS (75%); SHOOTINGS (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); OLYMPICS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (65%); MARRIAGE (63%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (63%); COHABITATION (63%); EVIDENCE (60%); RAIL CROSSINGS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



231 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: The Silent Treatment, Then and Now

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Gabe Pressman's lament about Mayor Bloomberg's not taking his follow-up questions (''All Q. and No A. at City Hall'', Op-Ed, June 27) reminded me of the time Mr. Pressman asked Robert Wagner, then the city's mayor, about equal employment opportunities for minorities at a 1965 press conference announcing construction of Co-op City in the Bronx. 
 Before the mayor could open his mouth to answer, Peter J. Brennan, then head of the powerful New York City Central Labor Council and later to be named President Nixon's secretary of labor, shouted out: ''Don't say a word, Bob, it's all taken care of.''
 Not getting mayoral answers should be nothing new to the veteran newscaster.

AVRUM HYMAN
Riverdale

The writer was New York State deputy commissioner of housing and community renewal when Co-op City was built.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); RICHARD NIXON (53%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gabe Pressman; Avrum Hyman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



232 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3587 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Breakup Of the Kings of Tort

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
FROM a snug study in his home in an affluent San Diego suburb, William S. Lerach can gaze past documents piled on his desk into an airy hallway and living room adorned with expensive, carefully selected African masks and statuettes. The study, filled with nonfiction books, reference works, videos and photographs, has the feeling of a cocoon, a refuge where a busy lawyer comes to gather his thoughts.
 But one wall is dominated by a large, framed illustration that is anything but serene. A gift from a friend, it depicts Mr. Lerach wrestling with his former law partner, Melvyn I. Weiss. The two are caricatured like bulls in profile, their heads bent toward each other, small lightning bolts filling the air around them.
 Although the illustration begs for comment, Mr. Lerach offers none, other than to shake his head and smile slightly. Yet it is a measure of the significance of his relationship with Mr. Weiss, a man he describes as his mentor, that he chose to hang the work in this most private of spaces. 
 When told later of the illustration, Mr. Weiss paused momentarily in his office atop One Penn Plaza in Midtown Manhattan, with a view of the Empire State Building and the East River. ''I'd rather have Picassos on my wall,'' he said, smiling subversively.
 For almost three decades, the law firm of Milberg, Weiss, Bershad, Hynes & Lerach, as it was known before Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss parted ways acrimoniously in May, towered like no other over the combative business of suing corporations -- from Enron to Adelphia -- or their advisers for fraud. Over the years, the firm's lawyers, ultimately numbering about 225, held an array of publicly traded companies in their sights, winning increasingly large court settlements as the legal system tried to keep pace with the elusive, complex world of white-collar crime.
 Milberg, Weiss's practice grew in tandem with securities laws that evolved to rein in corporate malfeasance, but the firm also became the singular expression of the personalities of Mr. Weiss and Mr. Lerach -- at once creative, belligerent, grasping, innovative, wily and unrelenting. And while Mr. Lerach joined the firm in 1976 as Mr. Weiss's pupil, about a decade ago he began to attract more attention than his tutor, setting the stage for a Shakespearean rupture that has left the men alienated from each other.
 ''While I've had Bill and Mel as adversaries plenty of times, I respect them enormously,'' said Ralph C. Ferrara, managing partner of Debevoise & Plimpton's office in Washington and a veteran of corporate legal defense. ''There is no defense firm in the country that has two stars as prominent in defense work as they are in the plaintiffs' bar. They were an incredibly potent force together.''
 The legal terrain that Mr. Lerach, 58, and Mr. Weiss, 68, have prowled with the tenacity of pit bulls was once considered declasse by establishment lawyers attracted to white-shoe, corporate practices. Few of the early suits filed by Milberg, Weiss involved household names, but by the 1990's the firm was slugging it out with major insurers, health care companies and Silicon Valley enterprises. It was reaping huge fees and using hyperaggressive tactics that inspired federal legislation intended to cripple its practice.
 But that legislation served only to solidify Milberg, Weiss's position at the top of its field and to encourage more deep-pocketed plaintiffs like institutional investors to enter the fray. In the end, the only forces capable of pulling Milberg, Weiss asunder were the egos, ambitions and profoundly disparate styles of its two most famous partners. 
 Each man has his own view of why they have gone separate ways, but Mr. Weiss speaks for both of them when he describes the incendiary end of a long relationship laden with emotional issues common to fathers and sons.
 ''It was what I think you would call spontaneous combustion,'' he said.
 MR. LERACH, who favors khakis, casual shirts and gym shoes and peers through oversize glasses with translucent frames, recalls his first encounter with Mr. Weiss as if it were an epiphany.
 It was late 1974, and Mr. Weiss was in a hotel conference room in Denver with more than 100 other lawyers who had banded together to sue U.S. Financial, a San Diego real estate company. Mr. Lerach's client, Mellon Bank, had also sued U.S. Financial and had sent him west from Pittsburgh to size things up.
 ''Mel is sitting there literally like a Hollywood movie star telling people what they're going to do the next day,'' Mr. Lerach recalled. ''And I thought to myself, 'O.K., now you've found the guy who's going to show you what to do in life.'''
 The man who might otherwise have shown Mr. Lerach what to do in life -- his father -- died on Father's Day in 1963, when his son was 17. Mr. Lerach said his father, who scratched out a living selling nuts and bolts in Pittsburgh, had also inherited a tidy sum of money, which he subsequently lost in the stock market, a financial setback from which his father never recovered. 
 ''It destroyed him,'' Mr. Lerach said. ''He was an empty man. And that created me in some way. Because I was never going to work for anyone else. I wasn't going to let that happen to me.''
 An aimless student, Mr. Lerach finally found his calling at the University of Pittsburgh Law School. His mother, whom he describes as the most important person in his life, encouraged him to enroll there. ''The day I started law school I loved it,'' he said. ''Maybe because the rules are weapons. They're weapons you can use to achieve an end.''
 He spent a few years with an upper-crust Pittsburgh firm, Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay, before he met Mr. Weiss, a lawyer whose legal philosophy meshed perfectly with the younger attorney's martial zeal: litigation as warfare, the courtroom as a battlefield and abusive corporations as enemies.
 Mr. Weiss places his first encounter with Mr. Lerach in a different hotel, one in San Diego, but he, too, recognizes it as a seminal moment. While he seems loath to concede much to Mr. Lerach these days, he said that linking up with the younger lawyer was ''very important'' in his own career. After observing Mr. Lerach's courtroom skills for more than a year in the U.S. Financial case, Mr. Weiss decided that he was a ''very brilliant lawyer'' and invited him to join Milberg, Weiss and to build a West Coast presence for the firm, in San Diego.
 ''He was different than he is now,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''His hair was straight and he wore wingtipped shoes. He was straight out of the defense bar.''
 In contrast to Mr. Lerach, Mr. Weiss is rarely out of his wingtips. He favors dark custom-made suits set off by elegant ties with matching handkerchiefs, though the effect is somewhat undone by a diamond ring on his right pinkie, a Mephistophelean goatee and a tough-kid swagger.
 Like Mr. Lerach, he has an incisive mind and an encyclopedic command of securities law, and he wears his political liberalism on his sleeve. Colleagues and competitors describe him as a master legal strategist. And like Mr. Lerach, he is self-made.
 MR. WEISS was born in the Bronx and grew up in Queens, the son of an accountant. As a young man, he joined his father, with whom he enjoyed a close relationship, on client visits and eventually studied to be an accountant himself. But after becoming involved in local politics, he chose to attend New York University Law School. A stint in the Army and work with large and small New York law firms followed, and, in 1965, he was wooed by Lawrence Milberg to start a small practice.
 A year later, the Supreme Court revised class-action procedures to make it easier for groups to sue over civil rights violations. The purpose was to safeguard personal liberties at a time when the South was embroiled in racial upheaval, but Mr. Weiss pounced on the change as a tool for shareholders to sue corporations suspected of engaging in securities fraud. 
 Mr. Weiss turned class-action shareholder lawsuits, once a relatively obscure field practiced by solo practitioners like Abraham L. Pomerantz, into his firm's specialty. He made a handsome living suing companies whose stock price had suddenly plunged, using his accounting and legal skills to ferret out evidence of fraud. He filed quickly and often first, seeking lead plaintiff status, which usually guaranteed him a larger portion of the legal fees paid out of court settlements and allowed him to parcel out roles for other law firms. 
 ''I learned a long time ago that the lawyer who calls the meeting and sets up the meeting gets to sit at the head of the table and can then sustain that position,'' Mr. Weiss said.
 By the time Mr. Lerach joined Milberg, Weiss, the firm had been at the forefront of legal shifts that made shareholder class actions more potent. Most notably, the firm won a 1976 federal appellate court decision, Blackie v. Barrack, that enshrined the ''fraud on the market'' theory, permitting lawyers to alert shareholders that they may have been defrauded, even if the investors were unaware that misleading corporate pronouncements may have helped artificially inflate share prices. From then on, it became simpler to corral large numbers of plaintiffs to sue errant companies, and court awards began rising.
 Mr. Lerach brought to the firm a voracious appetite for work, a keen nose for fraud and a broader national reach. ''I saw a brilliant, courageous, fantastic lawyer and all I wanted to do was be with him,'' Mr. Lerach recalled.
 In the years that followed, Milberg, Weiss won multimillion-dollar settlements from a who's who of corporate America, including Philip Morris, Lucent Technologies, Aetna, Visa, MasterCard, Metropolitan Life and Raytheon.
 While Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss operated as comrades in arms, their approaches to cases were very different. Mr. Lerach played bad cop, taking on defendants frontally and battering them with threats, insults and a raft of legal filings. He regularly courted the media, both to raise his own profile and to shine an embarrassing spotlight on defendants in an effort to persuade them to settle rather than litigate. Mr. Weiss, though comfortable in the guise of good cop, still wasn't above leaking information to the press or issuing threats himself. But he usually preferred to negotiate quietly behind the scenes, promising to save defendants from unnecessary ignominy.
 ''If you let them think you're a pussycat you won't be able to settle the case,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''So it's a delicate balance.''
 Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss estimate that Milberg, Weiss has recovered more than $20 billion for investors and consumers since the firm's founding in 1965. The fees it collected in the process gave the firm the resources to marshal enviable legal artillery. On the West Coast, Mr. Lerach assembled a platoon of forensic accountants, private investigators, researchers and other specialists to analyze corporate actions; Mr. Weiss soon put the same machinery in place on the East Coast. The former partners also estimate that Milberg, Weiss has spent more than $100 million since its founding hiring lawyers, building up its investigative team and researching cases. 
 Their efforts also produced abundant personal rewards. Law firms typically get 15 percent to 30 percent of class-action settlements, and Milberg, Weiss collected fees at an unremitting pace. According to court testimony in 1999, relating to a suit that Lexecon Inc. filed against Millberg, Weiss, the firm had profits of $91 million in 1998 alone, and Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss each had income that year of $13.6 million. Neither man disputes the figures, although Mr. Weiss said that the 1990's were peak earning years for the firm. From 1988 to 1999, the court testimony showed, Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss each had earnings of at least $102 million, and their firm had profits of $679 million.
 ''We're no angels. We're driven by the profit motive just like everyone else,'' Mr. Lerach said. ''I make more money in one month sometimes than my father made in his entire life.''
 Mr. Weiss is similarly candid. ''Am I in it for the money? Yes,'' he said. ''What I do with the money is my business.''
 OVER the years, the firm's cases have run the gamut from major social controversies and financial scandals to considerably less weighty issues. Its lawsuit against R.J. Reynolds in 1994 helped lead the way to phasing out the Joe Camel advertising campaign, and it was involved in litigation after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska in 1989. More recently, it filed suit against Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, contending that the company misled investors by not disclosing that the popularity of low-carbohydrate diets was cutting into its sales. But both men reject the suggestion of many of their corporate and Congressional critics that their lawsuits are little more than an elaborate form of blackmail against companies anxious about preserving their reputations and avoiding costly litigation.
 ''You can say whatever you want about tort reform and the plaintiffs' bar but I would argue that if you lose the plaintiffs' bar you lose an important counterweight to corporate abuses,'' Mr. Lerach asserted.
 By the mid-1990's, criticism was mounting as the firm sued one highflying technology concern after another. Detractors in Congress and in Silicon Valley charged that many of the companies operated in highly competitive and unpredictable environments and were guilty only of missing earnings projections. Moreover, some academics and legal analysts argued, Milberg, Weiss's suits caused piles of money to change hands, and did not hinder fraud.
 ''The money in these settlements should come out of the pockets of the executives running the companies, not out of the corporation,'' said Joseph A. Grundfest, a securities professor at Stanford Law School, ''because the way damages are currently awarded you're enriching the plaintiffs' bar, taking money away from shareholders and the corporation, and undermining any deterrent effect penalties have on directors, executives and managers.''
 Milberg, Weiss was also criticized for using the same people as plaintiffs in more than one of its cases, a problem that Mr. Lerach acknowledges but says has been addressed. The United States attorney's office in Los Angeles is investigating whether the firm illegally paid for the testimony of one of its repeat plaintiffs. Mr. Weiss and federal prosecutors declined to comment on the inquiry. ''We've turned over all of the documents they've asked for, and at the end of the day we'll be O.K.,'' Mr. Lerach said.
 Two developments in the 1990's threatened to halt the Milberg, Weiss juggernaut. A Supreme Court ruling in 1994 said that federal law imposed no liability on third parties like accountants, lawyers and banks for knowingly aiding and abetting securities fraud, thus limiting the scope of class-action suits. Then, in 1995, Congress passed the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, a measure aimed squarely at Milberg, Weiss. 
 To weed out frivolous suits, the act required law firms to undertake substantial and expensive investigations to demonstrate possible corporate fraud before judges would allow discovery to begin. It also mandated that lead plaintiff status be conferred on parties that had suffered the heaviest financial damages, ending the race to the courthouse to file cases first.
 But in the end, the act gave Milberg, Weiss -- which could afford lengthy investigations -- an advantage over smaller competitors and encouraged the firm to hunt bigger game. The act also drew large institutional investors to Milberg, Weiss. The large investors could easily demonstrate larger damages than individual plaintiffs, assuring themselves of lead plaintiff status.
 These developments were a prelude to a wave of corporate scandals that started in 2001, making WorldCom and Enron household names and convincing the courts that corporate fraud was not a legal figment.
 ''The climate changed with Enron because judges who had once been much more ready to accept management's statements that they were being victimized by class-action lawsuits were no longer willing to accept that,'' said John C. Coffee Jr., a securities professor at Columbia Law School. ''The entire judiciary no longer took corporate America at its word.''
 Institutional investors, meanwhile, particularly those overseeing public funds, began to look on the plaintiffs' bar much more favorably than Congress, creating a formidable new alliance.
 ''We have just gone through the worst corporate scandals in American history,'' said Alan G. Hevesi, the New York State comptroller, who is lead plaintiff in a class-action suit filed on behalf of WorldCom bondholders. ''One of the remedies to deal with this corruption is to be very active on a number of levels, one of which is securities litigation.''
 THE scandals proved to be fertile ground for Mr. Lerach. In April 2002, he sued Enron, accusing it of misleading investors. Two months later, ruling in a different fraud case, the Supreme Court upheld the concept of ''scheme liability'' -- a decision that gave clever lawyers a way around the court's earlier protection of third parties from liability claims. Mr. Lerach used the concept to assert that Enron's financial advisers, including Citigroup and J.P. Morgan Chase, helped the company commit fraud. His client, the University of California Regents, is lead plaintiff in the case. 
 This month, the Bank of America Corporation agreed to pay $69 million to settle claims against it in the Enron case, but Mr. Lerach is seeking billions of dollars in damages from other Enron advisers who have yet to settle. Those advisers have not admitted to any wrongdoing, but the case may produce a landmark settlement, both in size and in setting legal precedent for suits against outside advisers. ''Enron will be the securities litigation that will define securities litigation for years to come,'' Mr. Lerach said.
 Although Milberg, Weiss was outwardly thriving as the corporate scandals crested, inwardly the firm was seething. Other firms had become adept at cultivating institutional investors as clients, costing it business. The firm's West Coast contingent regarded its East Coast counterpart as slow-moving and unimaginative; for their part, the New York lawyers considered the San Diego lawyers flamboyant and overly combative. 
 ''I think what happened is that two different management styles and public image styles developed between how the East Coast lawyers presented themselves and how Bill presented himself,'' Mr. Weiss said.
 Mr. Lerach offered a variation on this theme. ''I think we wanted to be more aggressive in the way we prosecuted cases than Mel did,'' Mr. Lerach said. ''If you have to boil it down to one thing, that's it.''
 DIFFERENCES had been mounting for years between the firm's star partners, and lawyers close to both men say no single episode accounted for the end of their partnership.
 Nonetheless, current and former associates of both men say the tipping point came in May 2003. Mr. Lerach sent a letter to lawyers from two law firms representing Mr. Hevesi, the New York comptroller, in the WorldCom case, warning them that he would sue the attorneys if their case undermined separate class-action claims that Mr. Lerach had filed in state courts for different plaintiffs. Although Milberg, Weiss was not representing Mr. Hevesi in the WorldCom matter, the firm did represent him on other issues and Mr. Weiss regarded him as one of the firm's most important clients. Mr. Lerach's letter infuriated Mr. Weiss. 
 In a telephone call with Mr. Lerach, the moment that Mr. Weiss described as spontaneous combustion occurred. The partners decided to end 27 years of working together. 
 ''It was very similar to a bad marriage where two people wake up one morning and don't know one another anymore,'' said a lawyer who has worked with both men and spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
 As independents, Mr. Lerach and Mr. Weiss face uncertain futures, but lawyers who have worked with both men say that Mr. Lerach has a crucial head start because he has spent years cultivating most of the firm's institutional clients. Mr. Weiss acknowledged his disadvantage, but also strongly rejected the suggestion that his firm had lost lawyers to morale problems or better offers. Recently, he said, he hired a specialist to court institutional clients.
 As Milberg, Weiss negotiated its separation agreement, clients in some of the firm's top cases, including suits against Qwest, HealthSouth and Vivendi, chose to stay with Mr. Lerach. Other clients in cases involving Tyco, Raytheon and Wall Street issuers of initial public offerings elected to stay with Mr. Weiss.
 Both men nodded in silent assent when asked if the end of the partnership felt like a personal loss. ''I always considered them all members of my family,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''Splitting a firm like this is a monumental job and you do everything you can to avoid it.''
 Milberg, Weiss's full name is now Milberg, Weiss, Bershad & Shulman. Mr. Lerach has named his new San Diego firm Lerach, Coughlin, Stoia & Robbins. Ever the optimist, but trading on a pessimist's understanding of the power of greed, he says he remains in a growth industry. ''I hate to say it because it's not a kind commentary on human nature, but I tell my people that you have to assume the worst about corporations,'' he said. ''I didn't start out as an attorney thinking that way, but experience taught me otherwise.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: William Lerach, left, and Melvyn Weiss were a powerful team until a dispute sundered their law firm and their relationship. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
The firm was involved in a damage suit after the Exxon Valdez oil spill. A $5 billion verdict against Exxon is on appeal. (Photo by Associated Press)
Milberg, Weiss filed some of the cases that became part of a multibillion-dollar settlement with the tobacco industry. (Photo by Getty Images)
In the Enron shareholder suit, the firm won the coveted and potentially lucrative post of lead counsel for plaintiffs. (Photo by Reuters)
A recent suit filed against Krispy Kreme says it projected growth even though low-carb diets were cutting into sales. (Photo by Associated Press)
A lawsuit against Parmalat, the Italian food giant, contends that it overstated profits and assets for a decade or more. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 1)
In January 2002, William Lerach was in Houston, examining shredded documents at Enron's headquarters. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 Melvyn Weiss with Israel Singer of the World Jewish Congress, in 1999. The firm was negotiating a settlement for Nazi-era slave laborers. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 10)Chart: ''Roadblocks With Little Effect''A 1994 Supreme Court ruling protecting third parties in corporate fraud from liability, and the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, intended to curtail frivolous lawsuits, have had little long-term effect on the number of securities class-action filings. Total settlements meanwhile, have been rising recently because of some blockbuster cases, but the median has been relatively flat.Federal securities class-action filingsGraph tracks the number of federal securities class-action filings (suits contending unfair initial public offering allocation practices and all others) from 1991 - 2003.Total settlementsGraph tracks the amount of total settlements (2000 includes a $3.2 billion settlement by Cendant) from 1991 - 2003.Median settlementGraph tracks the median settlement from 1991 - 2003.(Source by NERA Economic Consulting)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); MISCONDUCT (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (50%) Legal Profession; Company and Organization Profiles; Biographical Information; Frauds and Swindling

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (84%); MILBERG LLP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD JEWISH CONGRESS (59%) Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Timothy O'Brien; William Lerach; Melvyn I Weiss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004



233 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Bar Code Detente: U.S. Finally Adds One More Digit

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The humble bar code, the rectangular thicket of slender bars and spaces on products, ignored by shoppers, indecipherable to humans, is joining the forced march of globalization.
 For American retailers, whose checkout-line bar-code scanners will be expected to read the global bar-code standard by Jan. 1, the required changes in computer systems and software programs has echoes of the Y2K computer problem.
 In the not-so-subtle tug-of-war of trade rules and technology standards, the globalization of the bar code represents a small erosion of American industrial hegemony. 
 Europe won this one. The global bar code standard will be the European Article Numbering Code. It turns out that the American Universal Product Code -- which turned 30 years old last month -- was never so universal after all. 
 The difference between the American and the European bar code standards, as it so often is in computing, is a matter of digits. When the Europeans set up their bar code in 1977, patterned after the American standard, they reasonably decided that they needed extra digital space for more products and identifying countries. (There were 12 nations in the European Community at the time.)
 So the European code has 13 digits, while the code used in the United States and Canada has 12. The 13-digit code took off and is used in most other countries. And the American side has finally made an accommodation with reality. The Uniform Code Council, the North American arbiter of bar codes, has told North American retailers that bar-code scanners will have to read the 13-digit codes by January. The 12-digit codes do not die; systems that can read 13-digit codes can also read 12-digit codes. 
 ''But the 13-digit standard is what it's all moving to,'' said Ray Tromba, an expert in retail and consumer products distribution for IBM Global Services. ''The 13-digit is the global standard.'' 
 The bar code's globalization is a sign of its triumph over the years. As the identifying code of modern commerce, it has made possible everything from faster checkout service to sophisticated market research. More than five billion bar-coded products worldwide are scanned every day.
 When the bar code arrived three decades ago, the computer revolution was beginning in earnest. Low-cost, powerful computing and vast databases, experts say, helped reduce labor costs, change the relations between manufacturers and retailers and hasten the rise of efficient mass-merchandisers like Wal-Mart -- and the bar code was central to that revolution. 
 ''The bar code opened a gold mine of data,'' said Janice H. Hammond, a professor at the Harvard business school. ''Without the bar code, it would be a whole different ballgame in retailing than it is today.'' 
 The bar code's story is a striking example of how new technologies become adopted, and perhaps holds some lessons.
 The successful spread of the bar code may seem inevitable, but only in retrospect. Even after its commercial introduction on June 26, 1974, when a pack of Wrigley's Juicy Fruit gum was scanned at a grocery store in Ohio, there were rocky years.
 Consumer groups protested the bar code, saying that shoppers would be cheated if price tags were not on each item. Labor unions decried the possibility of job losses from the labor-saving technology. There were environmental worries that the laser scanners in the bar-code readers might damage people's eyes.
 By 1976, the initial wave of enthusiasm had faded when BusinessWeek magazine ran an article headlined, ''The Supermarket Scanner That Failed.'' Predictions that 1,000 or more grocery stores would have installed bar-code scanning systems by 1976 proved wildly optimistic. Only about 50 stores in the United States had them, BusinessWeek reported, and bar-code equipment makers, including RCA, Pitney-Bowes, Singer and Bunker Ramo, had fled the field.
 In the early years, it took a pioneering spirit and a leap of faith for a company to put in scanning systems. The first was a Marsh Supermarket in Troy, Ohio.
 ''We've always been innovative and tried to be on the leading edge of technology, but that first store wasn't easy,'' recalled Don E. Marsh, the 66-year-old chief executive of Marsh Supermarkets, a regional chain with stores in Ohio and Indiana.
 A faster, more efficient checkout process and instantaneous inventory and sales data were significant benefits. But in the early years, manufacturers did not routinely put bar codes on products, so the stores had to print bar codes and put them on the products. That meant about 200,000 products a week had to be labeled at the Troy supermarket, adding to labor costs.
 ''You don't get an immediate return for some investments,'' Mr. Marsh explained, ''but we did see the potential of the technology.'' 
 Claude Fenstermaker, the current manager of the Troy supermarket, was a 21-year-old assistant manager at the time. ''When it started, I didn't have a clue where the technology was headed,'' Mr. Fenstermaker said. ''Today, I don't know how we would get by without it.''
 Though it took retailers with vision to deploy the bar code in the 1970's, the idea for the technology actually goes back to the late 1940's. Two graduate students at Drexel University, Norman Joseph Woodland and Bernard Silver, first thought of using Morse code, printed out vertically. They later switched to the bars-and-spaces format, and they filed for a patent in 1949, which was issued in 1952. 
 The technology languished until August 1970, when a meeting of chief executives of major retailers and food manufacturers like A&P, Kroger, Winn-Dixie, General Mills, General Foods and H.G. Hines convened at the O'Hare Inn, near the Chicago airport to decide whether to move forward with the technology.
 It was a ''last gasp'' effort to chart a compromise between the retailers and manufacturers, said Stephen A. Brown, former legal counsel to the Grocery Manufacturers of America, who was at the meeting.
 ''Everyone knew the technology was there, but it took the involvement of the top management of the end users of the technology to really push the standard,'' said Mr. Brown, author of ''Revolution at the Checkout Counter: The Explosion of the Bar Code.''
 Eventually, in April 1973, a linear bar code, mainly developed by Mr. Woodland, who was then working for I.B.M., was adopted. The Universal Product Code, as it is called, is a string of digits -- one group to identify the manufacturer, another group to identify the product, and one ''check digit'' for automated error-checking.
 ''The genius of the standard was its simplicity,'' said Tom Brady, a former NCR engineer who helped install the first scanners in Troy, Ohio. ''It is a simple ID that triggers all the electronic data that is now so necessary to modern automated commerce.''
 The technology's standards bodies are becoming a single global group as well. EAN International, based in Brussels, and the Uniform Code Council, based in Lawrenceville, N.J., will be folded into one organization, called GS1, next year. The global headquarters will be in Brussels.
 For American retailers, conforming to the 13-digit standard requires retooling software programs. ''We're well along,'' said John Metzger, chief information officer of A&P. The grocery chain, with 630 stores, has handled the problem as part of a modernization of its technology systems. ''It is important,'' Mr. Metzger said, ''but it is not a shut-the-company-down kind of issue.''
 But are the days of the simple bar code numbered now that new-generation radio frequency identification tags, which can transmit far more data, are arriving on the scene? The expert view is that the two technologies will live together for a long time. 
 ''If I walk into a supermarket 20 years from now and there's a box of cereal without a bar code on it,'' declared Alan Melling, a senior director of Symbol Technologies, which makes both bar code and radio tag readers, ''I'll eat it without opening the box.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Andy Rash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCANNERS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BARCODE EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (61%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (56%) Retail Stores and Trade; Bar Codes; Identification Devices; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: UNIFORM CODE COUNCIL (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%) Uniform Code Council; European Union

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (91%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



234 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: As online sales soar for used books, the publishing industry's fears may sound hauntingly familiar to the music industry.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
IS Amazon.com becoming the Napster of the book business?
 The analogy may not be far off, say some observers of the used-book industry. Publishers, particularly textbook publishers, have long countered used-book sales by churning out new editions every couple of years. But the Web, particularly sites like Amazon and eBay, have given millions of consumers an easy way to find cheap books -- often for under $1 -- without paying royalty fees to publishers or authors.
 Mass-market publishers are not certain the used-book phenomenon is a problem worth addressing, but others in the industry have already made up their minds. 
 ''We think it's not good for the industry and it has an effect, but we can't measure it,'' said Paul Aiken, executive director of the Authors Guild, a trade group. ''There has always been used-book sales, but it's always been a background noise sort of thing. Now it's right there next to the new book on Amazon.''
 Lorraine Shanley, a principal at Market Partners International, a publishing consultant, said that the industry was just starting to appreciate the dimensions of the problem.
 ''Used books are to consumer books as Napster was to the music industry,'' she said. ''The question becomes, 'How does the book industry address its used-book problem?' There aren't any easy answers, especially as no one is breaking any laws here.''
 Ms. Shanley, whose company reported on used books this month in its newsletter, Publishing Trends, said that publishers were beginning to see the effects. ''We've asked publishers how much of an issue it is, and the responses are either 'I have so many other problems to deal with,' or 'Yes, it's an issue, but as there are no easy fixes, I can't really focus on it,''' she said.
 Greg Greeley, Amazon's vice president for media products for North America and Japan, strenuously disagreed with the notion that online sales of used books harmed the publishing industry. And Kathryn Blough, the vice president for the Association of American Publishers, said that she ''wouldn't jump to the conclusion that used books are eating away at the new-book market.'' 
 Ms. Blough said used-book sales were growing, particularly online, and new-book sales had been ''a little flat.'' The publishers association reported earlier this year that 2003 sales for mass-market paperbacks and for hardcover and paperback books were virtually unchanged from 2002, when they reached roughly $3.5 billion. But Ms. Blough said the new-book market could be weak for several reasons, including a slow economy and a sharp increase in other media vying for the book reader's attention.
 Amazon has listed used books alongside new books since late 2000. But analysts and industry executives said the momentum among consumers and newly minted used-book sellers was just now approaching the point of biting into new-book sales.
 ''We've not been able to pinpoint a definite effect, but my gut is that absolutely there's an effect,'' said Dominique Raccah, chief executive of Sourcebooks Inc. of Naperville, Ill., a publisher of both fiction and nonfiction titles. ''And it concerns me that we're not formalizing a reasonable, proactive response.''
 The industry's response so far has been to consider a study on the effects of the used-book market, but in the meantime, some research already suggests that used-book purchases are surging.
 Based on consumer surveys, Ipsos BookTrends, which is a division of the research and consulting firm Ipsos-Insight, said that 15 percent of all books for adults and teenagers that were purchased from April to December 2003 were used -- an increase of 5 percentage points from the same period in 2002. Meanwhile, the Web's share of sales in the same time period increased to 12.7 percent from 9.7 percent.
 ''This is not a new phenomenon,'' said Albert N. Greco, a professor at Fordham University's graduate school of business administration. ''But now it's different. The computer and the Internet have revolutionized things.''
 Furthermore, Mr. Greco said, there is no stigma attached to buying used books. ''It's not like buying a used pair of shoes. And the prices are very reasonable,'' he said. ''You can find good-quality used paperbacks on Amazon for under $2, and in some cases under $1.''
 Last week, for instance, used copies of Alexander McCall Smith's detective novel ''Tears of the Giraffe,'' which was No.5 on Amazon's paperback best-seller list, sold for 55 cents, compared to Amazon's list price of $9.56.
 Of course, Amazon and eBay are not the only used-book merchants online. Alibris, the Advanced Book Exchange and others have also attracted a following among online buyers of the dog-eared. But industry executives and analysts widely acknowledge Amazon as the engine of the market.
 Mr. Greeley, the Amazon executive, declined to cite statistics on the company's used-book effort, but he said sales had been growing nicely since Amazon started listing used books alongside new books and offering to sell its customers' used books for a 15 percent commission. Low-volume sellers must pay an additional commission of 99 cents a book.
 Mr. Greeley said the site now carried ''millions and millions of titles -- many that you can't find through traditional channels.''
 Mr. Greeley also disputes the contention that Amazon could be hurting publishers or authors by selling books that yield no royalties. ''Our interests are incredibly aligned with publishers and authors,'' he said. ''We see this as a virtuous cycle. The lower prices of used books allow people to experiment with authors and genres in ways they might not have otherwise.
 ''We definitely see people who buy at a lower price point come back and buy new books in that same genre,'' Mr. Greeley added.
 Advanced Book Exchange, a Canadian company that sells books through its Web site, Abebooks.com, recently added new books to its offering of used titles. Executives said that the company's used-book sales were increasing 20 to 30 percent a year, reaching $110 million in the last 12 months. That figure includes sales in Canada and Europe, but 70 percent of online sales are to American customers. 
 Abebooks.com's number of used-book sellers has also jumped, to 12,000 from 8,000 two years ago, the company said. And the number of books available roughly doubled, to 55 million from 30 million, in the same period.
 The company's chief executive, Hannes Blum, said he believed new-book sales might be even softer were it not for the used-books market. ''We're increasing the demand for books over all,'' he said.
 But Professor Greco of Fordham, who conducts publishing industry research on behalf of the Book Industry Study Group, said he was ''absolutely convinced that used-book sales will ultimately cut into an industry that's not growing at all.''
 He said that when publishers began to study the impact of used books on their backlists -- the roster of older paperback books that enjoy steady demand from students and the mass market -- they would find signs of damage from the used-book sellers. 
 ''Trade publishing houses live and die with their backlist revenues,'' Professor Greco said. ''The thing is, when you've got 8,000 to 12,000 titles in your backlists, unless you monitor carefully you won't notice the blips, because they're small right now. Ultimately, though, they won't be.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dominique Raccah, chief executive of the publishing company Sourcebooks, said the industry had no formal response to online used-book sales ''and it concerns me.'' (Photo by Steve Kagan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (93%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LITERATURE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Books and Literature; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Book Trade; Sales

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (92%); AMAZON.COM INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; Ebay Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



235 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3672 words

HEADLINE: An Exodus of African Nurses Puts Infants and the Ill in Peril

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: LILONGWE, Malawi 

 BODY:
Six women suddenly went into the final, agonized minutes of childbirth. Hlalapi Kunkeyani was the only nurse. There were no doctors. 
 Panicky cries rent the fetid air of the ward, a cavernous space jammed with 20 women laboring in beds, on benches, even on the concrete floor. Mrs. Kunkeyani worked with intense concentration, her face glowing with sweat, but she was overwhelmed.
 Four of the babies arrived in a rush without her to ease their passage into the world. She found one trapped between his mother's legs with the umbilical cord wrapped around his chest. The face of another was smeared with his mother's feces. Yet a third lay still on his mother's breast, desperate to breathe. The nurse swiftly suctioned his tiny mouth until at last he gulped a breath. 
 Mrs. Kunkeyani, 36, is the stalwart nurse in charge of this capital city's main labor ward, where 10 overworked nurse midwives deliver more than 10,000 babies a year. But soon, she will vanish from this impoverished nation, joining thousands of African nurses streaming away from their AIDS-haunted continent for rich countries, primarily Britain.
 ''My friends are telling me there's work there, there's money there,'' said Mrs. Kunkeyani, who will soon make in a day's overtime in Britain what she earns in a month in Malawi. ''They're telling me I'm wasting my time here.''
 The nursing staffs of public health systems across the poor countries of Africa -- grossly insufficient to begin with -- are being battered by numerous factors that include attrition and AIDS. But none are creating greater anxiety in Africa than the growing flight of nurses discouraged by low pay and grueling conditions. 
 The result of the nursing crisis -- the neglect of the sick -- is starkly apparent here on the dilapidated wards of Lilongwe Central Hospital, where a single nurse often looks after 50 or more desperately ill people. What is equally visible is the boon to Britain, where Lilongwe Central's former nurses minister to the elderly in the carpeted lounges of nursing homes and to patients in hushed private hospital rooms.
 It is the poor subsidizing the rich, since African governments paid to educate many of the health care workers who are leaving.
 In May, African countries banded together at the annual assembly of the World Health Organization to urge developed nations to compensate them for their lost investment. After an intense debate, the assembled countries resolved to search for ways to lessen the damage of what they called increasing rates of emigration. 
 The brain drain of health professionals from Africa, and, more broadly, the severe staffing shortages, will be an issue at the 15th International AIDS Conference in Bangkok. Physicians for Human Rights, a Boston-based nonprofit group that shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997, will be releasing a report on the topic and proposing steps to avert a deepening of the human resources crisis.
 At Lilongwe Central, an 830-bed hospital, there are supposed to be 532 nurses. Only 183 are left. That is about half as many as there were just six years ago. And only 30 of those are registered nurses, the highly skilled cadre that is most sought abroad. 
 The hospital's director, Dr. Damson Kathyola, a peasant's son educated at University College London, seems to feel an almost physical pain when he describes trying to run a major medical institution that is hemorrhaging nurses.
 ''Unbearable,'' he said, leaning his head back and squeezing his eyes shut. ''Unbearable.''
 In Malawi, afflicted with one of Africa's most severe nursing shortages, almost two-thirds of the nursing jobs in the public health system are vacant. More registered nurses have left to work abroad in the past four years than the 336 who remain in the public hospitals and clinics that serve most of the country's 11.6 million people, according to Malawi's Nurses and Midwives Council.
 Many of these English-speaking nurses have flocked to Britain, which is confronting its own acute shortage of nurses to care for an aging population. Its central nursing register shows that the number of nurses being certified from Malawi, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Botswana -- all former British colonies -- has soared since 1999. 
 African nurses are also migrating, though in smaller numbers, to the United States and New Zealand, with trickles to Australia and Canada. There are now more than 3,100 registered nurses from Africa in the United States, according to a national survey of nurses by the Department of Health and Human Services.
 As projections show the shortfall of nurses in the United States ballooning to 800,000 by 2020, the pressure to recruit abroad is likely to grow.
 ''The U.K.'s experience could be a harbinger of what we'll see in the U.S.,'' said Julie Sochalski, associate professor of nursing at the University of Pennsylvania.
 But Africa's nurses are not just moving overseas. They are also quitting government service for better-paying jobs in their own countries at private hospitals and foreign-financed nonprofit groups and research institutions. 
 Thousands more have left the profession or are simply dying, especially in southern Africa, where rates of H.I.V. infection are highest. In Malawi, a quarter of public health workers, including nurses, will be dead, mostly of AIDS and tuberculosis, by 2009, according to a study of worker death rates in 40 hospitals here. Drugs for people with AIDS have been unaffordable up to now.
 The bottom line: sub-Saharan Africa's low-income countries need to more than double their nursing work forces, adding at least 620,000 nurses to grapple with severe health emergencies, according to estimates developed for the Joint Learning Initiative, a network of more than 100 scholars and analysts studying human resources for health and coordinated from Harvard University.
 The nursing crisis is intensifying just as billions of dollars in foreign aid is beginning to pour into Africa to provide life-saving drugs to millions of people afflicted with AIDS and tuberculosis.
 The money includes the first installment on a total of $15 billion promised by President Bush and $2 billion from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
 The shortage of nurses compromises the ability of countries to use this money effectively, and the money itself is likely to aggravate the nursing shortage in public hospitals. A substantial portion will be channeled to nonprofit groups that are likely to hire away yet more nurses at higher pay.
 As the world focuses its resources on AIDS, the risk is that more women giving birth and more children needing hospital care for easily treatable conditions like respiratory infections and diarrhea will die, experts say.
 ''I think it will destroy the whole system,'' Dr. Kathyola said.

One Nurse and 26 Babies
 To spend a few weeks roaming the wards of Lilongwe Central is to see the human cost of the nursing shortage. 
 Late one night on the nursery for sick and premature newborns, the sole nurse on duty stepped away -- and 26 babies, packed two and three to a bassinet, were on their own.
 In one crib, a tiny baby girl, blue and dead, lay next to her sister, eyes open, tiny fists clenched, mouth yawning. 
 Earlier, on the day shift, Tereza Kachingwe, a rotund, kindly nurse, had steadfastly stood by the premature babies, trying to keep them alive. But the hospital had run out of the thinnest tubes needed to suction such miniature throats.
 ''If this tube was smaller, I could go deeper into the trachea,'' she said ruefully, as she easily held one of the featherweight newborns in her palm, sweeping the tube back and forth in the infant's mouth.
 Mrs. Kachingwe looked around at the many other babies who needed her attention, then turned back to the tiniest ones barely clinging to life. ''Today, I'm stranded,'' she sighed. 
 On another day in the gynecological ward, Tandu Mbvundula was the only nurse tending 51 patients, dispensing pills and a bare minimum of words. Unsmiling, she pushed a medicine cart into a room so packed with patients that some lay on the concrete floor in the darkened spaces beneath the beds. 
 She rolled up to Mary Kaliyati, a mother of five whose uterus had ruptured giving birth in a mission hospital. Mrs. Kaliyati was transferred to Lilongwe Central. After surgery to remove her uterus, she had developed an infection. 
 The nurse explained that the hospital was out of its most potent antibiotic, so she had given Mrs. Kaliyati a weaker combination. The first round had failed. The woman was still feverish. So the nurse was giving her a second round of the same weaker antibiotics.
 Will the treatment work? 
 Mrs. Mbvundula shrugged numbly. ''Maybe,'' she said, and then moved on.
 Hospital officials say the rate at which women die of causes related to pregnancy at Lilongwe Central has held steady in recent years, but cases of ruptured uteruses have sharply spiked. Dr. Bernard Reich, one of only two obstetricians working at Lilongwe Central, said such complications should simply not happen to women giving birth in a hospital.
 In Malawi as a whole, the rate at which women die of causes related to pregnancy almost doubled from 1992 to 2000. One in 89 births results in the death of the mother, among the worst such rates in the world.
 A 2001 review of hundreds of confidential maternal death audits from 18 hospitals in southern Malawi found that more than half the deaths were associated with substandard hospital care.
 ''It's the worst change in a health indicator -- outside of wars and natural disasters -- that I've seen in the 36 years I've been knocking around developing countries,'' said William Aldis, who represents the World Health Organization in Malawi. ''It tells me that there's a catastrophic failure of the health system in this country to meet the minimum needs of the population. The sheer lack of skilled people is the major contributing factor.''
 The Ministry of Health in Malawi is proposing an increase in the number of nurses and health professionals being trained, while more than doubling their pay. Major donors, including Britain and the Global Fund, said they recognized that Malawi faced a staffing emergency and would provide financial support to help it hang on to its health workers. 
 Here at Lilongwe Central, registered nurses, who make about $1,900 a year, said if their pay were doubled or tripled, they would be more likely to stay, but added that they had heard such promises before.
 In recent interviews with the hospital's 30 remaining registered nurses, 20 said they planned to leave for better paying jobs in Malawi or abroad. Six more said they were thinking about it.
 Beatrice Mkandawire, 40, a senior nurse on the children's ward and a mother of four, dedicated her entire salary from the month of May -- $145 -- toward paying the initial $215 fee to register as a nurse in Britain. She and her husband will beg for help from relatives and skimp on food to make ends meet. She hopes to be there by the end of the year.
 Tall and stately in a pristine white dress, she wondered sorrowfully, ''If I leave, who will look after the patients when I'm gone?''
 A good deal of damage to the hospital's staff is already done. Workloads worsen every time another nurse leaves. Even the most basic supplies and medicines are in short supply or simply absent.
 The labor ward at Bottom Hospital, an aging appendage to Lilongwe Central, is especially afflicted. The hospital got its name because it is at the bottom of a hill and also because it served poor Africans during British rule. The British went to Top Hospital at the top of the hill.
 The sewage system at Bottom has never worked properly. The maternity ward often smells like a toilet. Blood, sweat and amniotic fluid have seeped through torn vinyl covers into the thin mattresses, adding to the stale odor. 
 There are no bed linens, or enough scissors to cut umbilical cords. Pregnant women are required to bring a thin plastic sheet to lie on and a razor blade to slice the cord. If they forget the razor, nurses scold them and take one from the supply cabinet, breaking it in half to double its use. 
 Bathrooms used by nurses often lack soap, raising the risk of passing infection. For two days in May, nurses refused to do vaginal exams because the ward was almost out of latex gloves -- this in a country where nurses have to assume that any woman they examine may be H.I.V. positive.
 With only 10 nurses to cover the ward around the clock, they often have to work extra shifts. The hospital has almost no money for such expenses. For overtime, they earn less than 20 cents an hour.

Lured by Money and Comfort
 Mrs. Kunkeyani, the glue who holds the labor ward together, has decided she must leave Malawi for the sake of her family.
 Like many employed people in a country where life expectancy has fallen to 38 years, she and her husband, Isaac, a civil engineer, are helping support eight orphaned nieces and nephews, as well as their 9-year-old daughter.
 The Kunkeyanis have been trying to complete construction of their red brick home over the past two and a half years, but money has been scarce.
 For almost a year, they lived without electricity. They cooked over a wood fire behind the house. They ate dinner by the light of a hurricane lantern. Mrs. Kunkeyani rose at 5 each morning to heat pails of water for bathing.
 Their money woes are constant and nagging. Her daughter was recently sent home from the private school she attends because the Kunkeyanis had not kept up with the fees. They can only afford meat once a week, on Saturday. They drink their tea black, to save on the cost of milk.
 When the letter of acceptance from Britain's Nursing and Midwifery Council arrived in April, Mr. Kunkeyani ripped it open. He phoned his wife, at work on the ward. She said she literally jumped for joy.
 Mrs. Kunkeyani has only to look to her elder cousin, Jane Banda, to see what her family can gain by moving to Britain. Like Mrs. Kunkeyani, Mrs. Banda was herself the nurse in charge on the labor ward at Bottom in the mid-1990's and led Malawi's national breast-feeding program until she moved to England in 2001.
 Mrs. Banda, 44, reared the teenage Mrs. Kunkeyani and inspired her to be a nurse. Once again, she has scouted the way ahead.
 She now lives in a modest two-story house on a quiet, winding lane in a tidy English city that she asked not be named to protect her privacy. She works full time as a nurse on a surgical recovery ward in a National Health Service hospital where she cares for five patients or so. 
 ''Here, you go into wards, they're spic and span, like hotels,'' she said admiringly.
 She puts in another 10 hours a week in an elegantly appointed nursing home looking after elderly men and women who sit in comfortable club chairs watching television.
 Her husband, B. F. Banda, a slender, bespectacled former bureaucrat, used to be in charge of human resources planning for Malawi in the office of the president -- a good perch for assessing the shortcomings in pay for government nurses and their value elsewhere.
 He explained that Malawian nurses like his wife who go to Britain generally started in private nursing homes. Once established, they apply to the National Health Service, which offers a steady salary and good benefits. 
 Despite taxes and the higher cost of living, Mrs. Banda said she lived comfortably. Starting pay for a nurse in the National Health Service is about $31,000, but she has progressed beyond that. She also earns $21 for each hour of overtime.
 Mrs. Banda is able to send more money home to her parents each month than her cousin, Mrs. Kunkeyani, earns in a month.
 ''If I'm broke, I simply phone her and the following day she sends me 200 pounds,'' said Mrs. Banda's husband, who remains in Malawi and now works as a management consultant.
 With their expanded income, the Bandas are building a new house in Lilongwe, where she will settle after their three children finish school in Britain. It is ornamented with intricate, wood-inlaid ceilings and glittery terrazzo pillars. It will boast servants quarters, an orchard of mango, guava and banana trees and security cameras at a gated entrance.
 Another nurse who left Lilongwe Central, after 15 years there, is Chimewmwe Nhlane, who has worked in a private hospital in Bristol for three years. She is thrilled with her new job. Her salary tops $35,000 a year, and she receives annual merit raises and bonuses. For outstanding work, the hospital gives her a box of chocolates or a bottle of wine.
 She tells the British nurses she works with, ''What I'm doing here is child's play compared to what I was doing at home.''
 The recruitment of nurses like Mrs. Banda and Mrs. Nhlane has long been a sore subject with Britain's former African colonies.
 Nelson Mandela, when he was South Africa's president, criticized Britain for recruiting its health workers. The country has spent $1 billion educating health workers who migrated abroad -- the equivalent of a third of all development aid it received from 1994 to 2000, according to a report of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 But even as the British prime minister, Tony Blair, has championed increased foreign aid to Africa, his government has faced political pressure to improve health care at home. The government has since hired tens of thousands of nurses, many from overseas.
 In 2001, Britain adopted codes to limit the government's active recruitment of health professionals from developing countries. But the code does not apply to private recruitment agencies or private employers. 
 Nor does it prohibit the National Health Service from hiring foreign nurses who apply on their own. Since 1998, 12,115 African nurses have registered to work in Britain.
 A debate has begun within the British government about the migration of health workers. Sarah Mullally, chief nursing officer for the Department of Health, said, ''We can't stop mobility -- that would be against human rights to say people can't move.'' 
 But Suma Chakrabarti, who heads Britain's Department for International Development, voiced discomfort with some consequences of government policies.
 ''Frankly, it's too easy to get into the U.K., which may be good for the U.K., but may have a deleterious effect on Malawi,'' said Mr. Chakrabarti, who visited Lilongwe Central earlier this year and saw firsthand its depleted staff. 
 A similar debate is going on in Malawi. Joseph Mutso-Bengo, a professor of bioethics at Malawi's College of Medicine, noted that nurses could barely make ends meet and asked, ''Do we have the right to force them to stay?''
 But Anthony D. Harries, a British doctor who has lived and worked here for 15 years and advises the Health Ministry, called it immoral for Britain to allow the easy migration of Malawian nurses. 
 ''Come on,'' he said, ''train your own unemployed people.''

Hard Time at the Labor Ward
 Night had fallen. The labor ward at Bottom seethed with the moans, shrieks and whimpers of women suffering through childbirth. ''The Look of Love'' played scratchily on a transistor radio propped on the counter. Babies were being born at a steady, intense pace. The two nurses on duty sometimes did not have time even to mop up puddles of amniotic fluid and blood the new mothers lay in before moving to another bedside.
 As the clock neared midnight, the two nurses had already delivered a dozen babies and still had eight or nine hours of work ahead of them.
 ''Nurse, nurse, please help me, I'm in pain,'' pleaded one woman. 
 Lesnat Chatambalala, a small-boned, soft-spoken nurse, approached her and said tersely, ''It isn't time yet.''
 ''Please, help me, I'm begging you,'' the woman insisted in a quavering voice.
 Mrs. Chatambalala walked away. 
 She began talking about her desire to quit for work in a private organization in Malawi that pays better. ''I'm willing to go to the U.K., but I can't leave my kids,'' she said miserably.
 For Mrs. Chatambalala, 36, there is no respite. Her husband, a high school biology teacher, was hospitalized last year. Doctors found he had a candida infection common to people with AIDS. But before he could be tested, he jumped off a fourth-floor balcony in Lilongwe Central. Mrs. Chatambalala is now the sole support for their four children. 
 After 15 hours of hard labor on the ward, she trudged the final steps home in her dusty black pumps and white dress. Her children were in the courtyard waiting for her. Two-year-old Sterns climbed in her lap and wrapped his arms around her neck. More work lay ahead of her. There were children to be bathed, a house to be cleaned.
 Back on the labor ward, an exhausted Mrs. Kunkeyani was starting her seventh straight day shift. She was alone when the babies started coming out in such rapid succession that she could not be there for four of the births. She and the women there described later what had happened.
 Faida Yusuf, 20, had her first baby alone on the floor. The force of the final push ripped her vaginal wall because Mrs. Kunkeyani was not present to guide the baby boy's head at its narrowest diameter or to make a neat incision.
 Finally, four hours later, Mrs. Kunkeyani found time to suture the tear, but Mrs. Yusuf pulled away. A big-hearted woman with reserves of steely religious faith, Mrs. Kunkeyani coaxed and cajoled the frightened young mother. ''Don't be scared,'' she said soothingly. ''You've already been brave. Please trust me. You know when somebody is cut by a razor blade. It hurts, right?''
 ''Yes,'' Mrs. Faida said uncertainly. 
 ''So it's like that,'' the nurse told her, explaining she needed to give her an injection to blunt the pain. ''Be brave. The tear is inside.''
 Again, the mother drew away, pulling her legs close into her body.
 ''You must lie back,'' Mrs. Kunkeyani insisted. ''We can't leave the wound. It has to be stitched. There's no other way. You're saying you're hungry. You can't eat until I finish. What do you want me to do? Leave?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The pediatrics ward at Malawi's Lilongwe Central Hospital, which is facing a crisis as its nurses move overseas, mainly to Britain, for better jobs. Ten nurse midwives deliver more than 10,000 babies a year at the hospital.
A boy, not yet 2, at Lilongwe Central Hospital suffering from heart disease, pneumonia and anemia. (Photographs by Mariella Furrer for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
Chimewmwe Nhlane left Lilongwe Central for a hospital in Bristol, where she said the work was ''child's play'' next to what she did at home. (Photo by Steve Forrest for The New York Times)(pg. A7)
Hlalapi Kunkeyani, tending to a mother and her new baby at a Malawi hospital, will soon work in Britain. (Photo by Mariella Furrer for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Critical Nursing Shortage''Facing low pay and grueling conditions, growing numbers of African nurses are leaving for wealthy nations. More are sick with AIDS-related illnesses or have left government service.Graph tracks both nurses from Malawi and Africa who were admitted to British registry from 1999-2003.The decrease in 2003 was caused by a backlog of applications. A significant increase is expected in 2004.NURSES PER 100,000 PEOPLEMalawi: 29Britain: 840VACANCY RATES IN MALAWINurses: 64%Surgeons: 85OB-GYN's: 91Pediatricians: 92(Sources by Nursing and Midwifery Council of the United Kingdom
Royal College of Nursing, London
 Malawi Ministry of Health)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (87%); HOSPITALS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MIDWIVES (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); OVERTIME (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) Medicine and Health; Nursing and Nurses; Shortages; Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%) World Health Organization

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) MALAWI (96%); AFRICA (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Africa; Malawi; Great Britain; New Zealand

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



236 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: A Recovery Trying to Keep Its Legs Suddenly Feels Woozy

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Retail sales slowed in June. Auto purchases declined. Several technology companies warned about weak software and hardware spending at the end of the second quarter.
 Less than three years since the United States emerged from a recession, a patchwork of unexpectedly soft economic reports is raising doubts about the vigor of the recovery. 
 ''At every client meeting I have,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, ''I'm asked whether a slowdown has hit the U.S. economy.'' 
 Indeed, stock prices have faltered since the end of June, as corporate earnings have disappointed investors. And bond prices have risen, as evidence of economic fragility has allayed fears that inflation will accelerate. The recent sluggish economic indicators have inspired a note of caution in forecasts which until now had been unabashedly bullish.
 ''Economic data over the next several weeks are likely to follow the theme of slower growth with continued inflationary pressures,'' wrote Andrew Tilton, an Goldman Sachs economist, in a note to clients. ''In addition to a weaker trend of consumer spending, we expect some modest deceleration in factory sector activity.''
 But, despite the scattered straws in the wind, most economists remain confident that economic growth is not collapsing but is shifting to a lower, more sustainable rate.
 ''The economy has come off its peak in the last couple of months,'' said Martin A. Regalia, chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''People have dropped their forecasts to about 3.5 percent. That's still a pretty solid number.''
 As the nation has rebounded from the recession of 2001, the main theme has been the ability of consumers to continue borrowing and spending. Near record-low interest rates allowed homeowners to refinance their mortgages, taking money out of their homes to pay for renovations and all sorts of consumer durables. Dirt-low interest rates allowed auto companies and others to offer zero interest-rate loans to stimulate sales. 
 Eventually, this dynamic was expected to end, as the recovery took hold and interest rates started rising. But even as debt-financed consumption waned, most economists expected two new sources of growth to kick in. First, a rising number of jobs would increase the overall wage pie -- helping maintain consumer spending. Second, businesses, which spent the earlier part of the recovery paying down the debt amassed during the dot-com boom, would again start investing in new equipment. 
 Rising oil prices, however, have complicated this switch. Spurring a jump in inflation and taking a big bite out of the wallets of consumers, rising energy prices have raised the question of whether, combined with higher interest rates, they could depress consumer spending before the new sources of growth could gather sufficient steam. 
 Signs of the end of consumers' exuberance have popped up in several areas. Year-over-year growth in spending slowed to 4.1 percent in May, in real terms, the slowest pace since January. And there is anecdotal evidence of dreary sales in June. At Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, sales climbed 2.2 percent in the last month, the smallest gain in over a year. At The Gap Inc., the clothing chain, comparable store sales in June actually fell 2 percent after several months of strong results. 
 June was also sour for automakers. The General Motors Corporation reported sales that fell 15 percent and the Ford Motor Company reported an 8 percent drop from the same month a year earlier. Citing the ''difficult new vehicle retail environment that we are operating in,'' AutoNation Inc., America's largest automotive retailer, trimmed its earnings forecasts for the second quarter.
 The corporate sector has also shown some fragility. Business investment had perked up this year after being absent during much of the earlier recovery. But in the second quarter, corporate investment seemed to fall back. 
 New orders of nondefense capital goods, excluding aircraft, fell 2.1 percent in April and 3.5 percent in May. And business spending on technology has seemingly remained weak. Since the beginning of July, 32 technology companies have issued warnings of lower second-quarter profits, according to Thomson First Call, while only one has increased its earnings projections.
 Against this weaker economic backdrop, the Labor Department's report of an abrupt slowdown in job creation last month, which was accompanied by a fall in the average number of hours in the workweek and a meager increase in hourly wages, raised a question mark over the standard account of the economy's evolution.
 ''Now the only real positive for the consumer is income and job growth,'' Mr. Harris at Lehman said. ''If the labor market really slows down it would be a blow to the consumer and we could talk of growth slipping to below trend.''
 But it is still too early to make that call. Indeed, Mr. Harris and most Wall Street economists view the June employment report as an aberration, and believe job growth will return to a more robust growth trend in July. If this is true, the economic recovery might do fine. Other data foreshadowing emerging weakness might just be a function of the changing sources of economic growth; not a signal of its demise. 
 ''We've gone from an economy on life support driven by super aggressive 'refi' to one driven by more traditional sources of consumer income, which are jobs,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig. ''In the transition, we may see a change in the sectors that do best.''
 Many economic variables remain strong. Personal income, a major driver of consumer spending, is growing. Mortgage applications are still increasing. Home sales are at record levels. The Institute of Supply Management's Purchasing Managers Index -- historically an accurate gauge of manufacturing activity -- is indicating only a mild slowdown in the second half from a strong period of expansion in the first. 
 Moreover, with interest rates still near their all-time lows it is harder to build a case for a sudden economic retrenchment than to explain continued growth.
 The economy ''is firing on all cylinders and the structure of interest rates is still crazy easy,'' Mr. Barbera said. Given that backdrop, he added, ''I'm willing to cast a blind eye to the past 30 days' data.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: One customer shops for a digital camera at this Sears store outside Chicago. Technology sales are slowing. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Shifting Down''Several indicators of economic growth have declined or leveled off recently.NEW ORDERS OF NONDEFENSE CAPITAL GOODS -- Excluding aircraftGraph tracks the total amount generated from new orders of nondefense capital goods (excluding aircraft) from Jan. - May 2004.RETAIL SALES -- Excluding vehicle and gasoline salesGraph tracks retail sales (excluding vehicle and gasoline sales) from Jan. - May 2004.YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGSGraph tracks the year-over-year percentage change in average hourly earnings from Jan. - June 2004.(Sources by Economy.com
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); RETAIL SALES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); TRENDS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BONDS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (62%); BOND MARKETS (55%) United States Economy; United States Economy

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



237 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: European Work Hours

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 How sad that the Europeans are beginning to emulate American work hours (front page, July 7). In aspiring to American-style gross domestic products, they may just find themselves with more American-style problems, like increased incidence of depression, obesity, youth crime and breakdown of family relationships -- all of which place an increasing burden on the economy.
 American economic prosperity may enable the average American to enjoy more comforts and luxuries than the average European. But for all that, Americans don't necessarily have a higher standard of living than other (developed) nations -- just a higher standard of ''having.''

DIANA B. AUSTIN
San Rafael, Calif., July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Working Hours

PERSON: Diana B Austin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



238 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Trade Agreement May Undercut Importing of Inexpensive Drugs

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11 

 BODY:
Congress is poised to approve an international trade agreement that could have the effect of thwarting a goal pursued by many lawmakers of both parties: the import of inexpensive prescription drugs to help millions of Americans without health insurance.
 The agreement, negotiated with Australia by the Bush administration, would allow pharmaceutical companies to prevent imports of drugs to the United States and also to challenge decisions by Australia about what drugs should be covered by the country's health plan, the prices paid for them and how they can be used.
 It represents the administration's model for strengthening the protection of expensive brand-name drugs in wealthy countries, where the biggest profits can be made.
 In negotiating the pact, the United States, for the first time, challenged how a foreign industrialized country operates its national health program to provide inexpensive drugs to its own citizens. Americans without insurance pay some of the world's highest prices for brand-name prescription drugs, in part because the United States does not have such a plan. 
 Only in the last few weeks have lawmakers realized that the proposed Australia trade agreement -- the Bush administration's first free trade agreement with a developed country -- could have major implications for health policy and programs in the United States.
 The debate over drug imports, an issue with immense political appeal, has been raging for four years, with little reference to the arcane details of trade policy. Most trade agreements are so complex that lawmakers rarely investigate all the provisions, which typically cover such diverse areas as manufacturing, tourism, insurance, agriculture and, increasingly, pharmaceuticals.
 Bush administration officials oppose legalizing imports of inexpensive prescription drugs, citing safety concerns. Instead, with strong backing from the pharmaceutical industry, they have said they want to raise the price of drugs overseas to spread the burden of research and development that is borne disproportionately by the United States.
 Many Democrats, with the support of AARP, consumer groups and a substantial number of Republicans, are promoting legislation to lower drug costs by importing less expensive medicines from Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan and other countries where prices are regulated through public health programs.
 These two competing approaches represent very different ways of helping Americans who typically pay much more for brand-name prescription drugs than people in the rest of the industrialized world.
 Leaders in both houses of Congress hope to approve the free trade agreement in the next week or two. Last Thursday, the House Ways and Means Committee endorsed the pact, which promises to increase American manufacturing exports by as much as $2 billion a year and preserve jobs here.
 Health advocates and officials in developing countries have intensely debated the effects of trade deals on the ability of poor nations to provide inexpensive generic drugs to their citizens, especially those with AIDS.
 But in Congress, the significance of the agreement for health policy has generally been lost in the trade debate. 
 The chief sponsor of the Senate bill, Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said: ''This administration opposes re-importation even to the extent of writing barriers to it into its trade agreements. I don't understand why our trade ambassador is inserting this prohibition into trade agreements before Congress settles the issue.''
 Senator John McCain, an author of the drug-import bill, sees the agreement with Australia as hampering consumers' access to drugs from other countries. His spokesman said the senator worried that ''it only protects powerful special interests.''
 Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior analyst at the Institute for International Economics, said ''the Australia free trade agreement is a skirmish in a larger war'' over how to reduce the huge difference in prices paid for drugs in the United States and the rest of the industrialized world.
 Kevin Outterson, an associate law professor at West Virginia University, agreed.
 ''The United States has put a marker down and is now using trade agreements to tell countries how they can reimburse their own citizens for prescription drugs,'' he said.
 The United States does not import any significant amount of low-cost prescription drugs from Australia, in part because federal laws effectively prohibit such imports. But a number of states are considering imports from Australia and Canada, as a way to save money, and American officials have made clear that the Australia agreement sets a precedent they hope to follow in negotiations with other countries.
 Trade experts and the pharmaceutical industry offer no assurance that drug prices will fall in the United States if they rise abroad.
 Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the panel's trade subcommittee, voted for the agreement, which could help industries in his state. But Mr. Levin said the trade pact would give a potent weapon to opponents of the drug-import bill, who could argue that ''passing it would violate our international obligations.''
 Such violations could lead to trade sanctions costing the United States and its exporters millions of dollars.
 One provision of the trade agreement with Australia protects the right of patent owners, like drug companies, to ''prevent importation'' of products on which they own the patents. Mr. Dorgan's bill would eliminate this right.
 The trade pact is ''almost completely inconsistent with drug-import bills'' that have broad support in Congress, Mr. Levin said.
 But Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said, ''The only workable procedure is to write trade agreements according to current law.'' 
 For years, drug companies have objected to Australia's Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, under which government officials decide which drugs to cover and how much to pay for them. Before the government decides whether to cover a drug, experts analyze its clinical benefits, safety and ''cost-effectiveness,'' compared with other treatments.
 The trade pact would allow drug companies to challenge decisions on coverage and payment.
 Joseph M. Damond, an associate vice president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, said Australia's drug benefit system amounted to an unfair trade practice.
 ''The solution is to get rid of these artificial price controls in other developed countries and create real marketplace incentives for innovation,'' Mr. Damond said.
 While the trade pact has barely been noticed here, it has touched off an impassioned national debate in Australia, where the Parliament is also close to approving it.
 The Australian trade minister, Mark Vaile, promised that ''there is nothing in the free trade agreement that would increase drug prices in Australia.''
 But a recent report from a committee of the Australian Parliament saw a serious possibility that ''Australians would pay more for certain medicines,'' and that drug companies would gain more leverage over government decisions there.
 Bush administration officials noted that the Trade Act of 2002 said its negotiators should try to eliminate price controls and other regulations that limit access to foreign markets. 
 Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the former commissioner of food and drugs now in charge of Medicare and Medicaid, said last year that foreign price controls left American consumers paying most of the cost of pharmaceutical research and development, and that, he said, was unacceptable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DRUG PRICES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; International Trade and World Market; Generic and Brand Name Products; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



239 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: AFGHAN PRESIDENT DESCRIBES MILITIAS AS THE TOP THREAT

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, July 11 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai said Sunday that Afghanistan's private militias had become the country's greatest danger -- greater than the Taliban insurgency -- and that new action was required to disarm them.
 ''We tried to do it by persuasion,'' Mr. Karzai said in an interview with The New York Times two days after he had postponed parliamentary elections by six months because of the threat of disruption. But now, he said, ''The stick has to be used, definitely.''
 Mr. Karzai did not specify what action he would undertake. But his assessment represented a new ranking of Afghanistan's problems, with attacks by Taliban supporters and slow voter registration suddenly receding, to be replaced by worries about election intimidation by warlords and militias. 
 Mr. Karzai, who has largely governed through consensus, met with Afghan and international officials later Sunday to lay out a new strategy. 
 The United Nations, NATO and the United States-led coalition are involved in Afghanistan, training the police, augmenting the army and providing security for the elections. Mr. Karzai is counting on that process to continue to improve his government's standing. 
 His leadership over two and a half years, with heavy American backing, has rested largely on accommodation with various forces, an approach he defended Sunday. But his frustration, and that of his top ministers, seemed acute. 
 Asked to rate his government on how well it had achieved its goals, Mr. Karzai offered the barely passing grade of D. He said that corruption remained rampant and that the failure of the disarmament program was a source of keen anxiety among the people. 
 Out of the 60,000 armed militiamen, only 10,000 have been disarmed and demobilized, and the program has stalled rather than accelerated in recent months. The hope now is to disarm 60 percent to 70 percent of the militias before the new parliamentary elections in April 2005, the leader of the joint election commission, Zakim Shah, said Saturday.
 Mr. Karzai said the struggle with the warlords would be decisive, suggesting that his government and society were at a turning point. 
 Asked what lessons he could offer for Iraq, he said Washington should not let private militias flourish. 
 Postponing the parliamentary elections had not been his preference, he said, but he acknowledged that Afghans wanted to see militias disarmed and sent away first.
 ''The frustration that we have in this country is that progress has sometimes been stopped by private militias, life has been threatened by private militias, so it should not be tolerated,'' he said. Without disarmament, ''the Afghan state will have really serious difficulties,'' he said.
 Mr. Karzai and important foreign officials in Afghanistan said that despite the delay in elections, the country should take pride in the independence of the new joint election commission, which delayed the parliamentary elections in the face of the cabinet's opposition. The plan had been for parliamentary and presidential elections to be held simultaneously. 
 Presidential elections, which are considered simpler to carry out, are now scheduled for Oct. 9, already a delay of four months from the original timetable. 
 Mr. Karzai is widely expected to win in a field of a dozen minor challengers. An alliance of powerful northern political leaders and warlords has thrown its support behind Mr. Karzai, making it unlikely that he will face a serious challenge. 
 Critics have accused Mr. Karzai of striking a deal with the northern leaders. On Sunday, he denied that an agreement had been reached. 
 In recent months, the big concern had been to register voters at the time of an insurgency by Taliban supporters. Yet registration is progressing, especially in rural areas, and militias are now looming as the primary threat to free and fair elections, Mr. Karzai said. ''We hear of intimidations even now,'' he said. 
 Yet the likelihood of disarmament in the next six months remains uncertain. Mr. Karzai has always tried to bring the warlords on board rather than confront them, and the tension between his deal making and his new declaration of toughness has not been resolved. 
 Despite vows to toughen his tactics, Mr. Karzai spent much of the interview explaining the need for accommodation. He would be tough on the process of disarmament, not on individuals, he said.
 Jean Arnault, the leader of the United Nations mission in Afghanistan, which is helping in the disarmament and elections, said the United Nations favored disarmament through cooperation rather than sanctions. ''Sanctions push people to find new ways to skirt the issue,'' he said Saturday in an interview.
 Mr. Karzai spoke of his most recent trip to the United States, when he visited the room in Philadelphia where the Declaration of Independence was signed, and reflected on the task of building a functioning democracy. 
 ''In Afghanistan we will have many more messy years to come, before we can claim that we have succeeded,'' he said. ''This is a country in the making, and I am very realistic about that.'' 
 ''We have succeeded in bringing new money to Afghanistan in a very strong manner. We have succeeded in stabilizing the economy,'' he said. ''But we have failed to curb corruption'' and to disarm the militias, he said.
 Nevertheless, compared with two years ago, when internal government rivalries and the assassination of his vice president forced him to accept American bodyguards who still protect him today, he said he now had a government that worked.
 ''It has changed,'' he said. ''We are a government. Two years ago we were not. Today I can decide things. Two years ago we could not.'' 
 Afghan security officials said that another serious concern for Afghanistan was foreign interference, notably but not only by Pakistan. Foreign states may be behind some of the violence that plagues Afghanistan, one security official warned this week.
 A bomb exploded Sunday morning in Herat in western Afghanistan, killing five civilians, including a 12-year-old boy, and wounding 21 others, said the police chief of Herat, Ziauddin Mahmoudi. In a statement later on Sunday, Mr. Karzai condemned the attack, saying it was ''the work of Afghanistan's enemies who are desperately trying to derail Afghanistan from the path of reconstruction, peace and democracy.''
 Senior officials in southern Afghanistan have warned that leaders of the former Taliban government are increasing their insurgency there and in the southeast, and that they are gaining popular support.
 Mr. Karzai, who will visit Pakistan this month, said he was concerned about the training in Pakistan of militants, who then cross over and carry out attacks in Afghanistan. Afghan troops recently captured a militant who said he had been trained in Pakistan, Mr. Karzai said. The government raises the issue with Pakistan ''on a daily basis,'' he said, adding that he would like for Pakistan to do more. 
 But he dismissed the Taliban threat as ''exaggerated.'' He differentiated those attacks from bombings and other acts of ''terrorism'' and ''warlordism,'' which he said were the bigger problems.
 He described relations with Afghanistan's principal neighbors, Iran and Pakistan, as cooperative, and said both had benefited from Afghanistan's recovery. ''We are thinking from a businessman's point of view. It is very businesslike. We want to make money -- and how do you make money? -- by trading with our neighbors,'' he said.
 He said if he won a new five-year term in October, he would do things ''very differently'' and not trap himself in a coalition with people who did not support change. 
 ''I will try to have as much of a professional, technocratic cabinet as possible, especially in the departments where there is the need for them,'' he said. But he acknowledged that he would still have to balance that with a policy of bringing factional leaders or warlords into the government. ''The success will come when the balance is right,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan expressed concern yesterday that private militias and warlords would try to disrupt elections. (Photo by Hiromi Yasui for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TALIBAN (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DISARMAMENT (89%); POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ETHICS (64%) Elections; Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%) Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (93%) Carlotta Gall; David Rohde; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



240 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Afghan Leader Calls Militias Biggest Threat
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan said that private armies loyal to warlords were now greater threats than the Taliban insurgency and that they were at least partly responsible for the delay in parliamentary elections. Mr. Karzai also said he was abandoning his gentle approach in trying to pressure the country's private armies to disarm. A1

Three U.S. Soldiers Killed
Three American soldiers were killed in attacks in Iraq, two by a roadside bomb near Samarra and one by a separate roadside bomb. A10

The interim Iraqi government is preparing to appoint 43 ambassadors abroad as it reopens diplomatic ties with other nations. A11

Bomb Explodes in Tel Aviv
A bomb exploded in Tel Aviv, killing an Israeli soldier. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called for Israel to respond by pressing ahead with the West Bank barrier that an international court has ruled illegal. A8

Democratic President in Serbia
Boris Tadic, a president who supports democratic reforms, took office in Serbia, heralding hopes of a new era. Delegates from more than 40 nations as well as senior representatives of the European Union and NATO attended the ceremony. A9

Japanese Party Retains Power
The governing coalition led by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi held its majority in Japan's upper house of Parliament in elections there. But voters handed the main opposition party significant gains. A3

Few Leaders for AIDS Summit
The 15th International AIDS Conference in Bangkok began on a disturbing note with the cancellation of a summit meeting of world leaders invited to discuss AIDS. Only one invitation was accepted. A8

NATIONAL A12-17

Railroads Fail to Report Hundreds of Accidents
Railroads fail to properly notify federal officials about hundreds of crossing accidents and fatalities, according to an investigation by The New York Times. Norman Feaster thinks his daughter may not have died if CSX had complied with federal notification rules. A1

Bush Urges Gay Marriage Ban
President Bush is escalating his support for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, moving the issue to the forefront under pressure from conservatives. A16

Conservatives Feel Shunned
Some prominent conservatives say they are upset at the apparent exclusion of the champions of their favorite issues from the limelight of the Republican convention in favor of more moderate members. A16

Deal Threatens Cheap Drugs
Congress is poised to approve an international trade agreement that could thwart a goal pursued by many lawmakers of both parties: the import of inexpensive prescription drugs to help millions of Americans without health insurance. A1

9/11 Panel To Dismiss Alliance
The commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks is nearing completion of a final report that will largely dismiss White House theories both about a close working relationship between Iraq and Al Qaeda and about possible Iraqi involvement in Sept. 11. A12

Sheriff Hands Over Jail
The sheriff in charge of the Fulton County Jail in Atlanta told a federal judge that she thought bringing in a third party to oversee the jail would be a ''positive step.'' A12

Kerry Defends Wealth
Senator John Kerry and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, said that it was hypocritical for Republicans to raise questions about their wealth and that of Senator John Edwards. Mr. Kerry called criticism of the candidates' multimillion-dollar bank accounts ''the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard in my life.'' A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Clear Channel Accused Of Blocking Antiwar Ad
An antiwar group is accusing Clear Channel Communications, which has close ties to national Republicans, of preventing the group from displaying a billboard with a bomb opposing the war in Iraq. In dispute is whether Clear Channel approved a second version of the billboard, which replaced the bomb with a dove. B1

Trade Center's Vestiges
Workers are installing bundles of steel cable to anchor the foundation wall of an underground parking garage, the last major structural vestige of the old World Trade Center. This will allow the demolition of the garage to make way for the Freedom Tower. B1

Deal to Avoid Strike
Actors' Equity, which has threatened to strike Broadway theaters over stalled contract talks, has reached a deal with a major musical, ''The Boy From Oz,'' to avoid any work stoppage. B1

5 Die in 3 Plane Crashes
Three small airplanes fell from the sky in unrelated accidents over the weekend, killing five people, officials said. B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-6

Montgomery Fails to Qualify
Tim Montgomery, the reigning world record holder who has been charged with a doping offense by the Anti-Doping Agency, failed to make the 100 meters team for the Olympics when he finished seventh in the United States trials. D1

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES B7-8

Laurance Rockefeller
The middle brother of the five prominent and philanthropic grandsons of John D. Rockefeller, he was 94. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Economy Slow to Recover
A patchwork of unexpectedly soft economic reports is raising doubts about the vigor of the economic recovery, although most economists remain confident that economic growth is not collapsing but is shifting to a more sustainable rate. C1

Nextel Attracts Business
Nextel Communications, the sixth-largest cellphone carrier, has become a target for attack, having captured a significant piece of the lucrative corporate market, thanks largely to the push-to-talk service its rivals once derided. C1

Telemundo as Crucial Asset
The chairman of NBC Universal considers Telemundo Communications Group, which NBC acquired in 2001 for $2.7 billion and is now pumping tens of millions of dollars into each year, the company's most important asset. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Signs of energy; Mexico's Evita; Mr. Cheney's troubled doctor; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the garden.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D8
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E6
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather A13


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); RAIL CROSSINGS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (64%); APPROVALS (63%); MARRIAGE (61%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



241 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Lifeline for a Mighty River
Iraqis use the Tigris River for bathing and water even though it has become smelly and refuse-strewn. But, despite being shot at and other risks, Iraqi engineers and an American environmental advocate are trying to restore it to some semblance of its former splendor. PAGE A11

Big Winner, Big Loser
Maurice Greene won the 100 meter final at the U.S. Olympic trials to move on to the Athens Games, but Tim Montgomery, the world-record holder, competing under the cloud of a doping scandal, failed to advance. SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE D1
 As a member of the New York Stock Exchange, he often used his instinct for identifying the next big thing. Not content simply to make more money, he wanted it to produce something of lasting value. A family spokesman said Mr. Rockefeller, who was in declining health, was at work as recently as Wednesday, where he joked with his staff that he was putting in only half a day. PAGE B7

9/11 Panel Is Said to Be Firm on Iraq-Qaeda Alliance
The final report of the commission investigating the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks is expected to stand by an earlier staff report that found no close working relationship between Iraq and Al Qaeda. Members said it would call for an overhaul of the nation's counterterrorism efforts. PAGE A12

Times Sq. Billboard Dispute
Antiwar activists are accusing Clear Channel Communications, a company with Republican ties, of blocking a billboard critical of Iraq that shows a bomb. PAGE B1

Leaders Skip AIDS Talks
A meeting of nine world leaders at the International AIDS Conference in Thailand was canceled after just one of them -- the president of Uganda -- accepted an invitation to attend. PAGE A8

Hiccups in Economic Growth
Soft economic reports are raising doubts about the vigor of the recovery in the United States. Still, most economists remain confident that growth is just shifting to a lower rate. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1


Laurance Rockefeller, 94, Philanthropist, Dies
The middle brother of the five prominent and philanthropic grandsons of John D. Rockefeller, he concentrated his generosity on conservation, recreation, ecological concerns and medical research, particularly the treatment of cancer. His career began almost 70 years ago on Wall Street, where he became a trailblazer of modern venture capitalism, compounding his inherited wealth many times over.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); AL-QAEDA (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); ONCOLOGY (60%); CANCER (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (55%); SCANDALS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (79%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



242 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 3302 words

PERSON: Laurance Spelman Rockefeller

HEADLINE: Laurance S. Rockefeller, Passionate Conservationist And Investor, Is Dead at 94

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Laurance S. Rockefeller, the middle brother of the five prominent and philanthropic grandsons of John D. Rockefeller, who concentrated his own particular generosity on conservation, recreation, ecological concerns and medical research, particularly the treatment of cancer, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94.
 The cause of death was pulmonary fibrosis, according to a family spokesman, Fraser P. Seitel. Mr. Seitel said that as recently as Wednesday, Mr. Rockefeller, whose health had declined in the last several months, had gone to work at his offices at Rockefeller Center, where he joked with the staff that he was putting in only half a day. 
 Mr. Rockefeller's career began on Wall Street almost 70 years ago, and he became a trailblazer of modern venture capitalism, compounding his inherited wealth many times over. In the decades since he first took his seat on the New York Stock Exchange, he often used his native instinct for identifying the next big thing. He was not content with simply making more money but wanted to make the money produce something of lasting value. 
 In the late 1930's, he provided much of the capital to help Capt. Eddie Rickenbacker, the World War I fighter pilot, start Eastern Airlines and was for many years the airline's largest stockholder. He invested -- personally or through a family partnership he established -- in hundreds of start-ups, initially in aviation and electronics and later branching out to computers (Intel and Apple) and biotechnology. His gifts of land, from Wyoming to the Virgin Islands, amounted to hundreds of thousands of acres, including a prominent New York vista that contained a vast unspoiled tract along the west bank of the lower Hudson River: Tallman Mountain State Park.
 Less gregarious than his older brother Nelson, the four-term governor of New York and the vice president under Gerald R. Ford, Laurance Spelman Rockefeller was also more reserved and private than his flamboyant younger brother Winthrop, who was governor of Arkansas. A philosophy major at Princeton, he long wrestled with the question of how he might most efficiently and satisfyingly use the great wealth into which he was born.
 In the process, he shaped a life that was also distinct from that of his oldest brother, John D. 3rd, who devoted himself to maintaining the charitable efforts established by his father and grandfather, and of his youngest brother, the scholarly David, who headed the Chase bank and was deeply involved in issues of international finance and politics.
 David Rockefeller, who is the last surviving grandchild of John D. Rockfeller, said yesterday of Laurance, ''His inspiration and wisdom will be missed by every generation of the Rockefeller family and most especially by me.''
 In his 1997 biography ''Laurance S. Rockefeller, Catalyst for Conservation,'' Robin Winks said that more than 200 books had been published about the Rockefeller family. He wrote that ''one may read all these books, some friendly, some angry, to discover that there is one Rockefeller who is barely present in most of them. This is Laurance, who moves in and out for a page or so and is then gone, neglected by an author who sometimes is in search of scandal or the stuff of headlines, or whose interests are in politics, high finance, or international affairs.
 ''As a result, most of these books have neglected the Rockefeller who, in the tradition of grandfather and father, arguably has moved and shaken to the most long-range purpose -- the preservation of the nation's natural heritage, of great historic landscapes.'' 
 Using significant amounts of his money, as well as his connections, prestige and negotiating skills, Mr. Rockefeller was instrumental in establishing and enlarging national parks in Wyoming, California, the Virgin Islands, Vermont, Maine and Hawaii. In his home state, New York, he expended further cash and influence to help establish parklands and urban open spaces.
 In addition, there were projects he thwarted, including the encroachment of high-rise developments along the Palisades north of the George Washington Bridge. There, as an active member of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission, he helped create a chain of parks that blocked the advance of sprawl and maintained the majestic view that he first saw as a child looking out from Kykuit, the Rockefeller country home in Pocantico Hills, in Westchester County.
 Mr. Rockefeller served on dozens of federal, state and local commissions and advised every president since Eisenhower on issues involving recreation, wilderness preservation and ecology. He founded the American Conservation Association and supported scores of other environmental groups. 
 In 1991, awarded the Congressional Gold Medal and extolled by President George H.W. Bush as a ''hidden national treasure.'' Mr. Rockefeller said that that nothing was more important to him than ''the creation of a conservation ethic in America,'' and then he sternly admonished the politicians in the room to do more to protect the country's land, water and air. 
 His interest in nature and preservation extended to commercial ventures. As the founder of RockResorts, he helped design and build hotels in imposing natural settings from the Caribbean to Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Hawaii, always emphasizing close access to nature. These environmentally focused hotels, built between 1955 and 1969, contributed to the growth of what has since become known as eco-tourism. 
 An unabashed apostle for the restorative powers of nature in an age of anxiety and complexity, Mr. Rockefeller revealed an unusual mix of ingenuousness and perhaps chutzpah when he wrote an article for Reader's Digest in 1976 called, ''The Case for a Simpler Life.''
 The author, who owned paintings by Bonnard and Gainsborough, many large houses, a plane, a Bentley among other cars and a 65-foot speedboat, cited his family's view that waste was always sinful. ''The concept that we have boundless resources of materials, manpower and spirit and therefore can waste, clearly no longer is true,'' he wrote. ''Individually, people are finding that a simpler lifestyle provides greater satisfaction than relentless pursuit of materialism.'' He wrote that in his case, ''chopping and splitting firewood'' brought him spiritual and mental relaxation along with exercise.

A Love of Nature
 Mr. Rockefeller's commitment to wilderness, recreation and environmental conservation had many roots. Since childhood, he liked to ride horses through unspoiled terrain. He was a passionate photographer who sought out new landscapes.
 As a young man, he traveled to national parks in the West. In Yellowstone, he met and formed a lifetime friendship with Horace M. Albright, the park superintendent who would become a driving force in the conservation movement and was one of Mr. Rockefeller's two acknowledged mentors. 
 The second of these was Fairfield Osborn, a man who retired young from Wall Street to lead the New York Zoological Society and who sounded the alarm of ecological threat in a book called ''Our Plundered Planet.'' Mr. Rockefeller referred to him affectionately as ''a rogue elephant'' railing against despoilers of the environment. In 1972 he wrote an article about Mr. Osborn for Reader's Digest that ran under the rubric of the magazine's regular series, ''My Most Unforgettable Character.'' 
 Even before Mr. Rockefeller reached adulthood, his family had included parks among their many philanthropic projects. John D. Rockefeller Jr. had donated some of his land on Mount Desert Island in Maine to help create Acadia, the first national park east of the Mississippi River, in 1919, and 10 years later he donated much larger tracts in Wyoming to help establish Grand Teton National Park. But even these projects were overshadowed by many of the family's better-known endeavors in education, race relations, religion and science.
 As a young man, Mr. Rockefeller became steadily aware that the philanthropy of his generation would require greater specialization than the eclectic approaches at of his immediate ancestors. ''My grandfather gave like a forward pass,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1966. ''He threw the ball out, and it was up to the others to make a go of it.'' Then referring to himself and his brothers, he added, ''We feel you must give with the heart as well as the head. There must be a deep personal commitment along with an intellectual understanding of the project.''

Wealth and Responsibility
 Laurance Spelman Rockefeller was born on May 26, 1910, at a time when the health of his grandmother Laura Celestia Spelman Rockefeller, known as Cettie, was beginning to fail. It was to honor her that the boy's name was spelled unusually, with two a's. As Mr. Rockefeller grew older, he came to resemble his grandfather more closely than any other family member, having the same pursed and seemingly dour expression that John D. Rockefeller often showed in photographs.
 According to family accounts, he also was the one who most closely showed his grandfather's flair for profitable deals. The three generations lived together in New York City and at Kykuit. 
 It was by all accounts an unusual childhood.
 As a boy, Mr. Rockefeller was a tinkerer, or as he later called himself, a gadgeteer. He built and rode a wooden car that he attached to a small motor. He was closest to Nelson, who was two years older, and the two called each other by the names they preferred, Nelson answering to ''Dick'' and Laurance to ''Bill.'' At one point, the two started raising rabbits, which they sold to scientific laboratories. Along with their brothers, they were paid for chores like cleaning shoes. The compensation for swatting flies was 10 cents for 100 flies.
 Their school was an experimental and progressive academy called the Lincoln School in Morningside Heights. It was founded by John Dewey and devoted to a methodology of learning by doing. Hobbies like Mr. Rockefeller's interest in photography were encouraged, as were travel and exploration. Disciplines like spelling were less stressed. Laurance and Nelson would often start off for school on roller skates with a chauffeur following behind, ready to drive them on the last leg of their journey. 
 Mr. Rockefeller, his brothers, and their sister Abby, the oldest child of John D. Rockefeller Jr., grew up in what was almost certainly the richest family in America, yet frugality was a part of their upbringing. Their father regularly reviewed the accounting books where his sons kept track of their expenditures, just as his own father had done. John D. Jr. offered his sons gifts of $2,500 if they would not smoke before they turned 21. Only David and Nelson could claim the prize.
 In building Kykuit, the family had spent more money on shaping the grounds than on the house, which had no ballroom or bar, since the elder Rockefellers disparaged dancing and alcohol. Though Laurance was raised amid advantages and luxury, he also was exposed to values like asceticism and economy, which emanated largely from the family's Baptist beliefs. 
 After entering Princeton in 1929, Mr. Rockefeller began challenging some of these religious convictions. He said he felt as if he had ''always lived with a Bible in one hand,'' and he became a philosophy major in order to determine whether faith or reason offered the best ways of identifying and obtaining what was good.
 In the throes of his quest, while taking every philosophy course Princeton offered, he wrote to his father, ''I am of the opinion that the appreciation and the desire for what is good takes more study and insight than does the understanding and test for the best music and art.''

A Knack for Business
 After Princeton, Mr. Rockefeller went to Harvard Law School, but after two years he realized he did not want to be a lawyer. In 1934, he married Mary French, the sister of Nelson's roommate at Dartmouth and the granddaughter of Frederick Billings, a president of the Northern Pacific Railroad. 
 The couple had three daughters and a son, all of whom survive. They are Laura R. Chasin of Cambridge, Mass.; Marion R. Weber of Stinson Beach, Calif.; Dr. Lucy R. Waletzky of Pleasantville, N.Y.; and Larry Rockefeller of New York City. Mr. Rockefeller is also survived by his brother David, eight grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren. His wife died in 1997. 
 Around the time of his marriage, Mr. Rockefeller turned to business. When his grandfather died in 1937, he inherited his grandfather's seat on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 But instead of accumulating blue-chip holdings, he began investing in embryonic undertakings. One of his first such efforts happened when he and his bride, while furnishing their first home, were shown photographs of curved wooden furniture designed by Alvar Aalto, a Finnish architect. The couple ordered a number of pieces for themselves, but Mr. Rockefeller ordered many more, believing that Aalto's work would attract buyers seeking good modern design that was also affordable. Ignoring furniture experts who warned him against it, he opened a store on 53rd Street to sell the Finnish furniture. 
 A second venture was to have much greater consequences. Mr. Rockefeller had become friendly with Captain Rickenbacker, who had triumphed in many dogfights over Europe. Mr. Rockefeller had himself learned to fly, and he found Captain Rickenbacker's visionary accounts of an approaching boom in commercial air travel to be persuasive. Within a decade after Mr. Rockefeller's considerable investment, Eastern Airlines had become the most profitable airline to emerge after World War II. 
 During the war, Mr. Rockefeller served as a Navy procurement officer. But afterward, he resumed searching for start-up opportunities. In 1959, an article in The Wall Street Journal noted that Mr. Rockefeller has ''no thought of abandoning his 20-year-old policy of using his wealth as 'venture capital' on untried new enterprises,'' the quotation marks around the words venture capital suggesting that the term was still novel. 
 The Journal article reported that since the end of the war, Mr. Rockefeller had invested about $8,750,000 in some two dozen companies and that by the end of 1958 these investments had grown to be worth more than $28 million. 
 As Mr. Rockefeller kept identifying ground-floor investment opportunities, his brothers and his sister would from time to time join in particular investments. In 1969, he formalized these activities by establishing Venrock Associates, an investment company that was a limited partnership financed by members of the Rockefeller family and a number of the institutions with which the family had longstanding philanthropic ties, among them the Museum of Modern Art, Rockefeller University and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. 
 By 1996, Venrock had financed 221 initiatives in the early stages of their development, amassing an impressive performance record. After Mr. Rockefeller's early concentration on aviation, he branched out into electronics, computers and biotechnology, providing capital early on to companies like Intel and Apple long before they became widely known and highly valued. 
 According to Mr. Winks, the biographer, Mr. Rockefeller, through his investments, ''increased his personal fortune many times over.''

Protecting the Environment
 Though his business pursuits were hardly devoid of passion, it was his desire to simultaneously protect the wonders of nature while providing greater access to them that aroused his greatest enthusiasm. In 1939, he was first named a member of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission, and in 1942 he made his first gift of land, providing the tract that is now Tallman Mountain State Park. In 1949, Mr. Rockefeller signed over more than 30,000 acres that his father had assembled at Jackson Hole to the federal government. Within five years, he had built three lodges offering visitors comfortable accommodations abutting Grand Teton National Park. In 1960 he became vice chairman of the New York State Council of Parks under Robert Moses. 
 In 1952, while cruising in the Caribbean with his wife, he put in at Caneel Bay, a cove fringed with frangipani, bougainvillea and monkey-no-climb trees on St. John, the smallest and most unspoiled of the United States Virgin Islands. Over the next four years he assembled an area of 50,000 acres that he turned over to the National Park Service as Virgin Islands National Park.
 From 1958 to 1962, he served as chairman of the Outdoor Recreation Review Commission that President Eisenhower appointed to study the country's recreation needs. Many of the reports recommendations for the designation of new parks and the expansion of old ones were enacted, particularly during the Johnson administration.
 As the middle son, Mr. Rockefeller had long experience in promoting compromise. David Rockefeller has described in his memoirs how Laurance repeatedly sought to ease tensions between David and Nelson as they squabbled over who should be chairman of Rockefeller Brothers and what should be done with the family estate in Pocantico Hills. In public policy disputes, Mr. Rockefeller's also often took up the role of mediator. 
 In the mid-1960's, President Lyndon B. Johnson asked Mr. Rockefeller to push forward a long-stalled plan for a Redwood National Park in California that had first been suggested in 1917. Naturalists led by the Sierra Club were insisting that the envisioned park be mapped to include the largest possible area of giant trees, while the lumber companies and state politicians countered with proposal of much smaller acreage. 
 Mr. Rockefeller engineered a compromise with the State of California that failed to please many. Instead of the 77,000 acres that the Sierra Club had sought, the national park that was established in 1968 contained 58,000 acres. It was the costliest park in the system's history, with $1.5 billion spent on land alone and hundreds of millions more going to displaced lumbermen. Yet in time, the recognition grew that if not for Mr. Rockefeller's compromise there would have been no park at all.
 Another controversy concerned Mr. Rockefeller's effort to have New York's huge Adirondack Park, the largest state park in the country, be put under federal control as a national park. Starting in 1961, Mr. Rockefeller commissioned a series of studies that suggested that turning the park, which is the size of Vermont, over to the National Park Service would be the most effective way to reverse commercial incursions by timber companies and others, since federal regulations on land use were more stringent than those of the state.
 The opposition of local residents and politicians ultimately swamped the idea, but Mr. Rockefeller's continued emphasis on the park's importance has been credited with reversing years of neglect, deterioration and exploitation as the state government asserted greater control.
 It was at Caneel Bay that Mr. Rockefeller opened the first of his RockResorts in 1956, seeking to test his belief that there could be an alliance between commerce and conservation. In designing the place, he determined that his guests were to swim, snorkel, sleep, eat well but not luxuriously and take nature walks, There would be no telephones, no air conditioning and no tipping.
 Mr. Rockefeller relaxed some of these restrictions as he built and operated other resorts, among them the Dorado Beach Hotel in Puerto Rico, Little Dix Bay in the British Virgin Islands and the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel in Hawaii. In 1985 he divested himself of the RockResorts, adhering to the investment principles he outlined when he set up Venrock: ''Get in on the ground floor, stay with the enterprise until it reaches maturity, then get out and move to something else.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the philanthropist and conservationist Laurance S. Rockefeller on July 12 misstated the size of the property he donated for the creation of Virgin Islands National Park, on St. John. It was 5,000 acres, not 50,000.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rockefeller brothers at a dinner in 1967. From left are David, president of the Chase Manhattan Bank
Winthrop, governor of Arkansas
John D. 3rd, chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation
Nelson, governor of New York
and Laurance, conservationist. (Photo by Associated Press)
Laurance Rockefeller in 2001, when he donated his 1,106-acre ranch to Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming. (Photo by Associated Press)
 The United States Virgin Islands was among the locations where Laurance Rockefeller donated land and developed resorts like this one, called Caneel Bay. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); DEATHS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); CHARITIES (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ONCOLOGY (77%); CANCER (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); GOVERNORS (55%); WORLD WAR I (51%) Deaths (Obituaries)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

JAY ROCKEFELLER (92%) Rockefeller Family; Michael T Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (68%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



243 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: China Trades Its Way to Power

BYLINE: By Jason T. Shaplen and James Laney. 
Jason T. Shaplen was policy adviser at the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization from 1995 to 1999. James Laney was the ambassador to South Korea from 1993 to 1997.

 BODY:
North Korea was high on the agenda for the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, during her trip to China, South Korea and Japan last week. But while the North's nuclear weapons program presents a difficult test, it masks a broader and far greater challenge for the Bush administration, one with significant implications for the United States, the region and the world.
 At its heart, the challenge reflects China's emergence as a power broker in the region. The Bush administration can couch Beijing's new role in whatever politically advantageous language it wishes, but, ultimately, it comes down to this: China's influence is rapidly rising and America's is rapidly declining. While this realization may be unpleasant for Washington, the sooner administration officials accept this reality the faster they can deal with it. Unfortunately, they have virtually ignored East Asia, preoccupied as they are with Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 Trade numbers help explain the transformation in Asia. Within six years, China's economy will be double that of Germany's, now the world's third largest. By 2020, it is expected to surpass Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Japan already imports more from China than it does from the United States. And China has become the largest trading partner of South Korea, the world's 12th-largest economy. Clearly, the juggernaut has already begun.
 Why are these statistics important? Because while Mao once claimed that power grows out of the barrel of a gun, today's leaders in China know it also grows from trade. Tokyo and Seoul know this, too. Aware that China is now vital to their economic well-being, they are no longer as willing as they once were to position themselves opposite Beijing, even if this means going against Washington. Put another way, while the Bush administration still thinks of the United States as the sole superpower in a unipolar world, Tokyo and Seoul do not share this view. To them, the United States and China are both powers to be reckoned with in a bipolar Asia. 
 Proof of this fundamental transformation can be found in Beijing's rapid rise as a critical player in resolving the North Korean nuclear crisis. Less than five years ago, it would have been inconceivable to think that South Korea or Japan would leave Washington's side on a significant security issue. Today, in large part because of trade with China, both have done just that, publicly adopting pro-engagement policies that Washington rejected. Tokyo has even gone so far as to talk about normalizing relations with Pyongyang next year, while Seoul has increased trade and military-to-military contacts.
 Left standing by itself is the United States, wondering how to cope with its diminished status in a region that it has dominated for almost 60 years. (Aware that it has no means to enforce its hard-line policy towards the North without the backing of its allies, the Bush administration last month beat a hasty retreat, offering greater engagement in the latest round of six-party talks. Sadly, it may be too late.)
 China's economic ascent has brought with it geopolitical influence, which has been significantly enhanced by Washington's inexplicable passivity. Spin out this reality a little further and you get the corollary: China's newfound political power and economic might mean that it is no longer so costly for South Korea and Japan to leave the side of the United States. We've already seen this happen with North Korea. We should expect it again. America's influence will only decline further as India's economy grows to the point where it passes that of Japan and China.
 How should the United States react? Curiously, North Korea, the Bush administration's bete noire, could be of help, by serving as the catalyst for a yet-to-be-formed regional security organization. A northeast Asia security forum would initially consist of the players involved in resolving the North Korea crisis, including the United States, China, Japan, Russia and South Korea. Over time other countries -- including perhaps even North Korea -- could also join. 
 The forum would deal with security-related issues, including arms control, crisis management, conflict prevention, conflict resolution and confidence-building measures. Its focus on northeast Asia would allow it to address issues that the broader Asean Regional Forum has been unable to tackle. Most important, if structured properly, it could allow the United States to reassert its leadership (provided it listens to other members), mitigating China's influence. Fortunately, Beijing, which once despised multilateral organizations, has recently begun to embrace them. 
 The foundation for this new organization may be close at hand. The six-party talks on North Korea are moving in the direction of a security guarantee in exchange for the North agreeing to abandon its nuclear ambitions. In addition to resolving the nuclear issue, a written guarantee signed by Beijing, Tokyo, Moscow, Seoul and Washington would formally pull together a group that might eventually evolve into the security forum. 
 After decades of passivity, the nations of northeast Asia are once again coming into their own. Nations with fiercely nationalistic histories, they are tired of taking direction, or worse yet, dictation from the United States. If we do not recognize this reality and embrace a regional forum that ties together the interests of the area's major players, we could force our allies to choose between placing their interests with us or closer to home. That would not be to our advantage in a region that has been home to almost 100,000 United States troops and that has three of the world's 12 largest economies.
 As a nation, the United States would be well positioned for several years to serve as a counterbalance to the historic rivalries among these Asian countries. But we should not take these tensions as a sign that these countries will never work together. While the outcome of a choice between joining with us or working together might not seem in jeopardy today, the future -- as our failure to win their support for our policy on North Korea recently demonstrated -- might well be very different. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (59%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) Jason T Shaplen; James Laney

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China; South Korea; Japan; Russia; North Korea; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



244 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Moved by Homeland's Political Strife, Venezuelans Sign Up to Vote

BYLINE: By MARY SPICUZZA

 BODY:
The line stretched around the small room and into the hallway, but nobody seemed to be complaining. Not the couple who flew in from Vermont, not the Philadelphia-based construction manager or the mother and son who had driven three hours from Pennsylvania. 
 Some were excited, others nervous. All were rushing to fill out their voter registration forms at the Consulate General of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela on East 51st Street in Manhattan before it was too late. Venezuelans who had not registered by Saturday afternoon will have lost their chance to participate in one of their country's most heated votes, the Aug. 15 referendum that will decide whether President Hugo Chavez, a radical left-wing politician who has been accused of corruption and electoral fraud, will be ousted. 
 ''We're taking time off work, but it's an investment in the country,'' said Jose Fernandez, 41, who traveled from Burlington, Vt., with his wife, Astrid. ''We're here to defend democracy.''
 Mr. Fernandez is one of hundreds of Venezuelans who have recently registered to vote at their country's small consulate in Manhattan. Before the nation's latest round of civil unrest began in 2002, only 750 people had registered, according to the consul's office. By midweek, 2,200 had registered. 
 Those registering were a mix of young and old, ranging from political activists to first-time voters. Some moved recently from Venezuela, while others have been living in the United States for decades. Whether they had traveled from Queens or Colorado, they all shared a passion for politics back home.
 ''I have never voted, to be honest,'' said Carla Fuquene, 27. ''I wasn't interested in politics before. But I go back every year, and the change is scary. The president is destroying the country.''
 Ms. Fuquene, a Brooklyn resident who left Caracas seven years ago, said she was shocked by the crime and poverty she witnessed on her last visit. She said her grandmother was recently mugged, and has since moved to the United States.
 President Chavez has for years inspired a mixture of fanatical support and hatred. Mr. Chavez, who helped stage an unsuccessful coup in 1992, has earned many enemies with his radical politics and policies, which some call dictatorial. After campaigning on an anticorruption platform, he took office in 1999, but was later charged with electoral fraud stemming from a 2000 election.
 Venezuelans have since witnessed a faltering economy, strikes, demonstrations and violence. Unemployment rose to about 20 percent in 2003, according to official statistics, but some say the true number is much higher. 
 Rene Rios, a member of Social Artistry Venezuela, an organization devoted to democracy and human rights in the country, said many people were now leaving his homeland and coming to the United States, especially to New York, New Jersey, Florida and Texas.
 ''People are fleeing the country like refugees,'' said Mr. Rios, 45. ''Chavez got into power in 1999, and now a bunch of people are trying to get away from him.''
 The number of Venezuelans living in New York and New Jersey increased to about 13,500 in 2000 from about 8,500 in 1990, according to census figures. But Venezuelans in New York say the number has risen significantly since Mr. Chavez took power.
 Mr. Rios's group has been involved in the referendum for months. He has been working with the Venezuelan expatriates Manuel Kohn and Hector Contreras to plan rallies, gather referendum signatures and provide information about next month's vote.
 Maribel Araujo, who runs Caracas Arepa Bar on Seventh Street in the East Village, said she thought the number of Venezuelans had grown by about ''5,000 times'' since she moved to New York three years ago. She said many of them were talking about the referendum.
 Ms. Araujo, 28, said she tries to avoid bringing politics to her restaurant, but she hopes something good comes from all of the violence. 
 ''The people are really starting to be conscious,'' she said. ''We are trying to get back to a 100 percent democracy. There is no way to have a semi-democracy or a semi-dictatorship in 2004.''
 Some said the Venezuelan government was doing a good job of handling the referendum in a diplomatic way.
 ''Some people are saying the government is blocking democracy. There's a lot of misinformation out there,'' said Manolo Rangel as he left the consulate after registering. ''It is important they can see that the doors of the consulate are open.''
 Others said the consulates in the United States should be providing clear information about the upcoming vote. For example, they questioned whether those living in the United States illegally would be reported to authorities, or whether the votes of Venezuelans without green cards would be counted.
 An official at the consulate said that anyone with a Venezuelan identity card was allowed to register. The Venezuelan national elections council has not yet decided whether the votes of nonresidents will be counted, according to the consulate's office.
 Ilich Oviedo said he would be relieved when the referendum is over. Mr. Oviedo, 25, said he hated the way Mr. Chavez has divided the country, adding that he knew many people who had been killed in political violence.
 ''The people, they need some change,'' he said. ''They can't govern this way. If we don't find a way to change, everything is lost.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: To vote this August, Astrid and Jose Fernandez of Burlington, Vt., foreground, completed registration forms at the Venezuelan Consulate. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); ELECTION FRAUD (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); COUPS (73%); LIBERALISM (69%); RIOTS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); STATISTICS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Elections; Referendums; Politics and Government; Venezuelan-Americans

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) Mary Spicuzza; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) VERMONT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



245 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SAME-SEX MARRIAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Urged by Right, Bush Takes On Gay Marriages

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11 

 BODY:
Two weeks before the Democratic convention and under pressure from conservatives, President Bush is escalating his support for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, moving the issue to the forefront of the campaign and underscoring what his aides said was a critical difference between the president and Senator John Kerry.
 Mr. Bush championed the amendment in his radio address this weekend as fellow Republicans in the Senate said they would seek to force a vote on it on Wednesday. Mr. Kerry and Senator John Edwards, the likely Democratic nominees for president and vice president, responded by saying they would come to Washington to vote against the amendment, even though it appears unlikely their votes will be needed to defeat it. 
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards say that they oppose gay marriage but that the matter should be left to the states. In opposing the president, aides said, they will argue that Mr. Bush is trying to subvert the Constitution for political ends.
 Mr. Bush's renewed advocacy of the amendment -- also voiced in a campaign appearance on Friday -- came as the White House appeared to be struggling to reconcile conflicting pressure from conservatives eager for Mr. Bush to champion the ban and some Republicans concerned that the issue could alienate undecided moderate voters. 
 In interviews, conservative leaders said they had complained to the White House that the campaign was blocking opponents of gay marriage from prime-time speaking slots at the Republican National Convention.
 ''The Republicans have got some explaining to do,'' said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian lobbying group, noting that several of the speakers at the convention have come out against the amendment. ''Social conservatives are not happy.''
 Mr. Bush's conservative base clearly supports the amendment, but polls have shown that while a majority of undecided voters oppose gay marriage, there is little enthusiasm among them for amending the Constitution to ban it. 
 Some analysts suggested that might account for the tentativeness with which the White House has approached this issue this year, as it seeks to turn out the evangelical voters that advisers have described as critical to Mr. Bush's re-election without alienating the undecided voters who are the central focus of both campaigns.
 ''Our analysis of the swing voters shows that they are concerned about Iraq and about the economy, and I don't think they are likely to be swayed, or have strong feelings about a constitutional amendment,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. ''If anything, they may see it as putting the emphasis on the wrong place when the country has other problems.''
 As recently as the spring, Democrats and Republicans predicted that the subject was so sensitive that both candidates would avoid engaging it at all costs. Since announcing his support for an amendment in late February, Mr. Bush has raised the issue from time to time but for the most part has not promoted his views on it. 
 First in a campaign appearance on Friday and then in his radio address on Saturday, Mr. Bush urged the Senate to pass the amendment, saying, ''The union of a man and woman in marriage is the most enduring and important human institution.'' 
 Mr. Bush's remarks on gay marriage came as his campaign began an effort to portray Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards as being out of step with voters on values. Mr. Bush's advisers said that the timing of this phase of the Bush campaign and the vote in the Senate was coincidental, and was not intended to force Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry to cast a vote that they might have wanted to avoid.
 Still, several Bush aides said they welcomed the image of Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards walking onto the Senate floor to vote against the amendment. They predicted that Mr. Kerry would have a hard time convincing the public that he opposed gay marriage and that his vote was simply a matter of protecting the Constitution.
 ''The political side of the gay marriage conversation is once again, John Kerry says something and his words are just empty,'' said Nicolle Devenish, the communications director for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. ''He says he thinks marriage is between men and women, but he has never backed a policy to make that so. He has never once supported a policy to make it law.''
 Ms. Devenish noted that Mr. Kerry had voted against the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996, which President Clinton signed. The act defines marriage as being between a man and a woman and allows states to refuse to recognize same-sex unions performed in other states. Mr. Kerry's aides said the fact that Mr. Bush felt compelled to raise the issue the summer before the election would be viewed by voters as an entirely political gesture.
 ''There's a difference between being against gay marriage and being for a federal constitutional amendment on the issue,'' said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's communications director. ''I think most people are going to see that as absolutely over the line and egregious. You don't amend the Constitution to roll back rights.''
 Mr. Bush's associates said the campaign -- remembering the damage Mr. Bush's father suffered in 1992 after a convention that featured speakers denouncing gay rights and abortion rights -- was concerned about letting Mr. Bush become too closely identified with this effort or come across as harsh on the issue.
 Indeed, in his radio address, Mr. Bush framed his call for an amendment as being in response to a decision by a state court in Massachusetts, Mr. Kerry's home state, that forced the state Legislature to recognize same-sex marriages. And Mr. Bush's advisers, in discussing the president's remarks, said the president was seeking to come across as opposing gay marriage but not as anti-gay.
 Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, said there was a danger in advocating the amendment ''if you are perceived as overreaching,'' but he said that Mr. Bush had not done that.
 ''I always got the sense that he felt like he was being put in the position of having to do this because people were aggressively trying to push gay marriage, and this was a last resort rather than a first choice,'' Mr. Goeas said.
 Some conservative leaders have been urging the president for months to speak out more forcefully on the subject of same-sex marriage, warning that his time was running out. 
 ''Bush may think he's being high-minded by not citing gay marriage and other social and cultural issues,'' Fred Barnes, the editor of the conservative Weekly Standard, wrote in May. ''But he's not, and the longer he waits to talk about them, the more he risks looking desperate or cynical when he finally does.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, shown speaking Friday at a campaign stop in Lancaster, Pa., says the issue of same-sex marriage should be settled with an amendment to the Constitution rather than through the courts. (Photo by Reuters)
 The conservative leader Tony Perkins, left, in Boston in February, has complained that some speakers who favor an amendment barring gay marriage have been denied prime slots at the Republican convention. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (93%); CONSERVATISM (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LOBBYING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); RELIGION (64%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Constitutional Amendments; Conservatism (US Politics); Marriages; Conventions, National (US); Marriages

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Adam Nagourney; David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



246 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: O'Neal and Bryant Don't Know Own Strength

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

 BODY:
THE more I hear about Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal, the more I think of John Carlos and Tommie Smith.
 In 1968, Smith and Carlos were two of the world's best sprinters. At the Mexico City Olympics, Smith set a world record in the 200 meters, Peter Norman of New Zealand won the silver medal and Carlos won the bronze. But the upset took place on the victory stand when Carlos put a black glove on his left fist and Smith put one on his right. They pulled off their shoes and stood on the stand in black socks. As the national anthem was played and the American flag was raised, the two thrust their fists skyward and bowed their heads. 
 The black socks symbolized the economic and social disenfranchisement of so many blacks in the United States, Smith once said. And the gloves symbolized the unity, mounting anger, frustration and fury of so many African-Americans, impoverished, brutalized and marginalized in the world's greatest democracy.
 Thirty-six years later, two highly acclaimed teammates -- Shaq and Kobe -- have been pushed apart by ego-tripping, bruised feelings and manipulation by a Los Angeles Lakers organization that, for some reason, feels that it will benefit by pushing these two giants apart. 
 This is a silly public feud rooted solely in ego: Who is more important to the Lakers and who is to blame for its demise, the 32-year-old O'Neal or the 25-year-old Bryant? 
 Like Bryant and O'Neal, Smith and Carlos were not especially close even though they were stars on the same San Jose State University track team, which was also known as Speed City. Smith and Carlos had a deep respect for each other as peers and rivals, but after the 1968 Games and the fallout from their protest, they drifted apart. 
 Who was the brains of the protest? Who was its real hero? They came to resent being linked to each other, and much of their effort went toward establishing themselves separately. 
 Instead of working together, building a movement from that protest, Smith and Carlos, ostracized from the Olympic movement and finding employment difficult to come by, tried to develop their own identities.
 There were occasional public digs at each other, mostly over who did what and who had the idea for a protest that has endured as a symbol of truth speaking to power. 
 To many of us, Smith and Carlos, in whichever order, were heroes for their act of courage. 
 Similarly, Bryant and O'Neal, the pre-eminent players of their day at their positions, are embraced for elevating the Lakers to dominant status in team sports.
 Two young wealthy athletes on the same team with equal stature are fighting each other for the amusement of an even wealthier owner. 
 Like Carlos and Smith, Kobe and Shaq are peers, but they operate in an environment where sharing is out: someone has to have it all, someone has to be king.
 This has led to one of the most dramatic breakups in recent N.B.A. history. Kobe, a free agent, is deciding whether to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers or the Denver Nuggets, or whether to re-sign with the Lakers. Shaq, meanwhile, has asked to be traded.
 Kobe is being treated by the Lakers as Jerry Buss's high-scoring plaything, the handsome young high-flying mascot, while Shaq is being painted as the brooding big man, jealous of his charming younger brother.
 It is sad to see because of what Kobe and Shaq could have done together, in basketball and beyond. Every river runs its course, but with Bryant and O'Neal, there is so much more they could accomplish. Look what they have already accomplished: three consecutive N.B.A. championships in an era in which there are better players, and more of them, than ever. 
 Last February, I took a break from the N.B.A. All-Star Game in Los Angeles and flew up to the Bay Area, where Smith and Carlos were participating in a track and field clinic for high school athletes. During one session, 30 athletes crammed into a classroom and sat spellbound as Smith, Carlos and Charlie Greene, another sprinter from that era, talked about the 1968 protest, commitment and the importance of putting personality aside to achieve a greater goal. 
 At one point, Carlos looked over at Smith and said that he might not have liked Smith, ''but I love him.''
 In the late 1960's, young African-Americans wanted power but didn't know how to seize it. The generation of Shaq and Kobe has power, gained through wealth and celebrity, but doesn't know how to use it. Although poverty and disenfranchisement swirl about them, they are buffered by wealth and celebrity in a way that Smith and Carlos were not.
 At a time of fan disillusionment with the mercenary attitudes of N.B.A. players and owners, Kobe and Shaq could make their version of Carlos and Smith's victory-stand protest by staying together in Los Angeles. 
 They have wealth, prestige and championship rings. But they will never be as powerful apart as they have been together. 
 That's a lesson that goes beyond Los Angeles; that's a lesson that can inspire a nation.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A Sports of the Times column on Monday about the peer relationship between Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal, and its parallels to the strained relationship of the former Olympic sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos, who won the gold and bronze medals in the 200 meters in the 1968 Olympics, misstated the nationality of Peter Norman, who won the silver medal in that race. He is from Australia, not New Zealand.




GRAPHIC: Photos: Shaquille O'Neal, left, and Kobe Bryant may not be as powerful apart as they are playing together. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. D1)
 The Lakers' Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant have allowed their differences to separate them. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); RUNNING (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); TRACK & FIELD (72%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%) Los Angeles Lakers

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (93%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (91%) William C Rhoden; Kobe Bryant; Shaquille O'Neal

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



247 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: VOICES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Intelligence Findings Sway Few, but Add to Anxieties

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Reporting for this article was contributed by Lisa Bacon in Richmond, Va.; Anne Berryman in Athens, Ga.; Duwayne Escobedo in Pensacola, Fla.; Laura Griffin in Dallas; Carolyn Marshall in San Francisco; Yudy Pineiro in Miami; Alberto Salvato in Cincinnati; Mindy Sink in Denver; and Toni Wood in Kansas City, Mo.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 11 

 BODY:
As Americans learned details of a Senate committee report that found flaws in the intelligence used to justify the war in Iraq, many who had always staunchly favored an invasion said that their support remained firm, and many who had strongly opposed the war said the report merely added to their list of reasons.
 But for the people in between -- those whose opinions about Iraq have changed, sometimes more than once, over 16 months of conflict -- the conclusion that government assessments of Iraq's weaponry were overstated stirred new uncertainty and anxiety, renewed sadness over lives lost, and a sense of helplessness about when and how the conflict would end.
 This weekend, seated on a park bench not far from Lake Michigan, Max Sanjuan, 32, recalled how in March 2003 he supported going to war. As time passed and stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons were not found, doubts began to creep up. Then on Friday came the Senate Intelligence Committee's findings. 
 ''It's getting scary to even think about,'' Mr. Sanjuan, a stock trader, said. ''Hopefully we did the right thing, but this doesn't give me much faith.''
 Eating lunch nearby, Mark Hall, 49, said he remained a proud supporter of President Bush and nearly all of his administration's decisions, but was starting to wish that events could somehow be rewound.
 ''I never like to see our boys get hurt, but especially now that we know all this,'' Mr. Hall, an unemployed car salesman, said. ''I guess I wish now that we hadn't gone in, in the first place.''
 ''And of course we can't leave now,'' he said. ''We're there. So what are we going to do about it?''
 In dozens of interviews this weekend, people from San Francisco to Miami spoke of broad concerns, too, about the intelligence failings pointedly described in the committee's 511-page report. What, some asked, did it signify about the government's larger understanding of world events? What did it mean for the reliability of intelligence on Osama bin Laden's whereabouts or on the nature or seriousness of terror threats? 
 In Richmond, Va., Celeste German, 35, said she was now unsure of what to make of government warnings, like one issued just Thursday, advising that Mr. bin Laden could be planning a terror attack in the United States sometime this year. ''I don't know if we should believe it,'' she said.
 And at a bookstore in South Florida, Maria De Los Rios, 28, a legal assistant, said she found the intelligence failings frightening for what else they might imply.
 ''If it takes them over a year to realize they've made a mistake, I can't even imagine what other mistakes they could make,'' she said. ''We're supposed to have the best intelligence in the world.'' 
 Across the country, many of those who had strongly supported the war all along seemed unfazed by the committee's findings that the government's prewar claims about unconventional weapons in Iraq were not backed up and that, despite the comments of some administration officials, intelligence agencies had found only tenuous ties between Iraq and Al Qaeda. Regardless, these people said, Saddam Hussein needed to be removed.
 ''I have a lot less confidence in the C.I.A. now, but I still believe the people in Iraq are better off,'' said Tom Oglesby, 45, a vegetable farmer and high school agriculture teacher in Hillsboro, Ohio.
 And in Pensacola Beach, Fla., where thousands packed the shoreline for the Navy's Blue Angels aerobatics show, Chris Williamson, 24, said simply: ''Bush is doing a great job. So what if there is no weapons of mass destruction?''
 Likewise, those who had long opposed the war in Iraq viewed the Senate report as a predictable, final proof that American soldiers should never have been sent there. Some complained, too, that the Senate committee had decided to wait several months before addressing an issue they consider crucial: how the Bush administration had used the intelligence agencies' assessments as it went into war.
 ''It seems to me clear that the Bush people wanted to go into Iraq, and nothing was going to stop them from going into Iraq,'' said David Hunt, 48, a high school art teacher in Kansas City, Mo.
 In San Francisco, Allen Gross, 56, said the findings were, sadly, what he had seen coming. ''There were no surprises,'' said Mr. Gross, who works as a stagehand. ''Just disappointment and disgust.''
 Many people had critical words for the state of the country's intelligence agencies and for George J. Tenet, who formally stepped down Sunday as director of the C.I.A.
 James Bratcher, 53, a private security officer from Farmington, Ga., argued that America's intelligence operation needed more money and more highly qualified employees. ''Any president can only react on any information he is given,'' Mr. Bratcher said.
 But others said President Bush was ultimately responsible for the failings of the agencies.
 ''The captain of the ship is responsible whether he knew about it or not,'' said Gregg Schobinger, 35, of Aurora, Colo.
 Although most people viewed the committee's findings through the prism of their own political leanings, a smaller group said they were still weighing the newly disclosed intelligence lapses, the war itself, and how all of that might play into their political choices.
 Sonny Patrick, a 50-year-old secretary in Chicago, said she has ''gone back and forth, back and forth'' on the question of war during the past year. The flawed intelligence, she said, left her once more wondering what to think -- both about war and about the coming presidential election. ''I need to think some more,'' she said quietly.
 For some with family and friends in the military, news of the flawed intelligence hit particularly hard. Some remembered hundreds of American soldiers who have died in Iraq, and wondered how their families must feel now. Some wondered whether service people in Iraq had read about the Senate report yet, and what they must be thinking.
 Steven Hawthorne, 34, of Dallas, said he served in the military during the first war in Iraq more than a decade ago. 
 ''I feel for the soldiers there,'' he said. ''I hurt for them.''
 News of the flawed intelligence would be disheartening, he said. Soldiers need to know that the cause they are fighting for is real, he said. ''It's like rushing into a house with a search warrant, and it's really for a house two doors down.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about voters' reaction to a Senate committee report that found flaws in the intelligence used to justify the war in Iraq misstated the given name of a reporting contributor. He is Albert Salvato, not Alberto.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SAN FRANCISCO -- Allen Gross, a stagehand, said that he was not surprised by the Senate Intelligence Committee's report on intelligence failures on Iraq and that it brought him only ''disappointment and disgust.'' (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
CHICAGO -- Max Sanjuan, a stock trader, said of the war, ''Hopefully we did the right thing, but this doesn't give me much faith.'' (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)
 CHICAGO -- Mark Hall of Cedar River, Mich., who was visiting with his daughter, Amber, said he still supported the president but on the Iraq war, he now wished ''that we hadn't gone in, in the first place.'' (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Monica Davey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004



248 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Rights Group Seeks to Halt Africa's Losses In Health Care

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Physicians for Human Rights, a nonprofit advocacy group, says in a report to be issued Thursday that a brain drain of nurses, doctors and pharmacists from Africa is further crippling already fragile health systems just as they are struggling to give hundreds of thousands of people with AIDS access to lifesaving medicines.
 The group proposes an array of measures to slow the migration of health professionals to rich countries, bolster staffing in African hospitals and clinics and avert what it calls ''this deepening disaster.'' 
 The 121-page report, ''An Action Plan to Prevent Brain Drain,'' urges wealthy nations to reimburse African countries for the loss of health professionals educated at African expense and to try harder to meet their own worker shortages by training more people domestically rather than recruiting abroad. 
 The group, which shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1997 for its work to ban land mines, also advocates that developed countries and international organizations break with tradition and begin directly supporting higher salaries or other forms of remuneration like housing allowances or cars for underpaid African health workers.
 ''Everyone says it's not sustainable to pay salaries,'' said Holly Burkhalter, the group's United States policy director. ''But we're facing the worst health crisis in human history. Let's do things outside the box.''
 As it has become clear that efforts to expand the treatment of AIDS -- even in economically better-off African countries like Botswana and South Africa -- are seriously hampered by the shortage of skilled staff members, the need to tackle the problem has gathered force, Ms. Burkhalter said.
 The report acknowledges a conflict between the rights of African health professionals to seek a better life and the rights of people in their home countries to decent health care, and attempts to accommodate both. 
 Physicians for Human Rights advocates tough limits on the recruitment of health professionals from Africa, by the governments of rich countries, private agencies and hospitals. But it stops short of calling for restrictions on the immigration of skilled health workers from Africa, a step that would be discriminatory if nurses and doctors from India and the Philippines, for example, continued to migrate.
 ''The balance will be best achieved when policies that make it more difficult for health professionals to emigrate, such as restrictions on recruitment, are implemented in the context of improving working conditions, fairer salaries and other advances in health professionals' ability to enjoy their rights,'' the report states.
 Another ethically difficult choice is whether H.I.V.-positive nurses and health workers should move to the front of the line for treatment with scarce drug-treatment regimens they otherwise could not afford. AIDS is decimating health staffs in some of the African countries hardest hit by AIDS.
 Physicians for Human Rights does not advocate giving workers such a priority, because it is concerned that poorer Africans may be disadvantaged. But it does urge African governments to ensure that health workers are informed about the availability of treatment programs and encouraged to get tested. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HOSPITALS (79%); ETHICS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); LANDMINES (53%) Medicine and Health; Doctors ; Nursing and Nurses; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: PHYSICIANS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (93%) Physicians for Human Rights

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); INDIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOTSWANA (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



249 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Duplicated Efforts Are Hampering AIDS Fight, Conferees Say

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

DATELINE: BANGKOK, July 12 

 BODY:
As spending to stop the global H.I.V. epidemic rises, waste and inefficiency from the duplication of efforts by donors are a major obstacle, a panel of experts said at the 15th International AIDS Conference here on Monday.
 In a session about why donors fail to work together, participants agreed about some steps that might improve coordination of donations to poor countries. They included standardizing measures to monitor the costs and outcomes of prevention efforts and accepting a set of principles from the United Nations that would be aimed at more efficient use of the influx of new resources.
 But there were no formal proposals, in part because the participants said it would take more time to resolve the complexities involved in the relationships between donors and recipient countries. 
 Private-sector donations exceed government donations in the AIDS effort, said Hank McKinnell, the chief executive of Pfizer, who moderated the session. 
 ''Like a flywheel gaining speed, the global donor community is now pledging, moving and disbursing funds and materials at unprecedented rates,'' he said.
 That influx creates tensions. The government staffs of most poor recipient nations are small, yet must must respond to high expectations of donors. At the same time, donors and recipients often become overwhelmed by the extensive paperwork that comes with donations.
 Describing his experience as a World Bank vice president, Praful Patel of Uganda said that he had ''not found a single country that wants donors to work together.''
 The reasons vary. Some countries mistrust the motivation of donors who push for coordination, Mr. Patel said, fearing it could be used as a tool for control. 
 As donors compete for prominence, said Dr. Biziwick Mwale, executive director of the National AIDS Commission in Malawi, ''lack of agreement on approaches and key issues among the donors themselves has also led to delays or problems in program implementation and coordination.''
 Also, Dr. Mwale said, many donors lack the appropriate authority to make decisions and have to consult and seek approval from their own countries or headquarters.
 Dr. James Curran, dean of the Emory University School of Public Health, urged that donors and countries use the same monitoring system to determine how many lives are prolonged and at what cost for each year saved.
 Gregg Gonsalves of the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York City said that scaling-up services through the public sector was essential to controlling the epidemic but that volunteer groups had ''played a key role in the response to AIDS, all too often filling in where governments have reneged on their duties'' to infected people and those at risk.
 ''There are thousands of community organizations, some large, some very small, doing incredible work around the world, some with very little support,'' Mr. Gonsalves said. ''We need to document this work, describe it and catalog it, so that what has been invisible takes shape and form for our governments, donors and ourselves.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Black New York Men and AIDS
 Despite progress in the battle against AIDS in New York City in recent years, middle-aged black men are nearly three times as likely as other New Yorkers to be infected with the virus that causes AIDS, according to a new report by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
 New data presented Monday at the International AIDS conference in Bangkok indicate that one out of every 14 black men between 40 and 54 is infected with the AIDS virus. In Manhattan, one in seven black men in this age group is infected.
 A major reason for the high number of cases among middle-aged black men, the report suggested, is a failure to get early testing that could alert sexually active men to problems before they infect others. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); AIDS POLICY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); MEN (60%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Philanthropy; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (56%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: Lawrence K Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); MALAWI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



250 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: SunTrust's 2nd-Quarter Profit Improves With a Drop in Bad Loans

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
SunTrust Banks Inc. said yesterday that its second-quarter profit rose 10 percent as it reaped more fees from consumer banking while losses from bad loans fell by more than half.
 Net income at SunTrust, which in May agreed to buy the National Commerce Financial Corporation of Memphis for $7 billion, increased to $364.8 million, or $1.29 a share, from $330.4 million, or $1.17 a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue gained 7.1 percent, to $1.5 billion. 
 SunTrust was expected to earn $1.26 a share, according to the average estimate of 23 analysts polled by Thomson Financial.
 Profit growth exceeded 9 percent for the first time since the first quarter of 2000 as the bank increased lending and gathered more fees from trust accounts and consumer services. Fewer companies defaulted on loans as the economy expanded.
 ''They definitely benefited from a decline in bad loans,'' said Hilary Hayes, who helps manage $4 billion, including SunTrust shares, at Victory SBSF Capital Management in New York. ''The gain in fee income beat my expectations almost across the board.''
 Shares of SunTrust, which is based in Atlanta, rose $1.62, or 2.5 percent, to $66. They slid 6.8 percent in the second quarter.
 Some of the largest United States banks, including Citigroup, Bank of America and Wachovia, will report second-quarter earnings this week. The median per-share profit increase among United States banks was about 8 percent, sustained by increases in consumer fees and declines in bad loans, said Lori Appelbaum, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group.
 SunTrust's profit rose less than 1 percent in last year's second quarter, partly because of a narrowed lending margin, or the difference between what the bank pays for funds and charges to extend credit, and a slump in loan demand from companies.
 The company's lending margin widened in the latest quarter, to 3.13 percent from 3.05 percent a year earlier. Average loans increased 8.9 percent, to $80.9 billion.
 Fee income rose 4.3 percent, to $622 million, as service charges on accounts increased and SunTrust collected more from trust accounts and investment services. Lending income rose 9.1 percent, to $872 million. Expenses gained 11 percent, to $928 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: SUNTRUST BANKS INC (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); NATIONAL COMMERCE FINANCIAL CORP (72%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Suntrust Banks Inc 

TICKER: STI (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



251 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Stage Actors and Producers Reach Late Contract Accord

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Jason Zinoman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
With much of Broadway holding its breath, the stage actors' and managers' union and Broadway's producers negotiated a tentative agreement yesterday, averting the industry's second strike in 16 months, officials from both sides said. 
 The deal settled most of the major outstanding contractual issues between the union, Actors' Equity, and the producers, including the knotty issue of nonunion touring productions, which had threatened to sidetrack negotiations -- and shows -- several times over the last two weeks. 
 ''The contract will serve our industry and theatergoers well, keeping Broadway strong in New York and creating more opportunities on the road,'' said a statement issued jointly by the union and the League of American Theaters and Producers. 
 Negotiators from both sides will be meeting today to complete the four-year deal, which was announced after a tense afternoon in which the union's leadership met behind closed doors for nearly three hours and rumors of a strike flooded theater Web sites and union phone lines. The governing council of the actors' union, which has 45,000 members nationwide, must also endorse the deal before it goes to a ratification committee. 
 Some details were still being worked out, but those who have seen the agreement said a critical element was a tiered system of payment for union actors in touring productions, in which actors in more successful shows will receive more pay than those in less popular shows. 
 In exchange, the union said, it received assurances that league producers would send more shows with union actors on the road, rather than licensing non-Equity tours to producers who are not members of the theater league and who use cheaper, less experienced actors to recreate touring versions of Broadway shows. In recent years, such tours have significantly cut into the number of union workweeks on the road, a source of great concern for Equity members, who already have high unemployment rates.
 One producer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of spoiling the fragile deal, said he was impressed by the union's courage to bend on the issue of tours. 
 ''Instead of saying, 'Don't do non-Equity tours,' they said, 'Here's a way to do Equity tours: hire us,''' said the producer. ''It doesn't end non-Equity tours, but it gives us a reason not to do them.''
 Equity members, whose contract expired on June 27 but who had continued to perform, also seemed pleased with the outcome. Hunter Foster, currently appearing as the fledgling moneyman Leo Bloom in the musical ''The Producers,'' said: ''Our union really stood together this time, and its members were willing to sacrifice. People really stood up for the future.''
 Indeed, with many shows already struggling to make money from week to week in a surprisingly slow summer, officials on both sides worried that a prolonged walkout could be disastrous for the future of many productions, and for Broadway as a whole.
 Across the industry, summer sales have been flat. According to statistics from the league, of the 30 productions on Broadway, more than half were already playing to less than 80 percent of capacity in early July, and several, like ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Little Shop of Horrors'' and ''Golda's Balcony,'' were playing to considerably less than that. 
 Negotiations began in early April and proceeded slowly but cordially until talks broke down just hours before the contract expired. Talks resumed last Tuesday, but grew increasingly heated over the weekend as both sides traded offers. On Saturday, the league offered to end the talks with a deal that would set aside the issues regarding touring until the next round of contract talks, scheduled for 2008. The union rejected that proposal, saying the road shows had to be part of any deal. 
 The producers of one show, the musical ''The Boy From Oz,'' broke ranks with the league on Sunday and struck a separate deal with the union to avoid a strike. As late as yesterday afternoon, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was expressing concern about a possible walkout and had offered the use of city facilities and mediators from the City Office of Labor Relations to help talks.
 With the agreement, Broadway avoided its second strike in two seasons, and city officials seemed appreciative. ''Both sides put the audience first and made sure the curtain never closed on Broadway,'' said Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president and chief executive of NYC & Company, the city's convention and tourist bureau. 
 That was not the case, of course, in March 2003, when stage musicians walked off the job for four days in a dispute with producers. That strike cost the industry at least $5 million in sales, and also hurt ancillary businesses like restaurants, parking garages and hotels.
 This time around, many of those who depend on Broadway for business were expressing relief that Broadway would not go dark. Drew Hodges, the creative director of SpotCo, which handles the advertising for several major Broadway shows (''Avenue Q,'' ''Chicago,'' ''Rent''), said avoiding a strike was critical to the industry's long-term health. 
 ''It's good for everybody,'' Mr. Hodges said. ''I mean, if there's a strike, the ads don't go in. But it's more important to the daily momentum to keep up a sense of confidence between Broadway shows and the people that go see them. I think we always want to make it seem like New York is the city that never sleeps and Broadway is always going on.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Avenue Q'' on West 45th Street. The agreement resolved the problem of nonunion casts of touring Broadway productions. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (96%); THEATER (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WORK WEEK (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Theater; Labor; Organized Labor; Strikes; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: ACTORS' EQUITY ASSOCIATION (59%) Actors' Equity Association

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



252 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; LETTER FROM CHICAGO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: A Prized Project, a Mayor and Persistent Criticism

BYLINE: By Stephen Kinzer

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Even in a city with a worldwide reputation for innovative urban design, the opening this month of a spectacular new park and performance center near Lake Michigan promises to be a huge event.
 The site, Millennium Park, is opening four years late and at three times the original budget, but few here are complaining. The park boasts an outdoor music pavilion designed by Frank Gehry, complete with his signature swirls of shiny metal; an underground theater with 1,500 seats; elaborate gardens with 250 varieties of plants; and other attractions that include an ice skating rink and a shower room for bicyclists.
 This will not be a park with large meadows, groves or other spaces for quiet contemplation. Among its major features are two extraordinary art objects. One is a 110-ton polished-steel sculpture by the British artist Anish Kapoor. The other, by the Spaniard Jaume Plensa, will be centered on two 50-foot-high towers onto which close-up photographs that have been taken of Chicagoans will be projected while water streams over them. 
 This project is a milestone for Mayor Richard M. Daley, who has made the physical reconstruction of Chicago a priority. The 24.5 acres on which Millennium Park has arisen were for years an unsightly railroad yard. Generations of city planners wrestled with how to turn it into a civic space. Mr. Daley embraced this challenge, and despite mounting costs and missed deadlines, he insisted that when Millennium Park was completed, the city would have a new downtown treasure.
 It is opening at a time when the mayor also seems to be making progress toward resolving some of the city's most intractable problems. The murder rate has begun to drop, and last month Mr. Daley announced a sweeping plan to build 100 schools before the end of the decade.
 But although Millennium Park may well be remembered as one of Mr. Daley's great achievements, this is not a moment of unalloyed pride for the mayor, who is under intensifying criticism for what some say is a pattern of corruption in and around his administration.
 Last week, The Chicago Tribune ran a front-page article reporting that the company chosen to clean up after a recent city-sponsored food festival had submitted an inflated bid, but appeared to have won the contract because it donated tens of thousands of dollars to a political committee that supports Mr. Daley.
 Reports like these appear here with deadening regularity. Last month, a former construction contractor told The Tribune that he bribed city officials in exchange for sewer contracts. Other companies connected to the mayor through friendship or campaign contributions have been accused of making inflated profits on contracts for projects like street paving and newsstands.
 ''No one is going to cheat the city and no one is going to steal from the city,'' Mr. Daley declared after one recent round of accusations against his administration. ''I hope you're not saying that me or anybody around me is for corruption. That is unfair.''
 Mr. Daley, who declined to be interviewed, has not been accused of personally receiving money from any of these deals. Since he prides himself on hands-on management, however, they have cast a shadow over his administration and threaten to take some of the luster off the party that the city will give this weekend to celebrate the park's opening.
 The park is the latest of the grand architectural statements for which Chicago is renowned. This city was the birthplace of the modern steel-framed skyscraper, and in 1893 it built the famous neo-Classical ''white city'' as part of the World's Columbian Exposition. Later it provided a palette for the talents of world-shaking architects like Frank Lloyd Wright and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.
 Under the mayor's original plan, the park was to cost $150 million and be completed in 2000. The schedule stretched out as the project became more ambitious, and the cost reached $475 million. About half the money came from donors, many of whom paid handsomely to see their family or corporate names attached to the park. Among the main installations are Bank One Promenade, SBC Plaza, McCormick Tribune Plaza, the BP Pedestrian Bridge and the Jay Pritzker Pavilion. The names of more than 80 individuals, corporations and foundations who donated at least $1 million are to be carved onto three granite slabs.
 ''They like to make a difference, these people who have megamoney,'' said John H. Bryan, a local businessman who led the fund-raising. ''They want to think that 50 years from now, their grandchildren will come back and say, 'Grandfather was somebody.'''
 Since taking office in 1989, Mayor Daley has directed large development projects like Navy Pier, which he transformed from an eyesore into a glittering complex of theaters and family attractions. He has also worked to beautify neighborhoods with flower gardens and wrought-iron fences.
 The mayor has little patience with those who do not share his vision. Last year he tired of the debate over what to do with a small lakefront airstrip called Meigs Field and ordered the field bulldozed in the middle of the night. He also encouraged the transformation of Maxwell Street, a historic center for peddlers and street musicians, into a shiny cluster of college dormitories, chain stores and upscale condominiums.
 ''Maxwell Street was something beautiful and intrinsic to Chicago, but it wasn't fancy or upscale, so Daley didn't have eyes to see it,'' said Steve Balkin, a professor of economics at Roosevelt University.
 By promoting Millennium Park so vigorously, Mayor Daley has probably secured his position among the city's great builders. 
 ''It's really hard to say now whether people here will ultimately come to love this park,'' said John O. Norquist, a former mayor of Milwaukee who is president of the Congress for the New Urbanism in Chicago. ''What's more broadly important is what this shows about Daley's commitment to the urban idea. He has become increasingly good at finding urban policies that add value to a city, and he's held in high esteem for that.''
 Mr. Norquist has experience with scandals, having faced a sexual harassment lawsuit during his last term as mayor. Asked about the park opening against the backdrop of accusations against the Daley administration, he replied, ''If you've got something happening that you don't want attention to be focused on, it's nice to have something good happening at the same time.''
 How much taint the mayor carries from the scandals that are lapping at his doorstep could depend on how successful the local United States attorney, Patrick J. Fitzgerald, is in his grand jury investigations into corruption here. Mr. Fitzgerald is treading on ground that Chicago prosecutors have long avoided, and more than a few politicians are hoping that whoever wins November's presidential election will replace him with someone less zealous.
 In recent weeks, the local press has been outspoken in its criticism of Mayor Daley. The Tribune published an editorial calling Chicago ''one of the most corrupt cities in America, if not the most corrupt city in America.'' The Sun-Times asserted that ''his responses to a string of scandals have failed to convince anyone of anything except his sensitivity to character issues and charges of mob influence.''
 The July edition of Chicago magazine carries a lengthy report on ''controversies that have rattled City Hall -- and enriched the mayor's friends and supporters.''
 Richard Simpson, a former Chicago alderman who teaches political science at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said political corruption had been an almost unbroken tradition in Chicago since the 1860's, including the two decades the mayor's legendary father, Mayor Richard J. Daley, was in office.
 ''To list all the scandals he's faced would be a book-length project,'' Mr. Simpson said of the younger Mayor Daley. ''Each time there's a new one, he makes a little change to the ethics ordinance or fires someone. His theory is that there are only a few rotten apples, but the real truth is that the barrel is rotten, and he's not ready to replace the barrel.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The park features an interactive fountain designed by the Spanish artist Jaume Plensa.
 A music pavilion designed by Frank Gehry is a centerpiece of the long-awaited Millennium Park in Chicago. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); CITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); BRIBERY (66%); MURDER (63%); CRIME RATES (63%); ETHICS (61%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); ICE SKATING (55%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Area Planning and Renewal; Ethics; Parks and Other Recreation Areas

PERSON: Stephen Kinzer; Richard M (Mayor) Daley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Millennium Park (Chicago); Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



253 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: The Sale Prices Of Apartments In Manhattan Keep On Rising

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Prices of Manhattan apartments continued their rapid ascent in the first half of the year, with the average selling price of condominiums approaching $1.25 million, according to a new market snapshot. The average price marked a 38 percent jump from the same period a year ago, an increase due in part to the sale of more high-end apartments.
 Co-op prices increased as well, but more modestly. The average price increased 19 percent to $858,000. The biggest increases were seen in studios, which increased by 20 percent, and in two-bedroom apartments, which increased by 18 percent. 
 The new sales figures were released yesterday by the Corcoran Group, a day before a similar study is due out from a competitor, Douglas Elliman. The surveys provide the first inkling of the possible effects of rising interest rates on what has been one of the hottest real estate markets in the country.
 The Corcoran survey, based on completed sales reported by brokers throughout Manhattan, found that about half the increase in condo prices was due to the increasing strength in the upper-end market. The average price for a two-bedroom condo rose by 25 percent to $1.28 million, while the average price of apartments of three bedrooms or more rose by 32 percent to $2.721 million.
 ''We still have an oversupply of buyers over sellers, especially in the largest apartments and most desirable neighborhoods,'' said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive officer of the Corcoran Group.
 Ms. Liebman said that much of the surge in prices occurred over the winter, setting the tone for 2004 as ''an incredibly strong year,'' as former renters rushed to buy and affluent Wall Street investors decided to put money into high-end real estate. 
 More recently, she said, the supply of apartments for sale began to rise, especially among smaller apartments, as interest rate increases and higher prices persuaded some renters to sign new leases. Even so, the prices of condominium studios over the six-month period were up 11 percent over the same period in 2003. 
 ''Hard-to-find apartments, apartments with something special -- a park view, a terrace, or a prime neighborhood -- are still creating a frenzy,'' she said. ''You would think we were giving something away. You have open houses, and 70 people show up and 9 or 10 make bids.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Condominiums; Cooperatives

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Corcoran Group

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



254 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Exports Spur Sharp Growth for Singapore

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 12 

 BODY:
Singapore's economy expanded 11.7 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the Trade and Industry Ministry said on Monday, placing the city-state among the fastest growing economies in the world.
 The ministry tied the improvement to the recovery from the effects of the SARS epidemic and to global economic growth, from which exporters like Singapore are receiving a strong push.
 The United States, the world's biggest economy, expanded 3.1 percent last year, the fastest growth rate in three years. 
 Asia's biggest economy, Japan, is also reviving, growing 6.1 percent in the first three months of 2004, the fastest rate among the Group of 7 nations. China's rate of growth averaged 9.1 percent in 2003.
 Singapore's non-oil exports rose a seasonally adjusted 11.8 percent in May from April, the fastest monthly pace since January 2003. Exports to China increased 57 percent from a year earlier.
 The surge in Singapore's economy suggests growth also quickened in the quarter in Taiwan, Malaysia and other Asian nations, analysts said. 
 Like Singapore, those countries are likely to benefit from rising global demand for the region's exports of laptop computers, cellphones and DVD players, analysts said.
 ''This bodes well for Taiwan and Malaysia,'' said Robert Subbaraman, an economist at Lehman Brothers Japan in Tokyo. ''This is a lot stronger than expected.''
 Nigel Rendell, an economist at CLSA Singapore, raised his 2004 growth forecast for Singapore to 8.7 percent from 8 percent after Monday's report. Singapore in May raised its forecast for growth this year to as much as 7.5 percent from 5.5 percent.
 ''The economy was exceptionally strong in the first half,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''While that momentum may not continue into the second half, it does mean that growth for the whole year will be higher than the government's forecast.''
 Singapore is also benefiting from incentives offered by the government to attract investment by pharmaceutical companies including GlaxoSmithKline, reducing reliance on production of disk drives and other electronics.
 Hewlett-Packard said in January that it planned to invest $1 billion in Singapore in the next five years. 
 GlaxoSmithKline last month opened a $59 million plant in Singapore to cater to increasing demand from Asia. It expects sales in the region to rise as much as 15 percent this year. It is also building a $30 million research center in Singapore. This week, Pfizer will open a factory on the island.
 Because of a revival in business and holiday travel, which slumped last year because of SARS, visitor arrivals more than tripled in April and May. Global Refund Singapore, a sales tax refund agency, estimated that retail spending by visitors increased 80 percent, to more than $50 million, during June's annual Great Singapore Sale, The Straits Times reported.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Singapore's non-oil exports rose 11.8 percent in May, the fastest monthly pace since January 2003, while the economy grew 11.7 percent in the second quarter, on demand for computer chips and pharmaceuticals. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 Hewlett-Packard is planning to invest $1 billion in Singapore, where workers inspect the Superdome server in the company's new plant. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (73%); SARS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); EPIDEMICS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); SALES TAX (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); PFIZER INC (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (52%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); GSK (NYSE) (52%); GSK (LSE) (52%); BIOC (EGX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) SINGAPORE (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Singapore; China

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



255 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: A Haven for the Arts, Divided by Genre

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Put a bunch of actors and artists under one roof, and there is bound to be lots of drama and works on paper. Unfortunately for those battling over the fate of a graffiti-covered city-owned building on the Lower East Side, none of it is the kind they would want on their resumes. A bitter dispute over the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center has had them fighting for years, with memos, letters and histrionics, over who should run the place and how.
 On one side is a group, mostly theater types, who started the center in 1993, paying the city about $2,000 a month for use of the 80,000-square-foot former public school at 107 Suffolk Street. Opposing them is a group, mostly visual artists, whom the theater types enlisted as tenants but whose complaints over lack of heat and other services in the past led them first to organize a rent strike and later to become de facto managers of their half of the building. 
 If this were only about real estate, life would be simple. But what turns this spat into an emotionally charged saga along the lines of ''Rent'' meets ''Bonfire of the Vanities'' is that the theater types are mostly Latino, while the visual artists are mostly white. The center's Latino founders accuse the artists of not only wanting control of the building, but also of whitewashing its ethnic soul. The artists deny such designs, saying that they are dedicated to keeping the Latino presence but that the building needs to be properly run.
 The uncomfortable upshot is that actors and artists -- two groups who have traditionally been allies in the increasingly difficult search for affordable creative space -- have turned on each other. Each side accuses the other of acting in bad faith, hiding the books or wanting to run the place as it pleases -- and perhaps even exclusively. Each insists it has no secret agendas, will show the books to an auditor and just wants the place to run efficiently. 
 The city -- which recently said the center's founders were the building's only legitimate managers -- appears to be tiring of the impasse and has told both groups to find a resolution or find themselves a new space. A compromise was floated by the City Council member representing the district to see if peace could be reached, which in turn would allow the Department of Cultural Affairs to oversee the building and provide much-needed financing for repairs and programs.
 ''We have to save this as a community cultural and artistic center with Latino programming,'' said the councilman, Alan Gerson. ''I have seldom seen anything so vitriolic as this fight between these two groups. All their energies have been drawn from their art to this internecine struggle when they share common needs and a building.''
 What they especially share right now is distrust. The center's Latino founders feel they are being edged out by a group of artists who they say are interested only in cheap studio space. Their fear is tinged with outrage, given the center's namesake. Clemente Soto Velez was a Puerto Rican poet and activist who spent part of his life in New York. He spent another part in federal prison as an ardent nationalist dedicated to getting the United States government out of Puerto Rico.
 Perhaps that was why the center's founders were galled when the artists recently announced the formation of the Soto Velez Management Corp., ostensibly to manage the building jointly as per a 2001 agreement. The problem is that the agreement was never completed, and the name was taken without the other group's approval.
 ''There is a little bit of ignorance with the artists,'' said Mateo Gomez, one of the founders, who is also the artistic director of La Tea Theater. ''These people do not understand our culture or choose not to understand it. I'm talking about respect. They do not respect the Latino community.''
 The artists -- about 40 of them, who go by the name the Artists Alliance -- occupy a group of studios on the top two floors of the five-story building. Each of them pays about $500 a month for their classroom-size studios. Originally brought in by one of the center's founders, Edgardo Vega Yunque, they soon were at odds with him. They organized themselves in the late 1990's to complain about lack of heat, leaking ceilings and overflowing toilets. 
 ''It's affordable space,'' said Shelly McGuinness, the alliance's executive director. ''But it isn't affordable if you can't use it.''
 The group withheld rent, then went on to pay a reduced amount, sometimes as little as $3,500. Ms. McGuinness, who receives a salary of $36,000 from the studio fees her group collects, said her group also directly paid for some repairs.
 But the center's founders and their supporters have said the rent strike and reduced payments amounted to a sort of economic sabotage that has crippled it. They said that the Artists Alliance should be paying $11,000 a month, and that they owe at least $390,000 since 1999. They said there is also uncollected rent on two other spaces she said the alliance improperly acquired. 
 Manny Alfaro, who runs a Latino actors' group in the building, said the artists are ''pushing out Latinos to make room for their own.
 ''They're looking at any little space, especially in New York City,'' he said. ''This isn't Paris, where you can go paint on the Left Bank. That's why they're here.''
 He said he fears the artists are the first wave that will eventually displace longtime tenants. That is what he saw on the other side of the Williamsburg Bridge, where the arrival of artists was followed by the development of lofts and cafes that transformed the once gritty -- and predominately Latino -- neighborhood. Eventually, many artists were forced out, too.
 On the Lower East Side, the artists say they do not want to control the building or eliminate its Latino identity. But they, too, are intent on staying. They see themselves as helping to preserve the area, not only with their work but also with educational programs for the community.
 ''Artists keep neighborhoods from gentrifying,'' Ms. McGuinness said. ''If we continue to fight, who's to say the city won't take this building and turn it over to condos? Is getting rid of a solid creative base in the community going to halt the spread of gentrification?''
 But some old friends turned foes have taken a radically different line. Mr. Vega Yunque, who has since gone on to publish one well-received novel and has two more on the way, scoffs at the notion of art and community
 ''It's ironic that they call it community since there's not a lot of communing going on,'' he said. ''True art is for the future. It's not so the people can do little educational programs for the poor, downtrodden, fuzzy-wuzzy children. That's just playing into the hands of the man who doesn't care about the people. A community's last priority should be art.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mateo Gomez, who runs La Tea Theater, in his office at the center. The city, which owns the building, says it will evict everyone unless a deal is reached.
Doug Blanchard in the studio he rents from the actors who manage the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center on the Lower East Side. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The Clemente Soto Velez Cultural and Educational Center is in what was once a public school building. The playwrights and actors who run the center are in a dispute with the artists who rent studios on the upper floors. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EVICTION (73%); CITIES (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); BAD FAITH (65%) Art; Theater; Hispanic-Americans; Renting and Leasing; Evictions; Art

ORGANIZATION: Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center (NYC)

PERSON: David Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



256 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Industrial Output Rises

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Mexican industrial production rose for a sixth month in May, spurred by demand in the United States for appliances and manufacturing equipment. Industrial output, which includes manufacturing, construction, mining, and utilities, grew 2.1 percent from the period last year, after a 4 percent rise in April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); TRENDS (83%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Production

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



257 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Moving 1,000 Workers From Downtown to New Jersey

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Citigroup is moving more than 1,000 employees to New Jersey from Lower Manhattan, according to government officials and real estate executives, in a major realignment that raises new doubts about the pace of economic rejuvenation downtown. 
 The bank also is expected to announce today that it is moving more than 700 employees from Midtown to Long Island City, where it plans to build a 14-story office building on a parking lot across the street from its 48-story tower at Court Square.
 That move could solidify a 15-year effort to create a less costly office district in Long Island City that can compete with Jersey City and stem the flow of jobs leaving New York. But at least in the short term, the bank's realignment hurts Lower Manhattan, where, nearly three years after the Sept. 11 terror attack, there is plenty of vacant space and corporations are still skittish about making commitments. 
 Leah Johnson, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to comment.
 In an effort to soften the blow, state and city officials say, Citigroup executives have told them that over time they will actually increase the number of bank employees in New York City. The bank also said it would not vacate any downtown office space. But that could depend on the vagaries of the economy.
 J.P. Morgan Chase, which moved about 2,000 employees from downtown to Jersey City two years ago, is also unloading a large block of office space in Lower Manhattan, which will only increase downtown's vacancy rate of 14.2 percent. Chase is still shedding employees as a result of its merger completed this month with Bank One. 
 ''There's going to be a shakeout in the financial services industry throughout the city that involves relocating some jobs out of high-cost space in Manhattan,'' said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City. ''It doesn't make sense anymore. We'll continue to attract the high-value-added jobs to Manhattan. Hopefully, we can capture the other jobs in these emerging business districts in Long Island City and Brooklyn.''
 Citigroup first moved to Long Island City in 1989, when it erected the 48-story tower, the tallest building in the city outside Manhattan. City officials, who provided the bank with a subsidy package, had hoped the new tower would mark the establishment of a new office district. But the semi-industrial area never took off. More recently, the city rezoned the neighborhood for commercial development and local business leaders are trying to lure restaurants and retailers. 
 Metropolitan Life moved 1,600 employees in March from Manhattan to two brick factory buildings in Long Island City where workers once built Rolls-Royce automobiles and later fighter planes.
 Citicorp is now planning to construct a building for about 1,500 employees on land used as a parking lot across the street from its Long Island City tower. One government official said that 750 employees would be moving from the bank's Midtown offices. David A. Brause, vice president of Brause Realty, which owns the Met Life buildings, said the neighborhood's time had arrived. 
 ''You have the C.E.O. of Met Life commuting to Long Island City every day,'' Mr. Brause said. ''That's a tremendous vote of confidence for this area.''
 But the situation downtown is more uncertain. The downtown vacancy rate remains relatively high and rents have fallen from a year ago. Larry S. Silverstein is seeking tenants for his 1.7 million-square foot-tower at 7 World Trade Center, which is under construction, and for the planned 2.6 million-square-foot Freedom Tower. There are few prospects in sight.
 Goldman Sachs plans to build a new headquarters at Battery Park City, but the investment bank will vacate nearly as much office space in Lower Manhattan as it will erect.
 Citigroup never replaced the large blocks of office space it lost in the attack on the World Trade Center. But now it plans to move hundreds of technical and other back office jobs from downtown to three buildings in Morris County, in New Jersey. Citigroup would also consolidate some of its New Jersey operations. The bank, however, has assured state and city officials that it will be adding better-paying jobs in Manhattan.
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, declined to discuss details of Citigroup's plans. But, he added, ''I was assured that the space in Lower Manhattan would be backfilled by high-paying jobs over the next several years.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ZONING (71%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Banks and Banking; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



258 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: In a Blow to the Big Board, Google Will List on the Nasdaq

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Google Inc. said yesterday that it planned to list its $2.7 billion initial public offering, which has been highly awaited this year, on the Nasdaq market, dealing a blow to the New York Stock Exchange.
 The Nasdaq and the Big Board have publicly indicated they were aggressively courting Google. Neither market indicated why the company decided on the Nasdaq, but analysts have long speculated that it had the advantage because of its large number of technology listings. 
 In an amended regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Google said it would list with Nasdaq. It did not specify which trading symbol it intended to use.
 Given the significance of the announcement, the Nasdaq was restrained in its response. A Nasdaq spokeswoman, Bethany Sherman, said the market ''typically does not comment on pending I.P.O.'s.''
 The Big Board put its best face on the decision, issuing a statement that said: ''Google is an outstanding company with a great management team, and we wish the company well with its initial public offering.''
 During the technology boom of the 1990's, the Nasdaq's cachet soared as the premier destination for technology listings.
 The New York Stock Exchange opened a Silicon Valley office and lobbied dot-com companies in an effort to compete more aggressively for technology listings.
 The Nasdaq's fortunes have waned since the dot-com bubble burst, but Google's listing suggests the market remains attractive for prominent public offerings.
 ''It's pretty well established for a technology company to be listed on Nasdaq,'' said George Sarlo, co-founder and a partner at WaldenVC, a venture capital firm. ''I would have been surprised actually if they had listed on the New York Stock Exchange.''
 In the filing, Google also gave more details about the auction process it will use to sell its shares.
 For instance, it said bidders would have to reconfirm bids if more than 15 business days elapsed since their bids were submitted or if there was a material change in the prospectus that required it to be recirculated. Unconfirmed bids would be disregarded and ''deemed to have been withdrawn,'' the filing said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); BONDS (70%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); WALDEN VENTURE CAPITAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) Google Inc; New York Stock Exchange; Nasdaq Stock Market

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



259 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Reality for Apprentices

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 12 

 BODY:
At a cavernous white factory complex near the Baltic Sea in Laage, Germany, where 414 people make gas generators used to inflate automobile air bags, the plant manager, Thomas Grupp, is in a bind.
 Although sales at the plant, owned by TRW Airbag Systems, are on track to rise to 190 million euros this year, Mr. Grupp may be forced to cut costs and to delay hiring. 
 European auto sales are slumping and German carmakers are under price pressure, but these are not the reasons for the possible cuts. What is prompting Mr. Grupp's caution is a German government plan to force millions of companies to hire extra apprentices or -- in TRW's case -- pay a 50,000 euro annual fine. 
 ''This is not the way to kickstart German business,'' said Mr. Grupp, whose company is a unit of TRW Automotive of Livonia, Mich. ''What I need is more flexibility in hiring and firing -- not increased costs.''
 With German economic growth averaging just 0.3 percent a year since 2001, and unemployment in May at 10.5 percent, the Social Democrat-Green Party ruling coalition is poised to levy an apprentice fee that businesses say would worsen the prolonged stagnation. Business protests have led to a delay in imposing the fee, but the threat still looms large. 
 Most companies with 11 or more workers that do not employ 7 percent of their work force as apprentices would be forced to pay 3,500 euros a year for each missing apprentice, according to the Federal Institute for Vocational Research in Bonn, a government researcher. For big employers like DaimlerChrysler, based in Stuttgart, the yearly payments could top 1 million euros. 
 Business groups and opposition conservative lawmakers are threatening lawsuits if Chancellor Gerhard Schroder imposes the fines, which would be used to pay for two- to three-year apprenticeships for what the Bonn institute estimates are 35,000 to 100,000 teenagers without trainee jobs.
 ''This isn't going to work,'' said Stefan Schneider, an economist at Deutsche Bank Research in Frankfurt. ''Businesses in Germany are hiring fewer apprentices because there isn't enough work to go around. You can't penalize them for a bad economy.'' 
 Proponents of the fee, including the Berlin-based Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund, a lobbying organization with 10.3 million members from eight of Germany's biggest unions, contend the fees will force German businesses to shoulder greater responsibility and costs for training.
 ''We're trying to be sensitive to the plight of small businesses, that's why we exempted firms with 10 or fewer workers,'' said Ulrich Kasparick, a member of the ruling coalition who is vice chairman of the Education and Research Committee in the lower house of Parliament, which helped draft the proposal. ''Big companies aren't training our youth, and this is an attempt to make them more responsible.''
 At its core, the law seeks to address the plight of Germany's vaunted vocational training system, which took shape under medieval craftsmen and today still relies on apprenticeships as the gateway to full-time employment. Even today, Germans seeking to work as bank clerks, restaurant cooks and bakers must first complete an apprenticeship .
 But as the economy began to slow in 2000, businesses cut back. This year, they are offering only 1.6 million paid apprenticeships, down from 1.8 million in 2000, according to the Bonn vocational institute. That has left as many as 100,000 people between the ages of 17 and 25 without prospects.
 ''We don't have enough apprenticeships in Germany because Germany is in the midst of an employment crisis,'' said Gunter Walden, a vocational training expert at the Bonn institute who says the fee would probably lead to less hiring. ''In many industries, jobs are being cut. In some, people are being trained for jobs that no longer exist.''
 Christian Stahnke, an 18-year-old student at the Heinz-Brandt-Oberschule in Berlin, has applied to 35 companies this year looking for an apprenticeship as an auto mechanic but has come up empty. ''I'm willing to work anywhere in Germany, but at the moment, there isn't much out there,'' Mr. Stahnke said.
 Karla Werkentin, the principal at Mr. Stahnke's school, said 90 percent of her students will not find apprenticeships this year. The others will go into government job training programs or end up idle. ''This is a ticking time bomb,'' she said.
 Critics say the law will penalize employers at a time when the economy is only beginning to recover. Most employers will opt to pay the fine, Mr. Walden predicted, because 3,500 euros is less than the 10,000 to 16,000 euros it would cost to employ an apprentice.
 DaimlerChrysler, which employs 7,500 apprentices in Germany, or 5 percent of its German work force, would have to hire 3,000 more apprentices -- or pay the fine.
 ''We're categorically against this plan because it would cause the company a variety of negative consequences, principal of which would be the higher costs,'' said Verena Mueller, a DaimlerChrysler spokeswoman. 
 Even large employers that already comply with the law, like the Dusseldorf-based Metro, Germany's largest retailer, oppose the fee as an unwanted regulatory burden. 
 ''It would add administrative costs on us just to prove to the government that we're complying with their regulation,'' said Jurgen Homeyer, a Metro spokesman.
 The burden could be greatest on Germany's small and midsize companies, which are already struggling. In 2003, a record 39,700 German companies filed for insolvency, according to the German Federal Statistical Office, up 5.5 percent from 2002. The credit rating agency Creditreform, based in Neuss, Germany, predicts the number of corporate bankruptcies will rise this year from 39,000 to 41,000.
 At the 55-employee Motzener Kunstoff-und Gummiverarbeitung, a maker of plastic and rubber washers and moldings used in appliances and truck axles, 16 miles southeast of Berlin, the owner, Thomas Konig, said the fee would be counterproductive.
 Mr. Konig has six trainees, 11 percent of his work force, and would not be required to pay the fee. But he typically adjusts the number of apprentices to meet available business.
 If Mr. Konig were bound by law to employ a set number, he would do so to avoid the fee. ''But my business is cyclical, so I wouldn't be able to offer the extra apprentices full-time jobs,'' he said. 
 At Somatex Medical Technologies, which makes medical equipment like bone marrow biopsy needles in Teltow, a mile southwest of Berlin, the owner, Frank Kniep, sees the proposal as another burden on small businesses.
 Somatex has 30 workers, including 2 trainees -- just meeting the 7 percent minimum. ''I think it's a good goal to hire more trainees because trainees are our future,'' Mr. Kniep said. ''But I'm opposed to the method. The administrative burdens on us are already too high.''
 At TRW Airbag in Laage, Mr. Grupp, the plant manager, said fines would force him to cut operating costs and delay hiring. TRW Airbag Systems employs 15 apprentices, which meets his company's need, but would fall 14 short of the mandated minimum. 
 ''I'd pay the fines,'' Mr. Grupp said. ''I'm not going to train people for jobs that don't exist.'' On June 16, Mr. Grupp and other business managers won a reprieve when lawmakers agreed to delay imposing the fines for at least five months and perhaps a year to see if employers fulfill a promise to increase apprenticeships voluntarily.
 Lawmakers held off after the Deutsche Industrie- und Handelskammertag, which represents 81 regional chambers of commerce, agreed to encourage members to create 30,000 new apprenticeships a year through 2006 voluntarily. 
 A chief union organizer predicted voluntary efforts would fail and said the push to impose fines was likely to regain momentum after a government auditor's report in November measures the success of voluntary job creation.
 ''There aren't going to be any new apprenticeships -- everybody knows that now,'' said Christian Kuhbauch, a Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund executive responsible for youth employment. ''In November, our members are going to look at the numbers and say, 'We've given it a chance, now let's go with the fines.'''
 The Social Democrats' ruling coalition has kept the option open, sending the fee legislation to a committee that can enact the fines without further legislative approval. If the job picture does not improve, Mr. Kuhbauch said that could happen as soon as January. But some Social Democrats say the legislation could not realistically be considered until the middle of next year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: As part of their apprenticeships to become material processing mechanics, Timo Pfaff, left
Dominik Hoffmann, center
and Jens Kaubisch work in a factory in Motzen, Germany. (Photo by Hermann Bredehorst/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Thomas Konig has hired six apprentices at the factory he owns in Motzen, Germany. Apprentices make up 11 percent of his work force. (Photo by Hermann Bredehorst/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); AIRBAG MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LOBBYING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); POLITICS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Vocational Training; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Suits and Litigation; Unemployment; Fines (Penalties); Labor; Vocational Training

COMPANY: TRW AIRBAG SYSTEMS GMBH & CO KG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2399 FABRICATED TEXTILE PRODUCTS, NEC (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (78%) Kevin J O'Brien; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



260 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Charter Commission to Focus on Budget Practices and Judicial Conduct

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
For the third time in his term, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will appoint a commission charged with tinkering with the city's charter, a mayoral privilege that often draws the ire of particular groups when it is exercised.
 This year, however, Mr. Bloomberg will avoid the more controversial proposals that were explored by the last two charter commissions he appointed, most notably the proposal that sought to end partisan elections in New York City. Voters overwhelmingly rejected that measure last year after Mr. Bloomberg spent millions of dollars of his own money to promote the idea. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's commission, which he is expected to appoint this week, will examine issues this summer that appear intended to win the hearts of good-government groups. 
 Mr. Bloomberg would like the commission to present voters with proposals to create professional standards for administrative law judges, improve some of the city's methods for buying goods and services, and make permanent some of the city's budget practices that were imposed by the state during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's. 
 Some of these issues were tucked into last year's proposal to create nonpartisan elections, but either received little attention or were defeated when voters rejected the elections proposal. ''Unfortunately a lot of good constructive changes to the city charter got lost in the discussion of nonpartisan elections last year,'' said William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director.
 Regarding administrative law judges, who adjudicate matters like traffic tickets and other summonses, the mayor wants to require them to abide by a uniform code of professional conduct, a requirement that many other judges are subject to. 
 The city may also seek to create a coordinator of administrative judges to oversee the 333 judges in tribunals around the city and throughout many municipal agencies. 
 The charter commission also made proposals last year regarding the rules that the city follows when it buys goods and services. But since then, the city has adopted almost a dozen so-called procurement reforms, and a review of that area may be more limited this year. 
 One main task of the commission, which will have roughly 10 members, city officials said, would be to study the advantages of codifying budget practices imposed by the state after the city nearly went bankrupt in the 1970's. As part of the state's financial bailout in 1975, Albany required the city, whose bookkeeping practices were widely recognized as a disgrace, to eliminate its back-of-the-envelope jottings and adopt a more formal and transparent system. 
 The state's Financial Control Board, created to manage the city's financial crisis, required the city to budget in accordance with broadly accepted accounting principles, present a four-year financial plan every year and be audited annually by an independent examiner.
 When the board's financial control period ends in 2008, the requirement to maintain those standards also ceases. But Mr. Bloomberg and several people who served on the charter commission last year believe that making those rules permanent would help keep the city from sliding back into mismanagement. 
 The changes the commission is planning to pursue are unlikely to attract much controversy and may likely draw support from groups who care about such matters. 
 ''The city has had a model budget process because of the state law,'' said Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission. ''It seems the city leaders recognize that these requirements are critical in keeping its fiscal house in order.'' 
 If the mayor's commission brings these issues to the voters, it would ostensibly be the least controversial charter proposal since he took office.
 Mr. Bloomberg made the push for nonpartisan elections the first substantial proposal of his campaign. He first formed a city commission to recommend the change in 2002. 
 That year the commission decided not to put the question before the voters. Instead it asked New Yorkers to vote on an amendment, backed by Mr. Bloomberg, that called for holding a special election 60 or 90 days after a mayor dies or becomes unable to serve, and to transfer responsibility for presiding over City Council meetings from the public advocate to the Council speaker. Both amendments passed.
 The mayor asked the commission last year to put nonpartisan elections before voters, and spent at least $2 million of his fortune on campaign mailings and prerecorded telephone calls urging voters to approve the proposal. It was roundly rejected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JUDGES (89%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (89%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (88%); LEGAL ETHICS (88%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (88%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ETHICS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AUDITS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ACCOUNTING (60%) City Charters; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Courts; Judges

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



261 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Stiff Upper Lip Is Being Twisted Into a Snarl

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, July 12 

 BODY:
Once Britons wore their stoicism on their sleeves, acting almost as if they would rather die than complain. ''For my own sake I do not regret this journey,'' the great failed explorer Capt. Robert Falcon Scott wrote in the journal found beside his frozen corpse in Antarctica in 1912, ''which has shown that Englishmen can endure hardships, help one another, and meet death with as great a fortitude as ever in the past.''
 But there is a growing sense that the famous British habit of stoutly taking it on the chin is going the way of the farthing, the gentleman in the bowler hat and the empire. Just as in the United States, whose citizens have never been shy about sticking up for themselves, complaining is becoming a way of life in Britain.
 ''There seems to be a general acceptance that there is something going on in society which is really eating away at personal responsibility,'' said David Hooker, director of claims at Norwich Union, one of Britain's largest insurers. ''It seems now that anything that happens to you in your life, someone else has got to take the blame.'' 
 That is certainly the case in Manchester, Britain's third-largest city, which last year spent $:2.5 million, or $4.6 million, defending itself against American-style personal-injury lawsuits. 
 ''The philosophy used to be that you would take things in your own hands and deal with them in your own way,'' said Paul Murphy, a member of the City Council. ''You'd stand in the queue -- that was the British way.'' Now, he said, would-be litigants take photographs of sidewalks undergoing repairs and then make trip-and-fall claims against the city -- nearly 90 percent of which end up being dismissed as spurious.
 Much of the new ''compensation culture,'' as it is disparagingly called in the populist tabloids, has to do with the introduction, in 2000, of a ''no win, no fee'' payment structure, similar to that in the United States, in personal-injury cases. But the change is also in attitudes. 
 Britons used to revere stiff-upper-lip figures like Lord Uxbridge, who, hit by a cannonball at Waterloo, is said to have remarked to the Duke of Wellington, ''By God, sir, I've lost my leg'' -- and then, it was said, buried it with full military honors. Now, the new heroes are moody celebrities like the soccer star David Beckham.
 Rather than suffer in silence when he was hit above the eye by a soccer shoe in a locker-room fracas in 2003, he pulled his hair back in a girly hair band and flaunted his wound. More recently, he blamed Real Madrid, the team that pays him a reported 5.5 million euros a year, for his poor performance in the European Cup soccer tournament, saying it failed to train him properly. 
 ''The sense of externalizing responsibility is very powerful, and it's being encouraged in a lot of ways,'' said Frank Furedi, a professor of sociology at the University of Kent and a specialist in litigation in British society. He said his university was being sued by a student who, having been caught plagiarizing, contended that he had been doing so for three years and that his teachers were at fault for failing to catch him sooner.
 ''There's a continuous incitement to go down this particular road,'' Mr. Furedi said. ''If you don't blame someone else, they think you're bizarre.''
 Mr. Furedi says the new attitude dates from the 1980's, when Margaret Thatcher, then the prime minister, tried to wean the country from the welfare state by privatizing government services, introducing consumers' charters and promoting the idea of Britons as clients rather than as citizens. 
 ''At the same time, it became more fashionable to achieve in the courts what you couldn't do in politics,'' Mr. Furedi said. ''We've pretty much achieved in 20 years what took the United States 50 years.''
 The result is a society where people are more likely to ask, ''What can you do for me?'' than, ''What can I do for you?'' In fact, in a recent survey, 96 percent of Britons who responded said people were more likely to claim compensation for injury today than they were 10 years ago.
 ''One of the things that people said was that the community spirit and the idea of the stiff upper lip was decreasing at the same rate as individualism and greed were increasing,'' said Mr. Hooker of Norwich Union, which commissioned the study.
 But one person's outrageous lawsuit can be another's justified assertion of rights. Consumer advocates say that the trend is a welcome exercise in self-assertiveness by a nation that used to be too meek. 
 ''We used to say, 'Don't rock the boat,' but people are more confident now,'' Janice Allen, a spokeswoman for the National Consumer Council, an advocacy group, said in an interview. ''The stiff upper lip -- that is a day that has gone now. People are much less deferential than they were 50 years ago and less prepared to put up with poor service.''
 Colin Ettinger, president of the Association of Personal Injury Lawyers, scoffed at a notion that Britain was awash in frivolous American-style lawsuits. A recent report, he said, concluded that just two-thirds of motorists, and one-third of workers, filed complaints after accidents. Although there have been steady increases in these complaints in recent years, he said, government statistics show that claims in some areas actually decreased over the last year. 
 As far as there is a cultural shift toward complaining, he said it was a phenomenon of the younger, more assertive generations. ''It's not a bad thing if people do question,'' he said. ''Everybody needs to be accountable.''
 The effect of the change on British society is hard to quantify, in part because the government did not keep comprehensive records of claims before 2000 and because most cases are dropped before a formal complaint is made. But according to a 2002 report by the Institute of Actuaries, $:10 billion, or $18.6 billion, in compensation is paid out annually. The Local Government Association, which represents councils across England and Wales, said 68 percent of its member councils had experienced increases in tenuous claims since 2000.
 The National Health Service recently reported that its 2002 bill for clinical negligence claims, including legal costs and settlements, was $:466 million, or $867 million, compared with $:1 million in 1974, or $:6.3 million adjusted for inflation. In March 2003, the estimated value of all outstanding claims against the health service was nearly $:6 billion.
 The threat of lawsuits has driven up insurance premiums and caused institutions like schools and local governments to alter the way they go about their business. 
 Some schools have canceled sports like rugby and soccer; others have closed playgrounds. Still others have abolished recess altogether, said Martin Ward, deputy general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, which represents principals and other secondary-school officials.
 Newspapers delight in publishing outrageous examples of how the compensation culture is said to be ruining childhood pastimes. Some schools, for instance, have banished as too dangerous the traditional game of conkers, in which players stage fights with chestnuts tied to strings.
 ''It's now increasingly difficult to contemplate doing anything that might in any sense be deemed dangerous,'' Mr. Ward said, and parents and students are becoming more likely to blame the schools for students' failings. ''There are an increasing number of instances where children are claiming, for instance, that they've been hit by teachers, when in fact they're just upset at being disciplined,'' he said.
 ''Back in the 1970's, at a parents' evening, if you said, 'John's doing rather well, but perhaps he could work a little harder,' Dad would support the system, as it were,'' he added. ''Now if you say something like that, you're likely to get the reaction: 'It must be your fault. What are you going to do about it?'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Britons have long admired such stoics as Robert Falcon Scott, standing in the center with members of his ill-fated 1912 expedition to the South Pole. But moody stars like David Beckham, below, are the new heroes. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Alex Livesey/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PERSONAL INJURY (87%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (75%); PERSONAL INJURY LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); TRENDS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); INSURANCE (67%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); SOCCER (60%) Suits and Litigation; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (71%) Sarah Lyall

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); ANTARCTICA (73%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



262 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Militant in Iraq Remains A Shadowy Mystery to U.S.
According to American officials, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is now the biggest terrorist threat in Iraq, accused of orchestrating guerrilla attacks, suicide bombings, kidnappings and beheadings. American forces are stepping up airstrikes aimed at him and have raised the bounty on him. But for all that, Mr. Zarqawi remains a phantom, with little known about his whereabouts or his operations. A8

Among the passages deleted from the public version of the Senate Intelligence Committee report on Iraq is a detailed assessment that casts doubt on the credibility of an Iraqi defector whose claims about Iraq's mobile biological weapons laboratories have been discredited, according to government officials. A9

The Philippine government appeared to concede to a demand by Iraqi insurgents to pull its small contingent of troops out of Iraq in exchange for sparing the life of a Filipino hostage. A9

Political Proposal in Israel
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon invited his political rival -- and longtime friend -- Shimon Peres to bring his left-leaning Labor Party into the faltering government coalition. The move would bolster Mr. Sharon's efforts to withdraw Israeli soldiers and settlers from the Gaza Strip. A4

Mosque Raided in Germany
Police officers raided a mosque in Frankfurt after a 9-year-old girl told one of her teachers that children had been shown violent videos calling for ''a holy war against unbelievers,'' a spokesman for the Frankfurt prosecutor said. A member of the executive board of the mosque said the raid was an insulting overreaction to an unconfirmed allegation. A3

Fighting a Brain Drain in Africa
Physicians for Human Rights, a nonprofit advocacy group, says in a report to be released Thursday that a brain drain of nurses, doctors and pharmacists from Africa is further crippling the already fragile health systems there just as they are struggling with AIDS . The group also proposes an array of measures to slow the medical migration, including having wealthy nations reimburse African countries. A7

NATIONAL A12-17

Bush Defends Iraq Invasion Despite Missing Weapons
President Bush vigorously defended his foreign policies against criticism that the war against Iraq was not adequately justified, saying the invasion was the right thing to do even though no banned weapons had been found there. A1

Kerry Appeals to Core Groups
Senator John Kerry made a multipronged pitch to several of his Democratic Party's critical constituency groups with a ''unity breakfast'' for minorities, a women's fund-raiser, and a $3 million advertising blitz in Hispanic and African-American media outlets. A16

Networks' Convention Plan Set
ABC and CBS said they planned to broadcast three hours each of the Democratic and Republican conventions in prime time, matching a schedule NBC had announced. A16

Food Pyramid to Be Revisited
The Department of Agriculture announced plans to revisit the Food Guide Pyramid, developed to help Americans use dietary guidelines to eat healthfully. A14

Democrats Schedule a Reagan
Ron Reagan, the son of former President Ronald Reagan, said he would speak in support of stem cell research at the Democratic national convention this month. A16

Cholesterol Levels Lowered
Federal health officials reduced the desired levels of cholesterol for Americans who are at moderate to high risk for heart disease. A1

Paper Apologizes for Coverage
In a front-page expose, the Herald-Ledger in Lexington, Ky., apologized for its poor coverage of the civil rights movement, saying previous managers had purposefully tried ''to play down the movement.'' A1

EDUCATION

Teacher Test Wrongly Scored
Mistakes in the scoring of an examination that 18 states use in licensing teachers caused more than 4,000 who should have passed it to fail, the Educational Testing Service said. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Tentative Agreement Averts Broadway Strike
With much of Broadway holding its breath, the stage actors' and managers' union and Broadway's producers brokered a tentative agreement to avert the industry's second strike in 16 months, officials from both sides said. B1

Indictment in Hacking Case
A Westchester County man illegally infiltrated an internal computer at Verizon more than 100 times this year, forcing the company to spend at least $120,000 to retool its security system, prosecutors charged in a federal indictment. B4

Citigroup to Move Employees
Citigroup is moving more than 1,000 employees to New Jersey from Lower Manhattan, according to government officials and real estate executives. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B7

OBITUARIES B8

ARTS E1-8

The Box Office and America
The two most surprising hit movies of 2004 -- Michael Moore's Bush-bashing documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' and Mel Gibson's religious epic ''The Passion of the Christ'' -- offer an intriguing opportunity to examine the polarities among moviegoing Americans. E1

What is Domination?
''Jeopardy!'' is being held hostage by a 30-year-old software engineer from Salt Lake City with an unprecedented 29-day winning streak. Monday, when Ken Jennings was poised to hit the $1 million mark, he was featured on ''Today'' and presented David Letterman's Top 10 list. Whether viewers love him or love to hate him, his remarkable performance has made this staid game show one of the hottest television topics of the summer. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Morgan Stanley Settles Suit
Morgan Stanley agreed to pay $54 million to settle a sex discrimination case rather than stand trial on the federal government's accusation that it denied equal pay and promotions to women in a division of its investment bank. The settlement is the second largest the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has reached with a company it sued. A1

Investor Seeks to Buy MCI
Leucadia National Corp., the New York-based investment group, is seeking permission from regulators to buy a controlling stake in MCI, the troubled telecommunications company that emerged from bankruptcy in April. C1

JetBlue to Cut Fares
JetBlue Airways plans to announce that it will cut its prices by as much as half on one million seats between Sept. 7 and mid-December, the latest move in an aggressive round of fare sales by the low-cost carriers that threatens to wipe out any chance of profits for the airline industry in the autumn. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Lemons in a row; the Foster affair; Machiavelli lives in Trenton; Serge Schmemann on how journalists' deaths make it harder to excuse Putin's excesses.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (87%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); PHARMACISTS (67%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (64%); AIDS & HIV (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); NUTRITION (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SHIMON PERES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



263 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Lemons in a Row

 BODY:
Slot machines are fast becoming America's preferred way to tax the poor. Politicians from a growing number of states have decided that slots can help pay education costs or stave off tax increases. But it's a fool's bargain. Slot machines, as any experienced gambler can tell you, are a sucker's game. While they are a harmless amusement for many, their increasing accessibility is draining money away from too many people who cannot afford it. 
 The check-cashing services and A.T.M.'s located next to so many slots are mute testimony to the inability of many gamblers to bet only what they can afford. And yet the states that are relying more on gambling are playing carnival barker, urging even the poor to step right up and risk more.
 Undoubtedly calculating that these are tomorrow's problems, politicians from coast to coast are reaching for the gambling jackpots of today. From two states that allowed gambling in the late 1980's -- Nevada and New Jersey -- there are now 30 that allow or plan to allow gambling to help pay local costs. And the big moneymaker is the once-lowly slot machine.
 There are about 900,000 slots now, according to Christiansen Capital Advisors, a company that tallies gambling data. Slot machines are a $30-billion-a-year business and earn at least $7 of every $10 in casino revenue.
 Many experts have spent a lot of time making these machines entertaining and seductive. They have earned a deserved reputation in the trade as the ''crack cocaine of gambling'' or, as one columnist wrote, ''a tax on the easily duped.'' The machines are mathematically rigged to take your money and psychologically designed to help turn you into a gambling addict.
 That addiction is especially acute these days if you are a state politician. Take Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who criticized American Indian casinos in last year's campaign but recently approved a slew of new slot machines to get a $1 billion cut for the state. Under the new agreements, five tribes can operate as many slots as the market will bear. 
 In New York, Gov. George Pataki has been advertising ''racinos,'' or racetrack gambling parlors, as a cheap way to finance rising education costs. The four racinos that are currently open have taken in about $72 million, with only $44 million making it past the racetrack to the state's schools.
 Mr. Pataki's gambling gizmos look a lot like slot machines. They burble, clang and whistle like slot machines. And yet the governor and the gambling crowd insist that, heavens no, they are not slot machines. They are ''video lottery terminals'' that are plugged into the state lottery system. The reason for this ruse is simple. Slot machines are banned by the State Constitution. The lottery is not.
 Perhaps the sleaziest new deal, however, is in Pennsylvania, where Gov. Edward Rendell and the Legislature have just agreed to allow as many as 61,000 slot machines at an estimated 14 locations across the state. The state's legislators argue that the slots will ward off economic depression and lower real estate taxes by eventually taking in about $1 billion a year. Tucked into the law was also a gift to the legislators who passed it. Pennsylvania will allow its lawmakers and other public officials to own up to 1 percent of any new slot-machine venture. At least voters there will know who is going to come out a winner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CASINOS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); LOTTERIES (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); ETHICS (68%); COCAINE (64%); WRITERS (63%); APPROVALS (50%) Gambling; Editorials; Slot Machines; Indians, American; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Ethics; Casinos; Gambling; States (US)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



264 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Journalists' Deaths Make It Harder to Excuse Putin's Excesses

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
On Friday night, I got a call from Moscow: my friend Paul Klebnikov, the editor in chief of Forbes Russia, a Russian version of the American business magazine, had been fatally shot as he left work. Paul's wife, Musa, was in Italy with their three children and had just spoken to him on the phone before he was shot. She was heartbreakingly brave the next day. Please gather articles about her husband, she asked, for his boys.
 Then the anger rose. I am among those former Moscow correspondents, and those people of Russian descent, who have tried to stay optimistic about today's Russia and President Vladimir Putin, even in the face of all the distressing reports about Chechnya, the Yukos oil company, the media clampdown and the swelling powers of the Kremlin. You have to remember where they were a scant 15 years ago, I would argue: Mr. Putin has to restore control over the government and economy, and the oligarchs have to be reined in. 
 It will be far harder to argue this, now that someone has pumped four bullets into a journalist who earnestly thought that he could help Russia make it by writing the truth about its dark underside. It's tough to continue pretending that Russia is just in transition, struggling to emerge from Communism's rubble. Twenty journalists have now been assassinated in Russia for their work; 14 since Mr. Putin became president. Not one of the murders has been solved.
 Three hours before Paul, who was 41, was gunned down, the last decent political program in Russia had its final broadcast. Savik Shuster's weekly program, ''Svoboda Slova'' -- ''Freedom of Speech'' -- was yanked off NTV, the station that Mr. Putin has been forcibly bringing under state control, by the newly installed general director. The ''we're reviewing the programming'' stuff rings hollow. Mr. Shuster had consistently high ratings, and they went off the charts when he held political debates during the election campaign for Parliament. The last show was about Russia's banking crisis. The week before that, a program about corporate responsibility was NTV's top-rated show.
 I understand that in his last minutes, Paul said he had no idea who would have taken out a contract on his life. He had written books and articles about sleazy figures, and under his supervision, Forbes Russia had published a list of the 100 richest people in the country -- most of whom would have serious problems explaining how they got their billions.
 Friends worried about him, especially when his book on the exiled oligarch Boris Berezovsky came out. But he was not afraid. He was convinced that a Western journalist saying the truth in Russia would be respected. I avidly hope that those who ordered his killing are caught. I hope the trial will be public.
 But in the end, the perpetrators are not the issue: it is the cruel confirmation that the law and an appreciation of freedom have not taken hold in Russia. It is the evidence that murder is still perceived as a normal and safe way of settling scores and amassing wealth, and that the Kremlin is not really interested in doing anything about it.
 A free press is not the enemy, nor is the West. Paul Klebnikov wrote about oligarchs and crime because he believed, almost naively, that Russia really wanted to become normal, that its president really wanted to know what was wrong. Many others, like Paul, have wanted to help. But when power tramples on institutions that are at the heart of a free society, we begin to wonder whether we can, or whether we should. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (86%); MURDER (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media; Murders and Attempted Murders

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Forbes Russia (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BORIS BEREZOVSKY (58%) Serge Schmemann; Paul Klebnikov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



265 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Our Booming Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Bye-Bye, Bush Boom'' (column, July 6), Paul Krugman claims that ''jobs are still very scarce, with little relief in sight.'' 
 But the data show exactly the opposite. 
 More Americans are working today than ever before, and the economy is larger than ever before and growing at the fastest pace since President Reagan's second term.
 The employment-population ratio, which Mr. Krugman cites as evidence for his views of a weak economy, has been in decline since early 2000, when President Clinton was still in office. 
 Not surprisingly, this coincides with many of the signs of recession that appeared in the final year of Mr. Clinton's term. 
 Furthermore, the graying of America leads to a natural decline in the fraction of the population in the work force. This is a demographic trend of an aging population, not an economic phenomenon.
 Mr. Krugman goes on to suggest that higher tax burdens, more government spending and more redistribution of incomes are the keys to a stronger economy. Respectfully, I disagree. 
 Ultimately, the voters will decide. I believe they will affirm that lower taxes on America's workers result in stronger economic growth.

BILL THOMAS
Chairman
House Ways and Means Committee
Washington, July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGING TRENDS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); AGING (52%) Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Bill (Rep) Thomas; Paul Krugman; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004



266 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Soaring Oil Prices, but No New Boom in Houston

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 13 

 BODY:
As soaring energy prices over the last year have produced bonanzas in the world's oil patches, many people in Houston, which has the largest concentration of energy companies anywhere, are perplexed. In a departure from past oil booms, this one is having an unusually subdued effect here. 
 Signs of Houston's sluggish response to high oil prices are evident throughout the city, with disappointing indicators for real estate, job creation, corporate philanthropy and even auto sales -- an oddity in a spread-out metropolitan region where conspicuous gasoline consumption is regarded by some as a birthright. 
 ''It's not like the old days when hiring and purchasing automatically went up with the price of oil,'' said Walter Wainwright, president of the Houston Automobile Dealers Association. Car sales declined 6 percent in the first half of 2004 compared with a year earlier. ''Frankly, the last few months have been disappointing when you think we should be going gangbusters,'' Mr. Wainwright said. 
 The tepid effect of elevated energy prices on Houston's economy in recent months comes even as energy companies continue migrating to the city. For example, Citgo, the American subsidiary of Venezuela's national oil company, recently announced that it was moving its headquarters to Houston from Tulsa, Okla. Somewhat similarly, ChevronTexaco agreed to acquire and occupy one of Enron's empty towers -- a move that would bring more than 500 jobs here from Northern California and New Orleans.
 But in spite of such developments, Houston's downtown -- where dozens of glistening towers were built during previous growth spurts -- remains crestfallen. Even with the introduction of a light-rail system intended to attract business, it is a far cry from the bustling late 1990's, before the collapse of Enron and difficulties at big competitors like Dynegy and the El Paso Corporation. 
 In the first quarter, Houston had the greatest increase in downtown office vacancy rates of any large city in the country, climbing to 24 percent from 19.5 percent, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 Empty skyscrapers are only part of the listlessness that continues to define parts of the city's economy. The rapid increase in property values on the East and West Coasts has not been mirrored in Houston, where the median home price is $140,000, or about the national average, after climbing by a modest 3 percent last year, according to Richard Murray, a professor of political science at the University of Houston.
 There are several reasons Houston is not enjoying a return to the days of the 1970's, when it was the nation's fastest-growing metropolitan area, flush with oil money and a backdrop for stories about roughnecks in the big city. A leading reason is the evolution in the oil business in Texas and around the world that has concentrated deal making and specialized research in Houston while large, labor-intensive exploration projects moved elsewhere.
 The prolific oil wells of Texas, especially the East Texas gushers that were the basis for Houston's emergence as an oil center a century ago, have been steadily depleted over the last 25 years. Daily production statewide is now about 360,000 barrels a day, or nearly a third of what it was in 1978, the last year output surpassed a million barrels a day, according to the Texas Railroad Commission, which oversees the oil and gas industry in the state.
 Lower oil production translates into lower royalties, and also results in fewer service jobs in Texas and other oil-producing states like New Mexico, Louisiana and Oklahoma. Despite prices that have nearly quadrupled over the last five years, the number of rigs actively exploring for oil and natural gas across the country is just 1,201 compared with a peak of 4,530 in 1981.
 The domestic rig count, tallied by Baker Hughes, was followed reverently in Houston two decades ago -- before the economy became less dependent on the energy industry. More than 80 percent of Houston's economy was related to energy in the early 1980's, compared with about 50 percent today, as large companies in areas including medical care, waste management, computer software and transportation emerged from a severe economic downturn.
 Still, the energy industry continues to exert great influence. Houston is the headquarters city of 44 of the nation's 200 largest publicly traded oil and gas producers and has more than a third of American jobs associated with oil extraction and the manufacturing of oil field machinery. Two of the four largest refineries in the United States are in Houston, and 14 of the top 20 natural gas transmission companies have corporate or division headquarters here, according to municipal figures.
 But even in some energy-related industries, high prices for oil and natural gas have been a mixed blessing. For instance, gas prices -- which increased over the last two years, partly as a result of more expensive oil -- have eroded profit at chemicals producers in Texas that depend on gas to power their operations. 
 ''Higher natural gas prices are strangling our ability to compete internationally,'' said Peter R. Huntsman, chief executive of the Huntsman Companies, a large producer of chemical products in Houston.
 Consolidation among leading oil companies, through deals that formed Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco and BP, has also led to an emphasis on large-scale oil and gas exploration projects abroad -- in countries including Angola, Qatar, Kazakhstan and Russia -- often at the expense of smaller drilling ventures in Texas and other states. 
 These mergers also changed corporate philanthropy in Houston. 
 At the Houston Ballet, for instance, fund-raisers have been told by donors at large energy companies that they are seeking to spread their money more evenly between projects in Houston and those in developing countries where operations have grown more extensive. Partly as a result, contributions from oil and gas producers declined 42 percent in the 12 months ended in June compared with a year earlier, according to Randy Penn, the ballet's director of institutional giving.
 ''It's exactly the opposite of what we hoped for when we saw oil going up,'' Mr. Penn said. 
 Much of the planning and financing of international ventures, of course, is still being carried out here. Energy companies looking for worldwide opportunities are frequently created here, like Far East Energy, a concern based in Houston but with a business focused entirely on producing natural gas in China. 
 Yet while the executive suites of companies are brimming with activity, many of the service jobs related to exploration are filled by people in other countries.
 In the meantime, smaller, independent Houston-based companies that produce oil domestically have been unusually cautious about investing in exploration projects despite the increase in crude oil prices.
 Land-based drilling has increased only marginally in recent weeks, and offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico briefly rose before falling back to levels of the last drilling downturn in 2001, according to a June report by the Houston branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
 Executives and analysts attribute the reluctance to a fear that oil prices might crash, as they did in the mid-1980's and the late 90's, when they briefly fell to nearly $10 a barrel. But there is also tighter financing for high-risk ventures, a lingering effect of the wariness in the credit markets after Enron's collapse. 
 Despite such hesitancy, some people in Houston say that it is only a matter of time before higher energy prices start benefiting the local economy. 
 For instance, the monthly survey of purchasing managers in Houston suggests that the economy is expanding, even after the index unexpectedly declined to 60.5 in June from 62.9 the month before. The office of Mayor Bill White, in an economic assessment released at the end of June, said job growth and a recent increase in sales tax receipts were contributing to a recovery.
 And Timothy Hopper, an economist with the Houston branch of the Dallas Fed, said he expected economic activity to pick up before the end of the year, especially as energy companies continue to concentrate their administrative operations in Houston. He cited 1.3 percent growth in nonagricultural employment in the first four months of 2004, a rate that would lead to 27,000 new jobs if the pace continues through the year.
 That would help bring unemployment down to 6 percent from the 7 percent level registered at the end of last year, in line with declines in many places nationwide. 
 Other analysts say it might be a blessing in disguise if Houston avoided a boom this time around, if only to also avoid a repeat of the painful bust of the 1980's, which erased thousands of oil-related jobs from the city. As Houston's economy has diversified over the last 20 years, its ethnic makeup also evolved, with the number of whites dropping 6 percent in the 1990's as the number of Latinos grew 74 percent and the Asian population increased 76 percent. 
 That growth has positioned Houston to compete internationally across a variety of industries, even if the energy business remains at the pinnacle of the economy, transformed into a ''knowledge industry'' without the blue-collar jobs it was associated with in the past, said Stephen Klineberg, professor of sociology at Rice University. 
 Economic forecasters might take a similar view from looking at the evolution of bumper stickers here. In the fast-growing 1970's, one sticker encouraging motorists to use more gasoline read, ''Drive Faster, Freeze a Yankee.'' A few years into the 1980's, after oil prices had collapsed, another read, ''Please, God, Send Us One More Boom.''
 These days, bumper-sticker entrepreneurs might design one that says, ''Forward, but in First Gear,'' said Mr. Murray, the University of Houston political scientist.
 ''We've gone from being a magnet for wildcatters and risk takers to a place for conservative M.B.A. types with green eyeshades,'' he said, citing the modest exploration budgets at many of Houston's oil companies. ''That might be a healthy evolution.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about the subdued effect of rising energy prices on Houston misstated the daily oil production of Texas. It is about 1.35 million barrels a day, according to the Oil and Gas Journal, not 360,000.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barges passing refineries in the Houston Ship Channel. A scaled-back oil industry remains a force in Texas. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)(pg. C3)
 (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); TRENDS (74%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); CITIES (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); URBANIZATION (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Real Estate; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Philanthropy; Automobiles; Sales

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (84%); DYNEGY INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); CHEVRON CORP (54%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (58%); CVX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



267 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Narrows as Exports and Imports Rise to Records

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The trade deficit in the United States narrowed in May for the first time in six months as exports surged to a record, led by aircraft, engines and other capital goods, a government report released yesterday showed. Imports were also the highest ever.
 The $46 billion gap in goods and services trade followed a record shortfall of $48.1 billion in April, the Commerce Department said. The 4.5 percent reduction in the deficit in May was the largest since October 2002. 
 Economists had expected the deficit to remain at the $48.3 billion reported for April, according to the median estimate of 65 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Exports rose 2.9 percent as the dollar dropped against the euro and yen, making American goods less expensive to sell abroad. American companies are increasing overseas sales, aided by Japan's recovery and China's demand for raw materials and other products.
 May's trade deficit with Japan narrowed to $5.5 billion, from $6.4 billion. 
 The trade gap with China widened to $12.1 billion, from $12 billion, with exports to China rising to $2.9 billion, from $2.7 billion. 
 The deficit with Canada, the largest United States trading partner, narrowed to $4.8 billion, from $5.6 billion. The gap with Mexico widened to $3.8 billion, from $3.2 billion.
 The dollar had its biggest gain against the euro in two weeks after the trade report, strengthening to $1.2327 a euro, from $1.2404 Monday. 
 The trade deficit narrowed even more when adjusted for higher prices. The inflation-adjusted gap was $50.2 billion in May, the smallest since November and down from $53.5 billion a month earlier.
 The overall trade deficit so far this year is still larger than it was in the first five months of 2003. Through May, the deficit was $231 billion, compared with $208.7 billion a year earlier. Last year, the deficit reached a record $496.5 billion.
 Exports rose 2.9 percent, to $97.1 billion, in May, the biggest gain since a 3.1 percent gain in March, the Commerce Department's report showed. Foreign businesses bought $28.8 billion worth of capital goods from the United States, a 6.3 percent increase.
 Imports rose 0.4 percent for the month, to $143.1 billion, led by automobiles and industrial supplies, including oil. The value of oil imports rose in May to $10.5 billion, from $9.7 billion, the earlier month. The price of oil was $33.12 a barrel, up from $31. The May deficit with the nations in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was a record $5.6 billion.
 ''Strong U.S. growth is being reinforced by generally strong economies around the world,'' said Larry Kantor, head of economics and market strategy at Barclays Capital in New York. United States gross domestic product is forecast to grow 4.5 percent this year, according to the most recent survey of economists by Bloomberg News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EURO (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); US DOLLAR (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%) Japan; China; Japan; Canada; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



268 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: $924 Million in Aid for Haiti To Be Sought From Donors

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
Organizers of an international donors conference for Haiti next week said they hoped to raise $924 million to jump-start its ravaged economy and lay the foundation for a return to democratic rule.
 The proposal, which is backed by the World Bank and the United Nations, identifies four main areas for financing: promoting security and national dialogue; budgeting and procurement; economic recovery; and basic services. It envisions the quick creation of 31,000 temporary jobs -- and 500,000 over two years -- and monitoring by Haitians outside government and by foreign donors. 
 The call to donors comes 10 years after the United States invaded Haiti, restored its elected president and led an international relief effort that raised an estimated $2.6 billion. This time around, donors say, they will require better oversight of spending and proof of results and will restrain an impulse to turn off the aid spigot after the immediate crisis passes.
 The conference's organizers, which also include the European Commission and the Inter-American Development Bank, said they hoped to take advantage of a unique moment, when Haiti is in the hands of caretaker technocrats who have pledged not to run as candidates in the next presidential elections.
 The Haitian leaders raced to put together their financing request, which is also a plan of government for the period before a new president is seated in February 2006. The interim prime minister, Gerard Latortue, who was appointed in March by a council of elders after the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, hammered out the proposal with colleagues amid garbage-strewn streets, electricity failures and simmering rebel violence. Some representatives of the donor agencies said they were impressed by the transition leaders, and they voiced determination that the relief effort would not be dragged down by corruption, political intractability and international impatience, as in the past.
 ''There is a fundamental belief that there is a two-year window of opportunity now to put in place some economic reforms, some political reforms, some institutional reforms that will pave the way for Haiti's recovery,'' said Caroline Anstey, the country director for the Caribbean at the World Bank.
 Ms. Anstey said there was plenty of blame to go around for the failure to achieve meaningful results in the last decade. Aid from abroad declined steadily over the decade, from a high of $611 million in 1995 to a low of $136 million in 2002. The Bush administration cut off most of its aid to Haiti in 2000, when Haiti's government deadlocked with parliamentary leaders over disputed elections.
 ''The donors failed to coordinate their activities, failed to look at a strategic overall plan, and really became too involved with putting their flags on their own pet projects,'' Ms. Anstey said. ''The government, for its part, didn't put in place the systems for ensuring transparency and monitoring.'' Adolfo Franco, the Latin America director at the United States Agency for International Development, said the transition leaders had quieted concerns about what he said was rampant corruption. 
 The United States, which provides the most aid to Haiti of any nation, expects to continue its assistance, Mr. Franco said. ''We're in this for the long haul, as long as we have the same commitment from our Haitian partners,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Aid to Haiti''External aid from international organizations and donor countries, in millions.Graph tracks aid from 1995-2002.(Years shown are fiscal years, ending in September)(Sources by Interim Cooperation Framework, Republic of Haiti)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); POWER FAILURES (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); CORRUPTION (62%); TRENDS (62%) Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Commission; European Union; Inter-American Development Bank ; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (69%)

PERSON: Christopher Marquis

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



269 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Lakewood Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: 50 Years Later, a Still-Proud Suburb Is Starting to Fray

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LAKEWOOD, Calif., July 8 

 BODY:
This quintessential cookie-cutter suburb of Los Angeles, the Left Coast Levittown, celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. It is beginning to show its age.
 Lakewood, a city of 80,000 residents that arose from bean and sugar beet fields in the early 1950's, was built to be the workingman's paradise, a place where returning G.I.'s and Douglas Aircraft Company workers could buy an 800-square-foot, two-bedroom home for $7,575, or $595 down and $43 a month. A three-bedroom, 1,100-square-foot home went for $8,525. The developers built and sold 17,500 of those homes in an astonishing 33 months. 
 Those little boxes now sell for more than $300,000 and most of them are occupied by a retiree or a family with two incomes to pay the mortgage. The plumb-line straight streets and uniform-height trees are still well tended, but Lakewood's scruffier neighbors are beginning to press in on the proud little city's borders, bringing gang crime, traffic congestion and some of the sense of unchecked suburban sprawl that infects the Los Angeles Basin.
 A city that was built all at once and inhabited all at once wears out all at once. Streets, sewers, sidewalks, commercial buildings and schools all need repair or updating, but the city does not have enough money to do all the work at once.
 Despite the problems, Lakewood, 25 miles southeast of Los Angeles, somehow remains a place apart from all that surrounds it, a community with a sense of itself, a self-contained suburb that pretends to be nothing more.
 ''It's a broken utopia, but it's not a ruined utopia,'' said Donald J. Waldie, a lifelong Lakewood resident, an author and a full-time publicist for the city. ''It's an aging, mass-produced, working-class suburb that hasn't slid into crisis.''
 Mr. Waldie is part of what sets Lakewood apart from its neighbors. No other Southern California city has such a singer of the subdivision, such a poet of the plat.
 He says that greater Los Angeles has been for generations a city without a core, an atomized collection of transient people without a defining story or a sense of place. That has been at the root of efforts by communities in the 4,084 square miles of Los Angeles County --bigger than Delaware and Rhode Island combined -- to wall themselves off and create self-governing places of their own. Lakewood, in 1954, was one of the first to actually do so.
 ''The story of place-making in Southern California is often the story of regret,'' Mr. Waldie said. ''Lakewood is not part of that story. It's a place of aspiration for a new class of working-class residents, and they are largely people of color. People leaving the ghetto and barrio and other war-torn places of the world come here to buy their first houses, even though the price of entry now is over $300,000.''
 When Lakewood was built, its residents were, in Mr. Waldie's words, ''99.99 percent white,'' a result of self-selection and steering by salesmen. But over the past 20 years, the population has come to resemble more closely that of the ethnically diverse region around it. Today, 52 percent of the people of Lakewood are white, many of them original residents. The Hispanic population has doubled since 1980, to 22.8 percent; Asians and Pacific Islanders make up 14 percent of the population, while African-Americans account for 7 percent.
 Lakewood, in the southeastern corner of Los Angeles County, is at the epicenter of one of the most diverse areas of the country. Within five miles of Lakewood City Hall, Mr. Waldie said, more than 40 languages are spoken.
 Those ethnic and racial enclaves generate conflicts, including extensive gang activity. Last week, Asian and African-American gang members engaged in a shootout at a bowling alley that left several people wounded. Sheriff's deputies said the gangs were from outside the city.
 Lakewood's one brush with notoriety came in 1993, with the revelation that 20 to 30 teenage boys calling themselves the Spur Posse were awarding each other points for having sex with young girls. The scandal divided the community, with some parents chalking up the activity to hormonal high jinks, and others calling for prosecution for statutory rape and molestation. In the end, most charges were dropped, but the episode occasioned communal soul-searching and a profusion of sociological analysis.
 Some blamed the economic pressures of widespread layoffs in the aerospace industry. Some blamed raunchy music videos and movies. Others cited the ennui of the soulless suburb, an effort to find meaning, or at least diversion, in a place that offered neither.
 Mr. Waldie discounted those explanations. He blamed a pair of charismatic leaders, a group of easily led followers, and girls who succumbed to threats and a misplaced desire for popularity. Without making apologies for Lakewood, he said, it could have happened anywhere.
 Mr. Waldie, who is 55, lives in the house on Graywood Avenue that his parents bought in 1946, before the city was incorporated. He walks the mile to work at City Hall and writes books and essays about suburban life in his spare time. His book ''Holy Land: A Suburban Memoir'' was published in 1996 to critical acclaim.
 As he walked the streets one day last week, he noted one of the biggest changes he had seen as Lakewood aged and its population changed. The newly paved streets and tidy yards were empty and utterly quiet.
 ''On a summer's day in 1955 there would have been potentially 100 kids here, from babies in strollers to teenagers in loose packs, kids riding on bicycles, playing ball in the street, watched over by moms in the yards,'' he recalled. 
 ''Where is everybody?'' he asked. ''The parents are at work, the kids are at soccer camp, at summer school, at baseball clinics.''
 The theme of Lakewood's 50th anniversary celebration is ''times change, values don't.'' The developers found virtue in the sheer flatness of the topography -- the difference in elevation from one end of town to the other is four feet -- and called it a metaphor for the city's lack of pretension. The only way a resident here can look down on his neighbor, they said, was by climbing up on the roof. 
 Mr. Waldie said that was one thing about Lakewood that had not changed. ''It never lost its working-class sense of itself,'' he said, ''and never lost its working-class communitarian ethic.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Donald J. Waldie at home in Lakewood, which is marking its 50th anniversary. The city is ''a broken utopia, but it's not a ruined utopia,'' he said. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
 Lakewood, shown in 1951, was built on bean and sugar beet fields. Salesmen sold 17,500 homes in 33 months in the early 1950's. (Photo by William A. Garnett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); TRENDS (70%); WRITERS (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (66%); GANGS (66%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (57%) Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends; Suburbs ; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Crime and Criminals ; Gangs; Roads and Traffic; Life Styles

COMPANY: DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (72%)

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Lakewood (Calif); Lakewood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



270 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Strong Showing by USA Today Helps Gannett Profit Rise 9.3%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Gannett Company, the nation's largest newspaper publisher, said yesterday that second-quarter profit rose 9.3 percent, fueled partly by help-wanted ads and the biggest rise in advertising at USA Today since the first quarter of 2000.
 Net income at Gannett, which publishes 101 newspapers, was $354.4 million, or $1.30 a share, up from $324.3 million, or $1.20, during the period a year earlier. Sales rose 9.9 percent, to $1.87 billion, the company said. 
 Help-wanted ads jumped 23 percent, and national ads placed by companies like Wal-Mart Stores rose 10.4 percent, the company said. Gannett is winning more of those ads because many of its papers have little competition in the cities they serve.
 ''Gannett has 99 small-town newspapers and they are enjoying the full benefit of the economic recovery,'' said Edward Atorino, an analyst at Fulcrum Global who has a buy rating on Gannett and does not own the shares.
 Advertising revenue at USA Today, the largest newspaper by circulation in the nation, rose 15.5 percent during the quarter. USA Today increased its advertising rates by about 8 percent in January, the company said. A full-page black and white ad now costs $78,900, it said. 
 Sales from Gannett's newspapers rose 9.8 percent, to $1.66 billion, helped by a 12.3 percent gain in advertising and a 1.1 percent increase in circulation sales. The price of USA Today will rise to 75 cents from 50 cents on Sept. 7, the first increase since 1985.
 Shares of Gannett rose 99 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $82.38.
 Among the top five newspaper publishers, Gannett, based in McLean, Va., has posted the second-biggest earnings growth during the last five years, following the Tribune Company. Gannett's operating margin, or the amount it earns after covering costs like sales and production, is about 30 percent, the highest among the nation's five biggest newspaper companies.
 Gannett's earnings matched the average estimate of $1.30 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Company Reports ; Newspapers

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Gannett Co

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



271 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Discrimination on Wall St.? The Numbers Tell the Story

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
During several years of drawn-out litigation over how they treat the women they employ, Wall Street firms have adamantly disputed all contentions that they discriminate -- until the time has come to do the math.
 In a sex discrimination lawsuit that Morgan Stanley settled on Monday, as in those that Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney settled in the late 1990's, executives decided not to go public with their track records of hiring, paying and promoting women. In each case, labor lawyers said, the numbers painted a picture that would have been hard to defend.
 They show that a few years into the 21st century, Wall Street is still dominated by the white men who fill the bulk of the most powerful and highest-paying jobs in the industry. Data from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission show that men made up more than two-thirds of the officials and managers in the securities industry in 2002, even higher than the ratio in other industries. 
 The industry's own numbers look more lopsided. The Securities Industry Association says that more than half of all the employees in the securities industry are white men but, more important, white men fill about four out of five executive management positions and make up more than 70 percent of investment bankers, traders and brokers.
 Supported by figures like those, Elizabeth Grossman, who was the commission's lead trial lawyer in the Morgan Stanley case, was comfortable predicting that more complaints of sexual and racial discrimination on Wall Street will surface now that Morgan Stanley has agreed to pay $54 million to settle the commission's suit.
 That case stemmed from a 1998 complaint by a bond saleswoman, Allison K. Schieffelin, who contended that she was denied a promotion because of her sex. The firm countered that Ms. Schieffelin, who will receive at least $12 million of the payout, was disappointed about her inability to rise higher and was later fired for being insubordinate.
 ''That settlement sends a big statement that maybe she was a troublemaker, but her claim must have had merit or they wouldn't have paid so much,'' said Hydie Sumner, a broker who knows how hard big firms will fight to avoid paying out discrimination claims.
 Ms. Sumner, who worked for Merrill Lynch in San Antonio until 1997, received an award of $2.2 million from a panel of arbitrators this spring after she complained about harassment and discrimination. In ruling, the arbitrators decided that the statistical evidence proved that there had been a pattern and practice of discrimination against women in Merrill's brokerage operation -- the first such finding against a Wall Street firm.
 The commission was seeking a similar finding against Morgan Stanley in a Manhattan federal court starting this week. But before Ms. Grossman could preview the numbers for the jury, Morgan Stanley decided to settle.
 ''I think in all three cases, it was a very wise decision on the part of the company'' to settle, said Mary Stowell, a partner in a Chicago law firm that filed class actions on behalf of women brokers at Merrill and Smith Barney, which is a unit of Citigroup.
 Before those suits reached trial, the brokerage firms settled and set up private systems to adjudicate the claims of their employees. Each firm has paid out more than $100 million to resolve those claims.
 In another case, Deutsche Bank settled a discrimination complaint from a managing director, Virginia Gambale, on the eve of a trial last year. Ms. Gambale, who had said that she was twice denied promotions because of her sex, received a ''multimillion-dollar settlement,'' according to Judge Harold Baer Jr. of Federal District Court in Manhattan, who approved the agreement but did not disclose details.
 Despite the lawsuits, the demographics of Wall Street firms have not changed significantly in recent years, according to data compiled by the Securities Industry Association. Indeed, men held a slightly higher percentage of the jobs in the industry last year compared with the level in 1999. Meanwhile, women have continued to hold most of the low-level jobs like sales assistant, according to the association.
 Muriel Siebert, who has been working on Wall Street since the 1950's, said successful, highly educated women continued to drop out of the industry because they see no chance to reach its highest rungs.
 ''There are a lot of women I know who have left the street with four, five, six million in their pockets who say, 'I'm never going to reach the top, so I'll go do something else,''' said Ms. Siebert, chairwoman of Muriel Siebert & Company. ''That's a brain drain, so to speak.''
 Still, the executives who run the biggest firms on Wall Street insist that they are meritocracies, where performance is all that counts. Morgan Stanley executives, like those of Merrill and Smith Barney before them, have repeatedly said that they are committed to maintaining ''a workplace free from discrimination of any kind.''
 The problem has been that the men in charge do not seem to recognize the inequities in their operations until they are presented with a critical analysis of the numbers, said women who have filed complaints and their lawyers.
 ''They really don't believe they are discriminating,'' Ms. Sumner said of the brokerage managers she has encountered. ''If you come in and you look like they want you to look -- probably a white male profile -- they'll project success on you. They have a specific view of what a successful broker or manager will look like, and it is not usually a woman or a black or Hispanic.''
 Ms. Stowell said that firms that want to avoid being sued for discrimination should consider doing what plaintiffs would do: hire statistical experts to analyze their hiring and promotion practices and look for signs of trouble. 
 ''What they need to do instead of believing what they want to believe is take a look at the data,'' Ms. Stowell said. Otherwise, she added, ''They don't see the big picture and they don't know what kind of stereotypes they are harboring about what women could and should do.''
 To change an entrenched culture, she said, requires a clear message from senior executives that they will not tolerate any unequal treatment of employees because of their sex or race. Without that, she said, no amount of sensitivity training or diversity programs will add up to anything more than window-dressing.
 Ms. Stowell cited Smith Barney, which hired Sallie L. Krawcheck as chief executive in late 2002, the first woman in the top job there, as evidence that one or two extraordinary measures can have more effect than numerous court-mandated seminars. After the firm accepted the need to change, it fired some of its most successful brokers for mistreating co-workers who were women.
 ''You don't have to fire too many highly placed, productive brokers for harassment for the message to go through the firm that we mean it,'' Ms. Stowell said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Allison K. Schieffelin, left, listened as Elizabeth Grossman, a lawyer for the E.E.O.C., spoke after a settlement was reached Monday in a case against Morgan Stanley. The Wall Street bank agreed to pay $54 million. (Photo by David Karp/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''On Wall Street, Men Still Rule''Women make up 48 percent of the work force nationally, but in the securities industry they hold only 41 percent of the jobs and are particularly underrepresented in more specialized occupations. Data are for 2002.Sales representativesSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 18%Men: 82%Computer programmersSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 29Men: 71Managers, officers, administratorsSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 32Men: 68Accountants, auditors, underwriters, analysts, researchers, economistsSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 38Men: 62Office, clerical workersSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 69Men: 31All workersSECURITIES INDUSTRYWomen: 41Men: 59Graph also tracks percentages in all industries.(Source by Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); LITIGATION (91%); MEN (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); BONDS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); RACE & RACISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Labor; Discrimination; Wages and Salaries; Hiring and Promotion; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%) Morgan Stanley; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Smith Barney Inc; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Securities Industry Assn

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan; Allison K Schieffelin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



272 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Once Out of Reach, Now Today's Special

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
AT Landmarc, which opened five months ago in TriBeCa, a folded rectangle of paper serves as a menu. It offers a combination of bistro, trattoria and steakhouse dishes, the sort of thing you can find just about anywhere. The wine list, though, is an entirely different matter. Open the hard-bound binder of 22 laminated pages, and you might just slap yourself to see whether you are dreaming. 
 Consider these almost unheard-of restaurant prices: A bottle of 2003 sauvignon blanc from Cloudy Bay, the exceptional New Zealand winemaker, goes for $35 (it's $30 at Sherry-Lehmann). A 2002 Carneros pinot noir from Jed Steele, suggested retail price $18, sells for $24. How about a bottle of 2000 Swanson Alexis, a good Napa Valley Bordeaux blend? Sherry-Lehmann sells it for $48, Landmarc for $50.
 Suppose you wanted to splurge on a wine you might remember for the rest of your life, like a bottle of 1989 Krug. It's maybe a bit of a leap at $165, but nowhere near the $300 you would pay at Morrell Wine Bar. Or cast aside all caution and go for the '86 Latour, a first-growth Bordeaux that ought to be nearing its peak. Sure it's $395, but you can balance the internal books by having not paid $575 at BLT Steak. 
 Restaurants have always conceived of wine lists as prime sources of profits, but increasingly wine has become a marketing tool as well. Landmarc may offer the most extreme example of trying to appeal to customers with gently priced wines, but other restaurants, too, are trotting out creative pricing schemes.
 The Mermaid Inn, a casual fish shack in the East Village, simply adds $15 to its cost on every bottle it sells, a strategy that yields its greatest value at the higher reaches, like a '95 Dom Perignon for $115 (suggested retail, $120). Hearth, which opened late last year in the East Village, features different wines seasonally and offers 25 percent end-of-season discounts. Cite, a Midtown steakhouse, has long featured free wines after 8 p.m. 
 The deals on wine extend beyond New York. All over the country, restaurants that have lost business to the recession and increased competition are offering special half-price wine nights and other discounts to attract customers.
 ''I've seen many, many more restaurants looking at their wine programs to drive business,'' said Ronn Wiegand, a consultant in California who publishes Restaurant Wine, an industry newsletter. ''This has proliferated,'' he added. ''In 1988, I had to look high and low for people doing this sort of thing.''
 Faced with fixed costs like labor and rent and with food prices that must remain competitive, restaurants have historically tried to squeeze as much profit as they could out of wine. At a minimum, the industry standard has been for restaurants to charge triple what they pay for a bottle. Consumers usually end up paying at least twice the price they would pay in a retail shop, and that's in restaurants considered to be charging fair prices for wine.
 ''Who knows where that formula came from,'' said Paul Grieco, wine director of Hearth. ''Whoever came up with it looked at all the other costs in a restaurant -- fixed costs, food costs, labor costs -- and found in the beverage area an opportunity to even things out.''
 With its unusually low wine prices, Landmarc is trying to make up the difference in volume. So far, customers have been happy to help out.
 ''The amount of wine we go through in a week is astounding, compared to other restaurants of this size,'' said David Lombardo, wine and beverage director at Landmarc, which seats 100 people. ''For us, every single table has a bottle of wine on it, sometimes two.''
 Landmarc is not only pioneering minimal markups. The restaurant does not offer any wines by the glass, usually the highest profit center on a restaurant wine list. Instead, the 300-bottle list includes almost 50 half-bottles, each costing hardly more than a glass of wine at most restaurants, a great thing if a party of two would like to start with a white and end with a red, or simply drink different wines. The half-bottle choices might range from a 2000 Rioja crianza from El Coto, for $9, to an '03 Sancerre from Pascal Jolivet for $12, to a bottle of '00 Quintessa, a high-end Napa Valley red, for $48 (a full bottle is priced at $95).
 ''We wanted to make every bottle of wine accessible to every guest,'' Mr. Lombardo said. ''You're paying for what would be a glass of wine, but essentially getting a half-bottle.''
 No matter how Landmarc measures its success, the economics of the wine list argues against most restaurants taking a similar leap. Jimmy Bradley, an owner of the Mermaid Inn, believes the restaurant's $15 markup can only work in a casual neighborhood like the East Village, and even so, it has required him to make other compromises. The Mermaid Inn does not take reservations, and it doesn't offer desserts. This permits a steady flow of customers into the dining room, and tables turn quickly, without waiting for postprandial lingerers. 
 ''Every once in a while you have a one-off, or a mom and pop operator with a good idea, but I don't see it happening more in New York,'' Mr. Bradley said. ''It has to do with the rent, the real estate, the concept and many other things. I would never do it in TriBeCa.''
 While few restaurants are reconfiguring the wine list as radically as Landmarc, good value nonetheless remains a holy grail. More and more restaurants are trying to buy top wines on consignment from collectors or investors. By this method, the restaurant can offer the wines on its list, but does not actually pay for them until the wines are sold.
 ''You can carry a big inventory without carrying hundreds of thousands of dollars,'' said Mr. Grieco of Hearth, who estimates that 25 percent of his list is on consignment. ''It allows us access to older wines and wines no longer available at wholesale.''
 Of course, any restaurant associated with wine collectors often has great values, though almost always on very expensive wines. A bottle of '85 Petrus is a mere $750 at Veritas in the Flatiron district, a considerable saving over the $950 charged at Landmarc. And unless a restaurant owner is sympathetic to wine drinkers, the fondest hopes of the wine director or sommelier may be for nothing. As in any other business, they often have sales targets they have to meet or they lose their jobs. 
 ''No sommelier wants to buy Chateau Mouton-Rothschild for $600 and sell it for $2,400,'' said Tim Kopec, wine director at Veritas. ''They want to sell it for $800 and turn people onto wine. But they don't always have a choice.''
 The Landmarc model may not inspire anything other than resentment on the part of other restaurants. As it turns out, Landmarc is possibly the result of circumstances that liberate it from the usual formula. ''I'm pretty lucky,'' said Marc Murphy, who owns Landmarc with his wife, Pamela Schein Murphy. ''My wife and I bought the building. We don't have to pay rent. We're just a neighborhood place, and we hope to be around a long time.''
 As Mr. Bradley suggested, Landmarc is economizing in other areas. It does not ordinarily take reservations and its dessert sampler ($15) generally precludes the dreaded scenario of one-dessert-for-a-party-of-four. Nonetheless, the Murphys are not yet feeling entirely secure.
 ''It's a bit of a risk; we're definitely putting our necks out,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''Obviously there are competitors out there, and people are waiting to see if we can actually make it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TARGET: SALES -- At the Mermaid Inn, the markup on all wines, from the modest bottles above to the most expensive, is $15. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 GENTLY PRICED -- David Lombardo, above, is the wine and beverage director at Landmarc. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); MENU PRICES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); WINERIES (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Restaurants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

ORGANIZATION: Landmarc (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Eric Asimov

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



273 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Central Bank Raises Growth Forecast

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 13 

 BODY:
Japan's central bank said on Tuesday that the nation's economy would grow faster than the bank had previously forecast, amid signs that consumer spending continues to build.
 Although the Bank of Japan provided no specific target, the bank said the economy's performance would exceed the estimates made in April, when the median forecast by central bankers put growth at 3.1 percent for the fiscal year ending next March.
 The report by the central bank was in line with the views of private economists, many of whom have raised their forecasts after a surprisingly robust first quarter. 
 Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 6.1 percent for the quarter ended in March as consumer demand -- the missing element from Japan's recovery -- picked up, augmenting already strong exports and business investment.
 The rosier outlook came on the same day that central bankers again decided to keep short-term interest rates close to zero, as they have for years, in an effort to halt a six-year slide in prices. While the economy has been expanding for two years, Japan is still struggling to end deflation. The prolonged price decline is troublesome because it could curtail consumer demand by creating the expectation that things will become cheaper.
 The Bank of Japan has said it will maintain its ultraloose monetary policy until consumer prices rise and show signs of continuing to tick higher. On Tuesday, the bank gave no indication that it would alter monetary policy anytime soon, warning that ''consumer prices are expected to continue their slight downtrend.''
 Adding to the optimism, the government of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi raised its official assessment of the economy Tuesday for the first time in six months, saying a business recovery was beginning to drive a rebound in consumer spending, which accounts for 60 percent of the Japanese economy.
 The Cabinet Office said the two-year-old recovery was ''expected to continue as the world economy recovers and domestic private demand increases steadily.''
 Recent data suggest that consumption is growing. Spending by households headed by wage earners, for example, grew by more than 5 percent in May. Many economists, however, have doubts whether the recovery in consumer spending will last because incomes in Japan, like prices, have been falling.
 And although consumption has picked up, the nation's recovery is still driven largely by strong exports of Japanese machinery, electronics and cars to the United States, China and other countries in Asia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STATISTICS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Japan

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (98%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



274 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: India Sees Backlash Fading Over Boom in Outsourcing

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, July 13 

 BODY:
The backlash against the outsourcing of software and back-office services to India appears to have died down, executives here said Tuesday as a bellwether company posted better-than-expected earnings, mostly on improved business from the United States.
 The company, India's second largest for software and services outsourcing, Infosys Technologies, said on Tuesday that its quarterly profit had increased 39.2 percent, helped by the economic recovery in United States, its prime market. Net profit rose to 3.88 billion rupees ($84.3 million) in the April to June period, its first fiscal quarter, while revenue was 15.2 billion rupees ($33.04 million), a rise of almost 39 percent. 
 The results at Infosys, the first of a series of Indian outsourcing companies to post earnings, underscored that pressure against Indian software and back-office companies was easing, though the emotional protests against it in the United States and Europe never seemed to actually cut into business. 
 ''The backlash against outsourcing has abated, customer spending is on the rise and we have redesigned ourselves internally to take advantage of the vast opportunities,'' said Nandan M. Nilekani, chief executive of Infosys.
 Nearly two-thirds of Infosys's earnings come from customers in the United States. The outsourcing company hired 2,305 employees in the quarter, bringing its work force to nearly 28,000, and added 29 clients, taking that total to more than 400. That roster includes Reebok, Amazon, Cisco, Apple and Boeing.
 Infosys shares closed almost 2 percent higher on the Mumbai stock exchange.
 India's outsourcing sector has boomed as global companies have shifted work offshore to take advantage of the country's skilled, cheap, English-speaking labor force. The loss of jobs to India from the United States and Europe became a political cause, however, which sent ripples of anxiety through the industry.
 India's $15 billion software and back-office services sector has grown at around 30 percent in the last few years, with the industry looking for $50 billion in business by 2008. Most of the business, about $12.5 billion, is with companies outside India, and more than two-thirds of that from the United States. The industry employs just short of a million people in India.
 Some executives said the Infosys results could be the turning point for the industry's preoccupation with the backlash issue.
 ''The debate about outsourcing appears to have moved from an emotional, anecdotal, job-losses plane to a more sober, balanced one about the advantages of globalization of services,'' said Sunil Mehta, vice president of Nasscom, India's leading software industry trade body.
 Infosys, known for its conservative earnings outlook, especially during the backlash period, said it expected sales to rise nearly 40 percent in the current year. ''Infosys continues to benefit from the positive demand environment for offshore services,'' said S.D. Shibulal, head of worldwide customer delivery.
 Though the furor in the United States has died down some, the National Foundation for American Policy, a research group, says more than 100 bills are pending in 38 states to curb the use of offshore contractors by state and local governments, and legislation has been passed in 5 states and vetoed in 2. 
 Earlier this year, Congress enacted an amendment to the federal omnibus appropriations act, sponsored by Senators Craig Thomas of Wyoming and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, both Republicans, that prohibits the use of offshore workers on some government jobs. And Senator John Kerry, the Democratic candidate for president, earlier this year referred to the outsourcers as ''Benedict Arnold companies and C.E.O.'s,'' but lately has been relatively quiet on the issue.
 Earlier this year, executives from American companies that outsourced to India came on clandestine visits, rarely spoke about what deals were being negotiated and forbade Indian companies from publicizing the contracts.
 As Indian outsourcing companies grew fearful that negative publicity would harm business, Nasscom tried to protect themselves by campaigning for outsourcing with lawmakers, government officials and industry lobbies in the United States and Europe.
 But in the last two months, analysts say the backlash issue seems to be fading in importance to the American public and to United States businesses. 
 ''No longer are customers prefacing outsourcing questions with what they should do to deflect the backlash issue,'' said Partha Iyengar, research director for Gartner in Mumbai. Gartner nonetheless still recommends that its United States clients continue with employee-impact assessments and community audits before embarking on outsourcing.
 Some experts said they expected the concerns to be replaced by more pressing matters, like the shortage of skilled labor.
 ''Most companies are expanding so rapidly,'' Mr. Mehta of Nasscom said, ''that we fear the new threat for outsourcing is not the backlash but the imbalance in supply of skilled professionals.'' 
 The hostility against outsourcing may have inadvertently helped the industry, some experts suggested. 
 ''The backlash proved a gold mine of free publicity for Indian outsourcing companies,'' Mr. Iyengar of Gartner said. ''For many U.S. companies, the backlash made offshoring a compelling proposition.'' 
 Even smaller outsourcing companies, like iGate Global Solutions, based in Bangalore, reached some deals after the controversy. The company, with $125 million in annual revenues and 4,000 employees, has customers like General Electric, GreenPoint Financial and Kraft Foods. 
 ''The backlash issue made outsourcing so mainstream that even my barber was speaking knowledgeably about outsourcing,'' said iGate's chief executive, Phaneesh Murthy, who is based in Fremont, Calif.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Wednesday about the easing of resentment in the United States and Europe against the outsourcing of software and back-office services to India misstated the fiscal first-quarter revenue, in dollar terms, of Infosys Technologies, the country's second-largest company doing such work. The figure of 15.2 billion rupees is equal to $330 million, not $33.04 million.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nandan M. Nilekani says Infosys sees vast opportunity in outsourcing. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W1)
 Infosys, India's second-largest outsourcing company, yesterday reported quarterly profits up 39.2 percent. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%) Company Reports ; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet; Foreign Labor; Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (94%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies Ltd; Infosys Technologies Ltd

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (94%); INFY (NYSE) (94%); INFY (NSE) (94%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai; Nandan M Nilekani

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%) India

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



275 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Hotels and Hotel Deal Makers Are Busier

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
With business travelers taking to the road again, the hotel industry is emerging from a slump that began a year before the terrorist attacks of September 2001. Fewer rooms are going begging, room rates are rising and revenues are growing.
 For many owners of sizable hotels that means just one thing: it's a good time to sell.
 So the Crescent Real Estate Equities Company of Fort Worth has put the 613-room Denver Marriott City Center and the 395-room Hyatt Albuquerque on the market. Tarsadia Hotels of Newport Beach, Calif., is looking for a buyer for the 679-room Hyatt Regency Orange County in Anaheim, Calif., and Thayer Hotel Investors of Annapolis, Md., hopes to sell the 1,338-room Marriott Wardman Park Hotel in Washington, while AEW Partners and the other owners are marketing the 297-room St. Regis in Los Angeles. 
 This week, the InterContinental Hotels Group, the world's largest hotel owner, put 20 hotels up for sale, including the 814-room Hotel InterContinental Chicago and the 640-room Hotel InterContinental in Miami. Thirteen of the company's other hotels, including the 300-room Crowne Plaza United Nations, went on sale in May.
 These properties are being offered at a time when the industry's progress over all has been modest. PricewaterhouseCoopers expects occupancy across the country to increase 1.6 percentage points this year and average daily rates to increase by 3 percent, with revenue per available room -- the standard industry measure -- growing by 5.8 percent after increasing by only 0.5 percent last year. 
 Bjorn Hanson, who runs the hospitality practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers, points out that revenue losses in 2001 and 2002 totaled 9.5 percent, suggesting that the industry still has a long way to go before it can catch up to the performance levels achieved in 2000, the peak year. 
 Hotels in many cities, however, are doing far better. During the first five months of this year, revenue per available room in the top 25 markets grew by 10.5 percent over last year, compared with 6.7 percent in the rest of the country, reports Smith Travel Research of Henderson, Tenn.
 New York and Washington showed the largest revenue gains: 26.6 percent and 15.6 percent, respectively. But these figures are skewed by the fact that travel slowed appreciably in the first half of 2003 because of the war in Iraq, said Robert I. Bowers Jr., a senior vice president at Smith. Analysts are waiting to compare this July with last July, when the recovery began, he said.
 Even when the industry was in the doldrums, ''the market for smaller properties has continued unabated,'' with hotels with fewer than 200 rooms trading for about $5 million or $6 million each, said Thomas McConnell, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield's Hotels Transactions Group. Many of the buyers are private investment funds.
 But now, as a result of 13 consecutive months of gains in both occupancy and room rates, bigger and better hotels have been coming on the market, as owners who shied away from selling during the downturn conclude that they no longer need to wait.
 Publicly traded companies that had been shedding hotel properties are now among the most active buyers. Hersha Hospitality Trust, for example, a Harrisburg, Pa., real estate investment trust that specializes in newer 100 to 200 room hotels in New England, has bought one hotel a month since October, said Jay H. Shah, the president and chief operating officer. New real estate investment trusts specializing in hotels -- like Ashford Hospital Trust of Dallas and the Highland Hospitality Corporation of McLean, Va. -- have also recently been formed.
 With increasing competition and the continuing availability of cheap capital, prices are rising. 
 ''It's more of a sellers' market than a buyers' market,'' said John V. Arabia, a lodging analyst for Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif. ''There's a lot of money chasing individual transactions.'' But prices are still below what it would cost to build new hotels, he said.
 As real estate specialists point out, hotels offer investors an advantage over other forms of real estate because owners can instantly raise their rates to respond to an economic upswing. ''It's like a daily lease,'' said John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting, which specializes in hotels. ''Unlike an office building, you can adjust rates to demand levels.''
 Lodging Econometrics, a hotel real estate research and brokerage company in Portsmouth, N.H., tracked 587 hotel sales in 2002 with an average sale price of $60,947 a room. (The survey excludes properties on leased land or with extra real estate like condominiums and golf courses.) In 2003, said Patrick H. Ford, the president of Lodging Econometrics, sales decreased to 573 hotels, but the price increased to $70,308. ''The reason for that jump,'' Mr. Ford said, ''is that there were a larger proportion of larger projects.'' 
 Sales this year have averaged $69,419, he said.
 In 2002, only 76 hotels changed hands for $10 million or more, while last year, 133 hotels were sold for more than $10 million, Mr. Ford said. Last year's sales included 163 hotels with 150 or more rooms, up from 45 in 2002. And fewer small hotels were traded.
 Joseph V. Green, the president and chief financial officer of Winston Hotels Inc., a real estate investment trust in Raleigh, N.C., that provides subordinate financing for hotel properties, said business has been picking up. ''We have seen better-quality properties go on the market,'' he said, ''and the number of opportunities has increased every month.''
 Recent deals have included several top resorts on the island of Maui in Hawaii. Fairmont Hotels and Resorts is selling the 450-room Fairmont Kea Lani Maui to Host Marriott for $355 million but will continue to manage it. MSD Capital, a real estate company that invests capital belonging to Michael S. Dell, the founder of the computer company, recently paid a reported $280 million for the 377-room Four Seasons Maui at Wailea. The 548-room Ritz-Carlton Kapalua is also seeking a buyer.
 But for the most part investors who own such luxury properties are likely to hold onto them for the next few years, real estate specialists said. More typically, the listed properties tend to be hotels catering to business executives. 
 In one recent transaction that raised some eyebrows because of the price, the MeriStar Hospitality Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in Arlington, Va., bought the 484-room Marriott Irvine in Southern California from the Cigna Corporation for $92.5 million, or $191,116 a room. Bruce G. Wiles, MeriStar's chief operating officer, said the company had been selling underperforming hotels to rid itself of debt and to focus on more upscale properties in larger urban areas. ''We don't want to be in your basic suburban office park,'' Mr. Wiles said.
 Though Irvine is suburban, it has enough office space to qualify as a business district, he said. The company plans to spend $7.5 million on improvements. 
 In May, MeriStar bought the 366-room Ritz-Carlton in the Pentagon City section of Arlington, Va., paying $93 million, or $254,098 a room. Mark W. Elliott, a partner and managing director of Hodges Ward Elliott, a hotel real estate brokerage and investment banking firm in Atlanta, who represented the seller, Walton Street Capital of Chicago, said the seemingly high price was justified by the strength of the Washington hotel market. ''In hindsight,'' he said, ''people think they made a great buy.''
 In New York, where room occupancy in May was an impressive 85.8 percent, according to PKF Consulting, Ian Schrager, the creator of stylish boutique hotels, sold the 620-room Paramount Hotel for $126 million to a joint venture of Sol Melia Hotels and Resorts and Hard Rock Cafe.
 Many of the recent sales are in cities where it is hard to build new hotels. And in any case, few new hotels are in the pipeline -- a situation that is likely to change as the market improves, real estate specialists say.
 Warren Q. Fields, the chief investment officer of Pyramid Advisors of Boston, which recently bought eight Adam's Mark Hotels throughout the country in a joint venture with Morgan Stanley, said that investors still needed to exercise discipline and choose their hotel acquisitions carefully. 
 ''There's a false sense of security, that everything is rosy in the industry,'' he said. ''That has yet to be borne out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: MeriStar Hospitality recently bought the 484-room Marriott Irvine in Southern California from Cigna for $92.5 million, or $191,116 a room. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)Chart: ''Hotel Occupancy Up''Occupancy rates in the United States have been higher this year than last year.Graph compares occupancy rates in the United States from January to May 2003 and January to May 2004.(Source by Smith Travel Research)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through May.REGIONAL IN THOUSANDSGraph tracks new privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, from 2000 through May 2004.NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSMAY '03: 167.1MAR. '04: 183.6APR. '04: 186.7MAY '04: 184.8(Source by U.S. Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (89%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Hotels and Motels; Industry Profiles; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (91%); TARSADIA HOTELS (91%); CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO (72%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (57%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Crescent Real Estate Equities Inc; Tarsadia Hotels; Thayer Hotel Investors; Aew Partners Lp

TICKER: H (NYSE) (91%); IHG (NYSE) (57%); IHG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



276 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3655 words

HEADLINE: Early Tests for U.S. in Its Global Fight on AIDS

BYLINE: This article was reported by Deborah Sontag, Sharon LaFraniere and Michael Wines, and was written by Ms. Sontag.

 BODY:
The Bush administration did not consult with Mozambique last year before designating the country as a beneficiary of its emergency AIDS plan. Mozambique was simply informed that it would be one of 12 African nations, and 15 countries overall, awarded substantial financial assistance. 
 The pledge of big money was certainly welcome, said Francisco Songane, the Mozambican health minister; AIDS has lowered life expectancy in Mozambique to 38. But the approach, perceived by many Mozambicans as arrogant and neocolonial, was not. 
 Mozambique, in southeastern Africa, had spent considerable time developing a national strategy to combat its high rate of H.I.V. infection. Other international donors had agreed to pool their contributions and let the Mozambicans control their own health programs. Thus, Mozambican officials recoiled when the Americans said earlier this year, ''We want to move quickly, and we know that your government doesn't have the capacity,'' Mr. Songane said. 
 The Bush administration wanted the bulk of its funding to go toward more costly brand-name antiretroviral drugs for treatment programs run by nongovernmental organizations. But Mozambique had already decided to treat its people with 3-in-1 generic pills, which were cheaper and simpler to take. Also, Mozambique did not want an American program dependent on costly foreign consultants, N.G.O.'s and the largesse of foreign political leaders, that would run parallel to its own. 
 There were confrontational meetings in Washington and in Maputo, the capital of Mozambique. And in the end, to the surprise of many, the Bush administration agreed to give Mozambique the kind of help it really wanted, by strengthening its laboratories, blood-transfusion centers and the Health Ministry itself -- albeit indirectly, through a grant to Columbia University. 
 ''What I witnessed in Mozambique was a disaster averted,'' said Dr. Steven Gloyd, an international health specialist at the University of Washington who works with Mozambique. ''So, for countries like Mozambique, this may turn out to be a positive intervention, even though it could be a lot more.'' 
 Seventeen months after President Bush announced his five-year, $15 billion emergency AIDS initiative, the program is belatedly getting under way, and surprising some critics of what is seen as its go-it-alone approach. In some cases, the plan is proving to be more adaptive and collaborative than had been expected, especially when countries are strong enough to stand their ground.
 The plan is already directing considerable money into health clinics, laboratories, testing centers and hospices, AIDS treatment, prevention of H.I.V. and care of orphans. 
 For every Mozambique, however, where Washington has altered its plans to meet local objections, there is a Zambia, where local officials are in the dark. The Zambian health minister, Brian Chituwo, said his government did not have a formal meeting on the program with the American ambassador until May, 15 months after Zambia's role was announced. Further, he said, on everything but blood-transfusion services, which were negotiated, the Americans' plans for Zambia have ''all come from Washington.'' The American plan, one senior United Nations official said, ''has created turbulence wherever it has gone.'' But another, Michel Sidibe, praised the Americans for making a ''major shift'' in May by signing ''a declaration of harmonization'' in which they pledged to coordinate their anti-AIDS activities with other donors. 
 The president's program, a centerpiece of his compassionate conservativism, has been a prime topic of conversation at the International AIDS Conference in Bangkok -- and a magnet for some protests. On Tuesday, President Jacques Chirac of France accused the United States of blackmailing developing countries into bartering their right to produce generic H.I.V. drugs for free-trade agreements. American officials dismissed the charge as groundless. 
 After decades when the pandemic in Africa spread unchecked, billions in anti-AIDS money is suddenly pledged to assist the continent, and questions about how to channel that outpouring have taken center stage. The administration's AIDS effort is under sharp scrutiny because it so big, so unabashedly Washington-dominated and tinged by the administration's political ideology. 
 Many critics see big pharmaceutical companies behind the Bush administration's preference for costlier brand-name drugs, conservative Christians behind its heavy promotion of abstinence, and hard-line unilateralists behind its decision to bypass the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in creating its own plan.
 Randall L. Tobias, a former chief executive of the Eli Lilly & Company drug group and a Republican donor who became the administration's global AIDS coordinator last October, lamented the politicized environment and suggested that critics refocus their antagonism. ''The enemy here ought to be apathy, denial and stigma,'' he said. ''I don't know why people spend so much time fighting each other.'' 
 Still, the administration's refusal thus far to use its money to buy generics is complicating the roll-out of its own emergency plan. Like the Mozambicans, other African officials have resisted the distribution of brand name drugs as first-line therapy. As a result, in a half a dozen or more of the focus countries, the governments themselves or other donors are picking up most of the cost of life-saving drugs.
 The goal set by President Bush in January 2003 was to treat two million people in five years. Under the plan, an estimated 6,000 to 10,000 people have started on antiretroviral drugs so far, according to a Congressional appropriations expert. The global AIDS office could not give a figure. In the slums of Lusaka, Zambia, American money was put to use quickly this spring renovating four clinics and training workers to distribute drugs. American doctors worked in concert with a local health official to salvage a stockpile of government AIDS drugs that were about to expire. 
 In late April, they started handing out drugs that ward off death for some very ill people, and within two months, they had 700 patients on antiretroviral therapy. 
 ''There was a patient whose family had sadly sent her off to a hospice'' to die, said Jeffrey Stringer, a doctor from the University of Alabama who is running the program. Recently, a health worker escorted the patient back home. ''And there was a woman who couldn't crawl who has now gained weight and is walking around.'' 
 Dr. Stringer, who is working in collaboration with the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation in Los Angeles, noted that he had not voted for President Bush. But he had to admit, he said, ''They ponied up.''
 Other American experts are more skeptical. 
 ''Sure, off the bat, you can put 5,000'' on antiretroviral drugs, said Josh Ruxin, an assistant clinical professor of public health at Columbia and a consultant to Rwanda and Nigeria. ''They're easy to ID, they're terribly sick, they need drugs now, they live in cities, they have cell phones. So that's the low-hanging fruit. But then what happens? You quickly reach a point where you can't treat more people unless you develop the national health systems, and that is not something I've heard the American government commit to in a big way.'' 
 For Bush, a 'Work of Mercy'Mr. Bush presented the President's Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief in his 2003 State of the Union address, which also began the countdown to the war in Iraq. He called it a ''work of mercy,'' offering the soft power of American humanitarianism to counterbalance the imminent use of military force. 
 ''As our nation moves troops and builds alliances to make our world safer, we must also remember our calling as a blessed country to make this world better,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bush declared a five-year goal of getting 2 million into treatment, preventing 7 million infections and providing care to 10 million infected people and AIDS orphans in what he called the most afflicted countries in Africa and the Caribbean. 
 The 14 focus countries named were: Botswana, Ethiopia, Guyana, Haiti, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. Vietnam was added last month at Congress's insistence that there be another nation from a different region.
 The sheer ambition of the proposal stunned advocates for huge increases in global AIDS funding into applause. Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia University economist, called the president's commitment ''historic'' and a ''breakthrough.''
 But at a time when American power was being imposed and questioned in the military arena, the AIDS plan struck some as another kind of unilateralism. They feared that Mr. Bush's program would undermine the multilateral Global Fund, which assists eight times as many countries, including India, China and Russia, whose infection rates are rising rapidly. And these experts thought it was retrogressive in its reliance on American universities, faith-based organizations and nongovernmental organizations, whose ability to pay higher salaries could drain workers from local public health systems that should be reinforced instead. 
 Dr. Paul Zeitz, executive director of the Global AIDS Alliance, said advocates were baffled. ''We thought the international community had come to a consensus that there needed to be a new way of doing business where we all worked together and helped strengthen national capacities,'' he said. 
 When he took office, Mr. Bush had inherited a kind of global momentum toward an international AIDS fund, and a drumbeat for action was building at home, too. Senators Bill Frist and John Kerry formed a bipartisan team to fight for greater American involvement. The Rev. Franklin Graham, who delivered the invocation at Mr. Bush's inauguration, was catalyzing the evangelical community to get over its aversion to the disease and confront it as part of its mission.
 The push for an international fund was led by, among others, Mr. Sachs and Secretary General Kofi Annan at the United Nations. But the Bush administration was a major force in shaping the Global Fund as an independent, multilateral, public-private partnership, and not a World Bank or United Nations program. 
 The Global Fund's approach was conceived as a reaction against years of inefficient and often ineffective foreign development programs. The idea was to funnel aid from multiple donors to the affected countries and let them run their own health programs, thereby eliminating waste, duplication and burdensome demands on patients.
 Yet it took a couple of years for the Global Fund, which is based in Geneva, to persuade countries to develop plans that could be financed, and to get the money flowing from government coffers into health care. The Bush administration was impatient, and concerned that other countries were not contributing their share. The Global Fund did not seem the ideal repository for the billions it wanted to pour into the pandemic. 
 After the 2003 State of the Union address, Richard Feacham, executive director of the Global Fund, said: ''There was to some degree a mood in Washington of dichotomy'' between the president's plan and the Global Fund. ''People felt the need to make a choice and see a rivalry. We worked extremely hard to convey the message that the world needs both. You can't stop the pandemic in 15 countries. The Global Fund is in 130. We also focus on TB and malaria, the greatest killer of African children.''
 Right after the State of the Union address, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, became the new chairman of the Global Fund, which made some European donors fear an American takeover. But Mr. Bush has instead moved to pull back. In his budget request for 2004, he sought to reduce America's contribution. And in his 2005 request, he is asking for a 60 percent cut in the contribution.
 Congress, however, refused the Global Fund's allocation for 2004, instead nearly tripling the administration's request. It also increased the global financing to $2.4 billion, of which $1.9 billion goes for H.I.V./AIDS (and the rest for tuberculosis and malaria). Several members of Congress complained that $2.4 billion was not a lot of money for a global health emergency, especially compared with more than $100 billion spent on military operations in Iraq. 
 The global AIDS coordinator's office, in fact, had only $488 million in new money this year. It also used old money in new ways, though. By the end of the 2004 budget year, it will have committed -- but not yet spent -- $865 million, one-fifth of which is committed to faith-based groups. Some $253 million will go toward treatment programs, but the drug issue has made spending that money more difficult than expected.
 Generic Drugs vs. Brand Names''We are using generics here because they are cheaper,'' Mr. Songane of Mozambique said. ''And apart from being cheaper, they are prepared in a manner which is simple for our patients, and even simpler for our staff.''
 Like Mozambique, many countries prefer generics because they can be used to treat more people and because, given patent problems, only generics now come in fixed-dose combinations, which combine three drugs in one tablet, improving adherence to pill-taking schedules.
 Foreign-made 3-in-1 pills have been approved by the World Health Organization and purchased in bulk by the Global Fund and many developing countries. But the Bush administration is insisting on brand-name antiretroviral drugs because the generics have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. The F.D.A., Mr. Tobias said, is the most stringent regulatory authority in the world and should make the determination whether drugs for an American overseas program are safe and effective, and of the highest quality. 
 Mr. Tobias noted that the World Health Organization recently withdrew two generic antiretroviral drugs made by Cipla of India from its list of approved treatments. (Its fixed dose tablets remain on the list.) This, he suggested, cast doubt on the W.H.O.'s screening procedures. 
 Cipla has said that the problem lay not with the product but with a contract research laboratory that it no longer uses. Tests are being repeated in different labs, and the company says it is confident that the drugs will be back on the approved list soon.
 Further, earlier this month, researchers who studied Cipla's Triomune reported in the Lancet medical journal, that fixed-dose generic AIDS drugs work as well as brand-name drugs, according to the first clinical trial. Triomune costs as little as $140 a year per patient, compared with about $562 for the brand-name versions in the 3-in-1 pill.
 In early spring, the Americans discovered that resistance to their rule on brand-name drugs was coming even from the American organizations who were getting multicountry, multiyear grants to set up treatment programs. The American organizations, which are expected to receive more than $600 million over five years, are the Harvard School of Public Health; the Glaser foundation; the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University; and a faith-based consortium led by Catholic Relief Services. 
 Some expressed their preferences for generics outright. Barry R. Bloom, the dean of public health at Harvard, said, ''The Indian pills are terrific -- you take just two a day.'' Allan Rosenfield, dean at Mailman, issued a statement urging the Bush administration to allow American money to purchase generics.
 At an American-initiated conference in Botswana in late March, Jacqueline Patterson, who manages the program for a Protestant medical association that is part of the Catholic Relief Services' consortium, declared that most mission hospitals and clinics in Africa and the Caribbean were already using fixed-dose combinations and wanted to continue. She read comments from the field that voiced a collective anxiety about the imposition of brand-name drugs, resulting in fewer people in treatment and more skipping doses and sharing pills. 
 With countries like Mozambique, Namibia and Rwanda holding fast to their positions that generics would be their first-line drugs, American officials realized that their assistance in those places would be limited. They would be able to provide medicine for children, for whom only brand-name drugs are available, and for those adults, say, who had developed a resistance to the generics. But essentially, they would be providing technical support for the drug treatment program rather than the drugs themselves.
 In May, the Bush administration announced that it would set up a new expedited review for generic antiretrovirals, including the 3-in-1 pills. If approved, the drugs would be eligible for use in the AIDS plan, it said.
 An executive at an American foundation engaged in global AIDS work said it remained to be seen whether ''the F.D.A. process is real, a stalling tactic, or ultimately a tool for the R-and-D companies.'' But, he said, his foundation was encouraging foreign drug companies to submit dossiers to the agency.
 So far, no foreign drug companies have applied for the expedited review. William F. Haddad, an American representative for Cipla, said the Indian company was left with unanswered questions about the accelerated approval process. ''When they come back to us with answers, Cipla will make up its mind about whether to apply,'' he said. ''But the bottom line is that this is a political act, not a scientific one. Why is the World Health Organization's stamp of approval O.K. for the World Bank and the Global Fund and not for the U.S.?''
 Abstinence vs. Condoms With its focus on treatment, Mr. Bush's plan is profoundly changing a two-decades-long emphasis on H.I.V. prevention as the American strategy abroad. The prevention efforts are continuing but, on Congress's mandate, they are being given a new emphasis on abstinence, with $86 million devoted this year to promoting abstinence.
 World Relief International, the humanitarian arm of the National Association of Evangelicals, is to receive $9.6 million over five years to promote abstinence. Deborah Dortzbach, international director for its H.I.V./AIDS programs, said World Relief would use a network of churches, schools and ''Choose Life'' clubs in Haiti, Kenya, Rwanda and Mozambique. 
 ''We teach abstinence as an opportunity,'' she said, ''as a way to delay the gift of sexuality and its pleasures until they can experience it with responsibility.'' 
 A guide for World Relief instructors includes a detailed chapter on condom use and how to negotiate the use of a condom with a reluctant partner. Ms. Dortzbach acknowledged, however, that many pastors were reluctant to discuss condoms at all with youths and needed some persuasion to mention them during marriage counseling. 
 Any discussion of condoms, Ms. Dortzbach said, emphasized that condoms were not perfectly safe and that ''the only guarantee for protection is abstinence,'' which is the Bush administration's message. 
 That message is predicated on the success of the ABC model in Uganda, which stands for Abstain, Be Faithful, Condomize. Critics say, however, that the Americans are paying too little attention to ''C.'' 
 The American government is probably buying more condoms now than at any time in its history, Mr. Tobias said, but Congress did not want a broad distribution of condoms to be the primary prevention tool, as it has been historically. In Africa, too, some experts question the efficacy of condoms, given that infection rates continue to climb as many men refuse to use them.
 The Bush administration's strategy does suggest condoms for ''high risk'' individuals like prostitutes, soldiers, drug users and ''serodiscordant'' couples. But critics say everybody in a sub-Saharan country with a sky-high infection rate is high risk.
 ''In their approach, they ignore the basic reality that a large share of unmarried adolescents are already sexually active and so at high risk,'' said Jodi L. Jacobson, executive director of the Center for Health and Gender Equity in Maryland. ''They also ignore the fact that marriage doesn't protect married teens and women from H.I.V., and that sexual violence and coercion are facts of life.''
 The Longer Term In Maputo, health officials said that they were struck by the Americans' obsession with numeric goals. 
 ''To see an increase in numbers of people on antiretrovirals, that was their only concern,'' said Mr. Songane, the health minister. ''But this is a complex disease. We can not judge the success of our fight just by the numbers of people on treatment.''
 The Mozambicans wanted to move gradually and to strengthen their health sector at the same time. They did not want to neglect other health issues, like malaria, childhood diseases and maternal health. They did not want to use nongovernmental organizations where the Americans would pay the salaries, buy the drugs and purchase the vehicles that would travel to the villages to distribute the drugs. 
 ''In one year, two years' time, who is going to follow those people?'' he asked. ''When the N.G.O. is gone, who is going to take over?''
 Dr. Paul Farmer, an American renowned for his treatment programs in rural Haiti, said international projects intending to help poor countries should pay heed, as Mozambique does, to the need to integrate AIDS treatment with overall health care.
 ''When you're in a clinic in rural Haiti and someone comes in with a broken arm or in obstructed labor, you can't say, 'Sorry, we only do AIDS prevention and care,''' said Dr. Farmer, a Harvard professor. ''The massive loss of life due to H.I.V. disease is only one symptom of a very sick world in which hundreds of millions are going without any modern medical care at all. Addressing AIDS properly offers a chance to set some of this right.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Aggrey Mwiindwa, 32, is counseled at a clinic in Lusaka, Zambia, about drugs he gets under an American program that has renovated four clinics. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Dorcas Mwisha, 13, who apparently was born with H.I.V., at a clinic in Lusaka, Zambia, with her aunt, Rose Akebu. Both of Dorcas's parents died of AIDS before she was 3. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)
Randall L. Tobias, coordinator of the United States global AIDS program, got an H.I.V. test in April in Mozambique. (Photo by Themba Hadebe/Associated Press)(pg. A10)Chart: ''Focused on H.I.V.''Percent of people age 15-49 with H.I.V. or AIDS in 2003 in countries included in President Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.Graph tracks the percentage of people age 15-49 with H.I.V. in the following countries:BotswanaSouth AfricaNamibiaZambiaMozambiqueTanzaniaIvory CoastKenyaHaitiNigeriaRwandaEthiopiaUgandaGuyanaVietnam(Countries with higher percentages [in the aforementioned list] are placed at the top in descending order
 those closer to the bottom have lower percentages of H.I.V. infected people.)(Source by Joint United Nations Program on H.I.V./AIDS)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); AIDS POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ANTIVIRALS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (67%); HOSPICE (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid ; Tests and Testing; Orphans and Orphanages; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Deborah Sontag; Sharon Lafraniere; Michael Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: MOZAMBIQUE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ZAMBIA (94%); AFRICA (94%) Africa; Mozambique; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



277 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Bush Makes Midwest Push Before Democratic Convention

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: DULUTH, Minn., July 13 

 BODY:
President Bush swept across three states that he narrowly lost in 2000 on Tuesday with a vigorous defense of his record and a fierce attack on Senator John Kerry, his Democratic rival.
 Mr. Bush portrayed Mr. Kerry as a liberal Washington insider who voted against paying for troops in Iraq and supported Hollywood entertainers out of touch with ''the heart and soul'' of America. 
 ''My opponent said he is proud that he and his running mate voted against funding the troops,'' Mr. Bush said at the Superior Dome at Northern Michigan University in Marquette, which thundered with boos at the mention of Mr. Kerry's name. ''Listen, he's entitled to his view. But members of Congress should not vote to send troops into battle and then vote against funding them. And then brag about it.''
 Mr. Bush made his remarks as he ratcheted up his campaigning with a two-day Midwest swing that includes a bus trip through Wisconsin on Wednesday. The burst of activity occurs as Mr. Bush's aides prepare to lose the spotlight to Mr. Kerry, who heads to Boston for his nominating convention as Mr. Bush heads to his ranch in Crawford, Tex.
 With the president's aides worried that Mr. Kerry would enjoy a large increase in popularity, Mr. Bush went to lengths and used often harsh language in trying to discredit Mr. Kerry in what will be one of his last swings before the convention.
 ''He voted for the Patriot Act,'' Mr. Bush said. ''He voted for Nafta. He voted for the No Child Left Behind Act and for the use of force in Iraq. Now he opposes the Patriot Act. He opposes Nafta. He opposes the No Child Left Behind Act and the liberation of Iraq.''
 In the primaries, Mr. Kerry objected to aspects of the two laws and the trade treaty, as well as to the way Mr. Bush managed the Iraq conflict. In fact, Mr. Kerry had not outright opposed any of those measures, and his aides accused Mr. Bush of distorting his position. In particular, the aides objected to the assertion that Mr. Kerry had opposed ''the liberation of Iraq.'' Mr. Kerry voted for the resolution that authorized the military action but criticized Mr. Bush for starting it without allies' support.
 ''The very notion that John Kerry or anybody else I know would support a tyrannical dictatorship is nuts,'' Max Cleland, a former Democratic senator from Georgia who is a Kerry supporter, said. ''We gave the president the benefit of the doubt. But his plan has been no plan. His strategy has been no strategy. It's been a faith-based war.''
 Mr. Bush's first stop was to Republican country, the Upper Peninsula, and his arrival represented the first time a sitting president has visited Marquette since William Howard Taft did so nearly 100 years ago. Mr. Bush drew a rousing reception from a crowd where many people, holding cameras and small children, said they had waited six hours for tickets.
 ''President Bush, welcome to God's country,'' Steve Mariucci, coach of the Detroit Lions professional football team, said in the sweltering Superior Dome.
 With his speech, Mr. Bush continued to draw out what are emerging as his campaign themes. He offered a spirited defense of the two issues over which Mr. Kerry has repeatedly attacked, the economy and Iraq, while trying to portray Mr. Kerry as a liberal urban Democrat out of touch with American values.
 Mr. Bush noted that Mr. Kerry had spoken approvingly of entertainers who appeared at a fund-raisers for him last week in New York and used off-color jokes and often brutal characterizations to attack Mr. Bush. Mr. Bush has seized on that as part of a broader effort to draw distinctions with Mr. Kerry on issues like abortion rights and gay marriage.
 ''The other day, my opponent said that entertainers in Hollywood conveyed the heart and soul of America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I believe the heart and soul of America is found in places like Duluth, Minn.''
 Mr. Kerry praised the entertainers at the event, but he and his aides later said he and his vice-presidential selection, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, did not agree with everything said at the fund-raiser.
 The president also noted that Mr. Kerry had said he and Mr. Edwards were proud to have voted against an $87 billion allocation to pay for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards said they voted against the proposal to try to force the administration to change what both Democrats said was a damaging approach to the conflict. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Kerry, Phil Singer, said: ''The president knows full well that that vote was about getting the administration to change its policy about the way it was managing the war. John Kerry served in Vietnam. He knows quite a bit about what it means to serve, and American troops can rest assured they will be able to count on him once he is president.''
 Unlike other presidential trips that are described as official, or more commonly mix what the White House describes as an official event in the morning with a fund-raiser at night, this two-day visit was only about politics. Mr. Bush was accompanied by campaign aides and his daughter Barbara.
 He showed no hesitation about explicitly appealing for votes, describing Mr. Kerry as a strong opponent, a remark that underlined the tough battle in Michigan, which Al Gore won by 5 percentage points in 2000, and in Minnesota, which Mr. Gore won by 2 points.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a rally yesterday in the Northern Michigan University Superior Dome in Marquette. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (68%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2000

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Michigan; Minnesota; Marquette (Mich); Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



278 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger's Match: Getting a Budget Passed

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, July 13 

 BODY:
Just a few weeks ago, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger seemed an irresistible force: propelled by ego and charisma, commanding popular support, able to work his will on a cowed Legislature. But in the California budget process, he has met something close to an immovable object. 
 Two weeks after the constitutional deadline of June 30 for enactment of a state budget and two months after Mr. Schwarzenegger promised to deliver the first on-time budget in years, he and lawmakers are at stalemate over state spending. 
 While a budget deadlock is hardly unusual, and though the state faces no immediate cash crisis, the current standstill is a reminder that even a popular celebrity governor cannot immediately change the political folkways of the California capital.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger met with legislative leaders into the evening Tuesday, after a midday meeting with local officials. There were signs that an agreement could be within sight, although the negotiations are still fragile.
 The dispute this year centers on a plan to raid local governments for $2.6 billion in tax revenue over two years, with a promise to refrain from doing so in the future. The Republican governor and members of the Democratic-controlled Legislature are hung up over the terms of that provision, with the dispute growing more rancorous by the day.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger plans to speak at a public rally Wednesday to bring pressure on lawmakers to approve his plan. He sent a letter to local officials Tuesday urging them to prod their representatives to pass the budget.
 The painful and protracted talks of the last several weeks, on this and other budget details, demonstrate yet again what Mr. Schwarzenegger's predecessors learned to their frustration about the difficulty of arriving at a budget for the nation's most populous state.
 That budget, which will surpass $100 billion in the fiscal year that began July 1, is a minefield of constitutional mandates, court orders, public employee union contracts and pension obligations, all of which drive state spending ever higher. California is one of only three states that require a two-thirds majority in the Legislature to approve a budget. While the Democrats control both houses, they do not have enough votes to pass a budget over the united opposition of the Republicans or the threatened veto of the governor.
 Proposition 13, passed by the voters in a tax revolt in 1978, severely limits property tax increases, so the state is heavily dependent on income tax receipts, which are notoriously subject to the whims of the economy.
 Adding to the mix are Mr. Schwarzenegger's pledge, so far unshakable, to balance the budget without raising taxes and the commitment by Democratic legislators to protect human services programs.
 Phil Isenberg, a former member of the Democratic leadership in the Assembly who was a sometime budget adviser to Gov. Gray Davis, defeated by Mr. Schwarzenegger in a recall election last fall, said the current governor's charm and celebrity were of only limited usefulness in moving the budget ball.
 ''It wouldn't matter if Davis were still governor or if Larry Flynt the porn king had been elected,'' Mr. Isenberg said. ''The system is set up by court rulings, acts of the Legislature and voter initiatives to require that spending continue and that taxes can't be raised. It doesn't take a genius to figure out there are problems in this formula.''
 Because so much of state spending is locked in by law, the slice of the pie that is subject to annual wrangling is relatively small. This year's budget is hung up over $1.3 billion, of total spending amounting to $103 billion.
 Donna Arduin, the state finance director, who was once a top New York State budget official, said in an interview Tuesday that the disputes could be easily resolved and might well have been settled weeks ago. Tradition, however, seems to dictate that no one get serious about the budget until faced with a deadline, said Ms. Arduin, whom Mr. Schwarzenegger made his first appointee as governor.
 ''We put out our budget in January, and it sits there for a while and then on June 30 the high drama begins,'' she said.
 Ms. Arduin added that the dispute this year centered on Mr. Schwarzenegger's efforts to slow the growth in state spending to bring it closer to revenue, not on major cuts in programs.
 She acknowledged that even if the governor's plan passed without major changes, the state would enter the next fiscal year facing a deficit. But she noted that when he took office late last year, the state had a deficit of nearly $15 billion. Next year, the figure will be closer to $4 billion, she said.
 ''Once this budget passes, we will no longer be in a crisis,'' she said. ''But we still have more to do.''
 Fred Silva, a former member of the Legislature's Democratic staff who is now a budget specialist at the Public Policy Institute of California, noted that despite an upturn in the economy, Mr. Schwarzenegger was asking for some cuts in spending on education and social services.
 ''You expect that in a recession,'' Mr. Silva said. ''But the governor is asking people to tighten their belts in a time when the economy is growing, and that is absolutely unprecedented.'' He said Mr. Schwarzenegger had so far convinced the public that he was dealing with problems inherited from Mr. Davis. 
 But, Mr. Silva added, ''you get only one year to do that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With his finance director, Donna Arduin, at his side, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger promised in May that the budget would be on time. (Photo by Rich Pedroncelli/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX INCREASES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); INCOME TAX (67%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Legislatures and Parliaments; Demonstrations and Riots; Public Opinion; Governors (US); Politics and Government

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; California

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



279 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Earnings Rise 10% But Are Short of Estimates

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch reported weaker-than-expected second-quarter earnings yesterday as a slump in the markets curbed the firm's once robust trading profits.
 The results stand in stark contrast to the hearty second-quarter profits posted weeks earlier by Merrill's two top competitors, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, and could be a harbinger of weaker earnings for Wall Street's top investment banks. 
 Unlike its peers, Merrill's earnings included June, when the confluence of rising interest rates and stagnant stock market activity made it especially difficult for Merrill to make money trading for its clients and its own account. 
 For the quarter, earnings rose 10 percent, to $1.08 billion, or $1.06 a share, compared with $977 million, or $1 a share, in the period a year earlier. Net revenue, or revenue minus interest expense, was little changed at $5.3 billion. The second-quarter results missed Wall Street expectations of $1.09 a share and were down 13 percent compared with those in the first quarter.
 Most tellingly, revenue in the principal-transactions business declined 44 percent from the previous year and 40 percent from the earlier quarter. 
 Despite promises by Merrill's executives to continue with their aggressive program to buy back stock, investors reacted negatively to the results, sending shares down $1.67, or 3.2 percent, to $49.80.
 Unlike other big Wall Street firms, Merrill has traditionally not been overly aggressive in deploying its own capital for trading. But under E. Stanley O'Neal, its chief executive, the firm has made a large financial commitment to its trading business and has enjoyed the fruits of such investments in recent quarters.
 Gaps still remain on the trading desk, however, especially in commodities and foreign exchange, where Merrill lags Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley despite a recent spate of hiring.
 ''The summer slowdown has taken hold and Merrill took a defensive trading posture,'' said Richard Strauss, a securities analyst at Deutsche Bank. ''Equity volumes are weak. It's going to be a more challenging quarter for all investment banks.''
 The slump in trading profits was mitigated somewhat by investment banking, where revenue increased 10 percent from a year earlier. 
 Mr. O'Neal, a former chief financial officer of the firm who has reined in Merrill's free-spending ways, continues to hold the line on expenses: compensation costs, the largest expense item for the company, declined 15 percent compared with the first quarter.
 Among the stronger units was the asset-management division, with pretax earnings up 77 percent from the period a year earlier thanks to improved margins and increased asset values. 
 The improved performance comes as top executives have contemplated a series of strategic options for the division, including a partial sale to Legg Mason, the Baltimore-based fund company.
 Executives briefed on these talks have described them as exploratory, and Merrill Lynch declined to comment yesterday on any discussions with outside companies.
 Ahmass Fakahany, the chief financial officer, did say, however, that Merrill would continue to seek ways to foster growth within the asset-management business.
 ''We are focused on growth and that includes open architecture, third-party distribution and joint ventures,'' Mr. Fakahany said. ''The business is on the rebound.''
 While Mr. Fakahany declined to go into specifics about what kind of joint venture the firm might pursue, Robert C. Doll Jr., the president of the investment management division, has spoken publicly of the possibility of Merrill's owning less than 100 percent of the asset management unit.
 As Mr. O'Neal promised, Merrill continued to hire more brokers, taking on 300 for the quarter, to reach a level of 14,000 globally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Company Reports ; Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); LEGG MASON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); LM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (79%) Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



280 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Politicking on Marriage

 BODY:
It is heartening to see that the Republicans who had hoped to score political points today by holding a Senate vote on adding a ban on same-sex marriage to the Constitution have run into unexpectedly broad resistance across the ideological spectrum. Liberals and moderates opposed to writing bigotry into the Constitution are being joined by a growing number of conservatives who see nothing conservative about federalizing marriage law or turning America's most essential legal document into an election-year football. With support for the amendment now well below the necessary 67 senators, the calls to put it to a vote just before the Democratic National Convention are nothing more than divisive politics. The Senate should let the Federal Marriage Amendment die a quiet death. 
 Early in the election season, Republicans seized on gay marriage as a promising cultural issue to use against Democrats. Republicans have been working hard to put referendums against gay marriage on individual state ballots to draw religious conservatives to the polls in November. In Washington, Congressional Republicans have been eager to schedule a vote on the Federal Marriage Amendment to force Democrats -- particularly Senators John Kerry and John Edwards, who oppose both gay marriage and the amendment -- to take a public stand.
 One great surprise of this campaign, however, has been just how little traction the issue is getting. Polls show that even many voters who oppose gay marriage do not favor the drastic step of amending the Constitution to prohibit it. And most Americans have the good sense to realize that, whatever their feelings about same-sex marriage, issues like the economy and the war in Iraq matter much more. When President Bush campaigned recently in Ohio, where conservatives are trying to put a gay-marriage ban on the ballot, he was greeted by a newspaper advertisement taken out by a gay-rights group that said: ''Jobs lost in Ohio since 2001: 255,000; gay marriages in Ohio: 0. Focus on Americans' real priorities, Mr. President.''
 Even many conservative Republicans, it turns out, do not favor a constitutional amendment. In Washington State, George Nethercutt, the conservative Republican congressman running against Senator Patty Murray, has joined Ms. Murray in opposing it. Lynne Cheney, the vice president's wife and a leading cultural conservative in her own right, said recently that states should take the lead in deciding issues relating to marriage.
 Now it appears that the Federal Marriage Amendment may not have the support of a Senate majority, much less the two-thirds that constitutional amendments need. Since the effort appears futile, backers of the amendment seem to be trifling with the issue simply to rally their base. The Constitution, the embodiment of American democracy, deserves better than that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARRIAGE LAW (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); IRAQ WAR (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%) Marriages; Editorials; Election Issues; Constitutional Amendments; Homosexuality; Elections; Presidential Election of 2004; Elections

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (73%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



281 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Turns a Step Back Into a Stride Ahead

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg figured out a way yesterday to turn bad news, like Citigroup's decision to move 1,900 jobs out of Lower Manhattan, into a ray of economic sunshine. 
 He announced that Citigroup, the city's largest private employer, would erect a $200 million office building in Long Island City, Queens, and had promised to increase its work force by 600 over the next two years.
 The fact that Citigroup was pulling 1,600 technology jobs out of the still-wounded precincts of Lower Manhattan and sending them to a corporate campus in Warren, N.J., did not even come up until the seventh paragraph of a nine-paragraph mayoral news release. That is where it also mentioned that another 300 bank jobs would depart for Melville, on Long Island. 
 ''Yes, some jobs are going to New Jersey, but more jobs are coming here, and that's the trend that you want,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference. ''You will always lose some kinds of jobs. The question is: Are you making New York an attractive place so that you have more jobs coming in than going out, and are the jobs coming in the higher-value jobs which give New York more of a future? And I think this is a very positive announcement.''
 The mayor told reporters that Citigroup had promised to replace the existing 1,900 jobs over the next two years with higher-paying jobs. Citigroup's president, Robert B. Willumstad, said the bank would not give up any space in Lower Manhattan. 
 The bank said it would add 2,500 jobs in all to its New York payroll over the next two years. Subtract the 1,900 jobs lost to the suburbs and you have a net gain of 600, if the bank's projections are met. 
 ''It's a great way to make lemonade from lemons,'' said Harvey Robins, once an aide to two previous mayors, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. ''But I hope the bank's promises don't turn sour. We need jobs today, not a promise tomorrow. We're still 200,000 jobs behind where we were before 9/11.''
 In New Jersey, Gov. James E. McGreevey did not gloat about stealing jobs from Manhattan (unlike his predecessors) when he held his own news conference in Trenton yesterday. In fact, he did not even mention New York. 
 He said that thanks to a tax break worth $57 million over 10 years, Citigroup planned to move 1,600 ''out-of-state jobs'' to a corporate campus in Warren (the former home of Lucent Technologies), and create 650 jobs.
 As for Long Island City, Citigroup said it would build a 14-story, 475,000- square-foot building for 1,500 workers across the street from its existing 48-story office building on Court Square.
 It plans to move 800 people from Midtown and add another 700 jobs over time. 
 ''Citigroup is the city's largest private-sector employer,'' the mayor said in the release, ''and will get even bigger with the construction of this beautiful new building and commitment to create more jobs in New York City.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) Banks and Banking; Labor; Relocation of Personnel; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Warren (NJ); Melville (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



282 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; 2004 CAMPAIGN: STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: In Bush's War Room, the Gloves Are Always Off

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., July 13 

 BODY:
Shortly before 2 p.m. on Monday, a handful of President Bush's campaign aides huddled around two small speakers in a room that, with its shades drawn, was lit by the glow of 15 television monitors. They were listening to the voice of Senator John Kerry.
 None of the networks were carrying Mr. Kerry's entire speech to a group of financial donors, mostly women, in Boston that day. But Mr. Bush's operatives had somehow arranged for their own audio feed, they refused to say how, and were listening intently, ready to pounce on any opening for attack.
 After sitting impatiently through what seemed to be a typical stump speech, they found one: Mr. Kerry said he was ''proud'' of votes by him and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, last fall against the president's requested $87 billion appropriation for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is a vote that Republicans have used to make a case that Mr. Kerry has been failing to support the troops after voting to authorize the war. 
 Within an hour or so, Mr. Bush's team, at the campaign's headquarters in a corporate office building in suburban Virginia, across the Potomac River from the White House, had sent a release via e-mail to hundreds of journalists, supporters and campaign surrogates. The e-mail message included the new quote and one from September, when Mr. Kerry implied it would be ''irresponsible'' to vote against such spending. The quotation, along with the idea that Mr. Kerry's position on the money had evolved, found its way onto Fox News and into articles in The Washington Post, USA Today, The New York Times, The Boston Globe and The Associated Press.
 And this was a relatively slow day in Mr. Bush's war room. 
 Several journalists who cover Mr. Kerry later said they were too embarrassed to say publicly that it took the Bush operatives to spot what was notable in Mr. Kerry's remarks. 
 Though far more technologically advanced, Mr. Bush's war room was built in the mold of Bill Clinton's pioneering effort in 1992, which combined campaign research and communications staff members to collect and disburse information to the news media, which are crucial in shaping perceptions and candidates, as quickly as possible.
 That operation was rooted in defense, born of the Democrats' vows to never again allow Republican attacks to go unanswered the way they believed they did during the 1988 race between Michael S. Dukakis and George Bush.
 Mr. Bush's operation, however, is rooted more in offense, devised to seek out and exploit every possible opportunity to paint Mr. Kerry as a political equivocator who switches positions on important issues when it suits his political interest. 
 As such, the war room is the nerve center of what Democrats, and some presidential scholars, have called the most relentlessly negative re-election campaign in memory -- and what Republicans say is a necessarily energetic drive to hold Mr. Kerry to a record they say is rife with contradictions. On a daily basis, the assembled Republicans hope to pick new fights based on Mr. Kerry's most recent statements, and those from his past.
 The central tenet of Mr. Bush's communications operation is on a sign on the office door of Nicolle Devenish, Mr. Bush's campaign communications director, which says: ''It's the Hypocrisy, Stupid,'' a play on the famous sign in Mr. Clinton's 1992 war room, ''It's the Economy, Stupid.''
 ''When you run against an opponent who is both a committed liberal and a committed flip-flopper, you have to have all that research about him all of the time,'' Ms. Devenish said. ''Because he's going to go on the trail and say something ludicrous, like he did last week when he said 'I share your conservative values,' and you need to rapidly provide reporters with evidence to the contrary.''
 In that case, after Mr. Kerry told reporters in Cloquet, Minn., in early July, ''I actually represent the conservative values that they feel.'' Mr. Kerry has, at times, said he was referring to fiscal policy and health care costs when addressing the values debate. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign responded with a list of examples that it says belie the notion that Mr. Kerry does have conservative values, including votes against the death penalty and for higher taxes.
 Of course, Mr. Kerry's campaign has a war room, as well. And it has been credited with not only defending Mr. Kerry from Republican charges quickly but also taking the offensive, as it did recently against Mr. Bush over high gasoline prices. Speaking of his Bush campaign opponents, Chad Clanton, a spokesman in Mr. Kerry's war room said Tuesday, ''They're doing an incredible job of trying to mop up after a failed administration that's made America less safe and less secure.''
 Reporters who cover the campaigns say Mr. Kerry's war room has grown competitive with that of Mr. Bush, but only in recent weeks. Not distracted by primary opponents, Mr. Bush's war room was well in place when Mr. Kerry's campaign was still moving to more of a general election footing.
 Mr. Bush's campaign agreed to requests from two news organizations to observe the war room's activities for a day; Mr. Kerry's campaign denied the same request. The visit, which lasted from 5 a.m. to nearly 8 p.m. Monday, provided an unusual glimpse into the Bush campaign's daily efforts to discredit Mr. Kerry.
 The room has three long tables lined with computers. Most are staffed by college students or recent graduates who constantly monitor politically oriented Web sites and watch the television monitors, which are regularly tuned to all of the major cable and financial news networks, the various C-Span feeds and the major broadcast networks.
 The core war room staff of eight begins its workday at 5 a.m. But it is a 24-hour operation, fueled by Coca-Cola, coffee and Slurpees. Overnight three to four interns watch the late news programs, the late-night comedy shows and the Internet for any campaign news. One critical overnight job is to collect the most important items from the morning newspapers. 
 Another task is to seek any new clues in local papers about planned appearances by Mr. Kerry, Mr. Edwards or their prominent surrogates so that the campaign can plan to send its own friendly state representatives to speak against the Kerry campaign. The schedule, which is sent out to senior Bush communications aides, is titled ''Wild-Eyed Watch.'' 
 The Monday morning papers included no great revelations about Mr. Kerry and his new running mate. 
 The schedule, as far as the war room staff could figure it, had Mr. Kerry making appearances in Boston and heading to Orlando, Fla., to address firemen and rescue workers on Wednesday. At a meeting of policy and communications aides, Steve Schmidt, Mr. Bush's deputy communications director, directed his staff to plan a conference call for Orlando reporters with Representative Adam H. Putman of Florida, to criticize Mr. Kerry on various votes.
 Noting that a fund-raising concert for Mr. Kerry featuring Jackson Browne was scheduled for Monday night, Mr. Schmidt instructed staff members who deal with reporters to remind them of the Friday night fund-raising concert for Mr. Kerry at which Whoopi Goldberg used lewd jokes to deride Mr. Bush, undercutting Mr. Kerry's assertion of representing conservative values. ''They've probably got a trap door on the stage this time,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 For all of the planning for action, and determination to show off its war room to the press, Monday was shaping up as a very dry day. Mr. Kerry, it turned out, was not making his trip to Orlando. The White House was taking the lead on the front of daily battle as Mr. Bush defended his rationale for war. Mr. Kerry's schedule was somewhat limited, which reduced the opportunities for material for the war room staff members. After CNN featured a news segment about an Iguana stuck in a tree, Ms. Devenish declared it one of the slowest news days in memory. The senior staff in the room seemed bored as interns clicked away on the Internet.
 But Mr. Kerry's pronouncement that he was proud of the vote against the $87 billion appropriation gave the war room something to attack. He was actually referring to Mr. Edwards when he said: ''I'm proud to say that John joined me in voting against that $87 billion when we knew the policy had to be changed.''
 After Republicans sent an e-mail message about the comment to their vast list of reporters, Mr. Schmidt followed up with telephone calls to select reporters traveling with Mr. Kerry to make sure they noticed it. ''The news of the day,'' Mr. Schmidt proclaimed in one phone call to a reporter, ''is an evolution on the $87 billion. Now John Kerry said he was proud.'' (Mr. Kerry's campaign argued that Mr. Kerry has always stood by his vote and that the Bush campaign was making something out of nothing particularly new. )
 On Tuesday, Mr. Bush's aides, while careful not to credit themselves for persuading reporters to jump on the quote, were clearly pleased that it popped up in many articles. Even so, they were not entirely satisfied. Mr. Schmidt said he would ask some of the campaign's surrogates to bring it up again during television appearances.
 But in the end, surrogates were not necessary. Mr. Bush, apprised of the quote by campaign aides, brought it up in a speech in Michigan on Tuesday, saying, ''Members of Congress should not vote to send troops into battle and then vote against funding them. And then brag about it.'' 
 That sound bite was featured prominently near the beginning of ''World News Tonight'' on ABC on Tuesday. The program's average, nightly audience far outreaches any single newspaper: more than eight million people.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tucker Eskew, right, a Bush campaign adviser, waiting to go live on a news show to respond to Democrats. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Joe Kildea, the manager of the Bush campaign's war room, at his computer in Arlington, Va. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; News and News Media; Research; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



283 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Shares Don't Move Much as More Earnings Are Awaited

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks were narrowly mixed yesterday despite solid results from Johnson & Johnson and several banking companies, as investors waited for Intel's earnings report after the close of trading.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.37 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,247.59. Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.79 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,115.14, while the Nasdaq composite index was down 5.26, or 0.3 percent, at 1,931.66. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 0.45, or 0.1 percent, at 562.69.
 Despite the negativity surrounding earnings -- Merrill Lynch, for example, missed its earnings estimates yesterday -- some analysts saw reasons for hope.
 ''I think some of the earnings expectations have been lowered over the past few weeks, and that'll be built into prices,'' said Doug Sandler, chief equity strategist at Wachovia Securities. ''That does give us some room to the upside of this trading range we're stuck in should earnings come in strong.''
 The Commerce Department's latest report on the trade deficit gave the market a lift. The deficit narrowed to $46 billion in May, dropping 4.5 percent from April's record. American exports had their best month on record, the department said, helped in part by a weaker dollar.
 But investor focus remained with earnings and, in particular, companies' outlooks for the second half of the year, which call for slower growth rates. Add that to concerns over terrorism, election-year politics and ever-present interest rate concerns, and investors ''are going to be sitting on their hands,'' said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany.
 ''What we see right now is the market bumping up against a wall of worry,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''For every investor, there's something to worry about. And that's why, even though the second quarter should come in strong, it won't be enough to really spark anything.''
 Investors were looking to Intel's results for a better read on the health of the technology sector, which was hit hard over the last week with analyst downgradings and lowered outlooks. Intel's forecasts for the third quarter and for the year, while strong, were somewhat disappointing for investors. 
 Intel, which posted a profit of 27 cents a share, closed the regular session down 10 cents, at $26.14, and the stock fell $1.26, to $24.88, in after-hours trading.
 Johnson & Johnson, citing its pharmaceuticals and medical devices, said sales climbed 11.1 percent from a year ago. The company earned $2.5 billion in the quarter, or 82 cents a share, beating Wall Street estimates by 3 cents a share. The shares climbed 49 cents, to $55.38.
 Merrill Lynch fell $1.67, to $49.80, after missing Wall Street expectations by 3 cents a share for the second quarter because of losses from investment banking and overseas businesses. The rest of the financial sector was mixed even as three banks all beat expectations for the quarter. BB&T was down 12 cents, at $37.26; AmSouth Bancorp gained 12 cents, to $24.91; and Commerce Banc fell 92 cents, to $54.26.
 In its first day on the New York Stock Exchange, Domino's Pizza traded at $13.50, which was 50 cents below its offering price of $14 a share.
 Advancing issues barely outnumbered decliners on the Big Board, where volume came to 1.2 billion shares, compared with 1.13 billion on Monday.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Notes Fall
(By Bloomberg News)
 Treasury notes fell yesterday for the first day in five on speculation that yields, which move in the opposite direction from the price, are too low given the prospects for faster inflation and rising interest rates. The benchmark 10-year note had its biggest decline since June 28, falling 6/32, to 102 7/32, by late in the day. The yield rose to 4.47 percent, from 4.44 percent, on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.910
High Rate: 1.155
Coupon Yield: 1.174
Low Rate: 1.140
Median Rate: 1.150
Total applied for: $50,665,637
Accepted: $25,024,017
Noncompetitive: $50,656

The four-week bills mature Aug. 12, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph compares yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (95%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (95%); JNJ (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



284 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bank in Japan Proposes Giant Merger With Rival
In a move that could lead to the creation of the world's biggest bank, UFJ Holdings of Japan said that it was proposing a merger with the Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group.
 UFJ said its board had agreed at a meeting to ask Mitsubishi Tokyo to consider a deal. Executives are aiming to combine their operations by March 2005 under a single holding company, according to a UFJ official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. If completed, the merger would create a bank with $1.7 trillion in assets, which would make it larger than Citigroup. [Page C3.]

Merrill Income Less Than Expected
Merrill Lynch reported weaker-than-expected second-quarter earnings as a slump in the markets curbed the firm's once robust trading profits. The results stand in stark contrast to the hearty second-quarter profits posted weeks earlier by Merrill's two top competitors, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, and could be a harbinger of weaker earnings for Wall Street's top investment banks. [C8.]

Lucent Has Large Verizon Contract
Lucent Technologies announced that it had signed a contract to supply $5 billion worth of equipment, software and services to Verizon Wireless. [C7.]

Restatement to Cut Nortel Income
Nortel Networks, under investigation by United States and Canadian regulators, said a restatement of its results would probably cut 2003 net income in half. [C7.]

WPP Weighs Bid for Grey Global
The WPP Group, the agency company, is weighing a possible bid for the Grey Global Group of New York. Advertising. [C2.]

U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in May
The trade deficit in the United States narrowed in May for the first time in six months as exports surged to a record. [C3.]

Google Buys Photo Technology Firm
Google said that it had acquired Picasa, which makes technology to help consumers organize and display photos online. [C4.]

Stocks Show Little Movement
Stocks were narrowly mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.37 points, to 10,247.59. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.79 points, and the Nasdaq composite index was down 5.26 points, at 1,931.66. [C8.]

Shares of Domino's Pizza fell 3.6 percent after it sold $336.9 million of stock in an initial public offering. [C8.]

Courting Poor, Brazil Retailer Rises
Under the management of Luiza Helena Trajano Rodrigues, Magazine Luiza has gone from being a relatively small department store chain to Brazil's third-largest nonfood retailer in just over a decade. And it has done so by assiduously courting the poor. The company has also managed to weather the country's volatile economy, turning a profit every year since 1992. [World Business, Section W.]

Gannett Posts 9.3% Gain in Profit
The Gannett Company said that second-quarter profit rose 9.3 percent. [C8.]

Delta to Take $1.65 Billion Charge
Delta Air Lines said it would take a $1.65 billion charge in the second quarter largely related to income taxes. [C8.]

Deals Revive With Hotel Industry
As business travelers take to the road again, the hotel industry is being revived, and so are deals. Commercial Real Estate. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,247.59 up 9.37Nasdaq composite -- 1,931.66 down 5.2610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.47% up 0.03The euro -- $1.2327 down 0.0077The dollar -- 108.85 yen up 0.62Graph: ''TODAY'' shows retail sales figures from December 2003 to May 2004.Retail SalesJune figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.8%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Merrill Lynch shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); RETAILERS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (82%); GANNETT CO INC (80%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (67%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (67%); WPP PLC (67%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (52%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (94%); 8306 (TSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); GCI (NYSE) (80%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (67%); WPP (LSE) (67%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%); DPZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (67%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004



285 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Australia Trade Pact

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14 

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved a free trade agreement with Australia on Wednesday, despite last minute concerns that the pact could hamper congressional efforts to allow imports of lower-priced medicine.
 The House voted 314-to-109 to pass the first United States free trade agreement with a developed country since a 1989 deal with Canada. 
The Senate Finance Committee voted 17-to-4 in favor of the agreement, setting up a full Senate vote on Thursday. 
 The pact ''brings the United States and Australia closer together economically,'' said the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Bill Thomas, Republican of California. ''No two countries in the world are closer in terms of their views of the world, especially in terms of strategic military concerns.'' 
 Australia has been an ally of the United States in the Iraq war.
 The vote is a victory for the Bush administration, which has pursued an ambitious agenda of trade negotiations since taking office. The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, called it ''the most significant immediate reduction of industrial tariffs ever achieved in a U.S. free trade agreement.''
 Manufacturers pushed hard for the pact, which they estimate could increase their exports to Australia by close to $2 billion in the first year. 
 More than 90 percent of United States exports to Australia are manufactured goods, and the agreement would eliminate nearly all of Australia's tariffs on those products if it takes force as scheduled, on Jan. 1, 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%) 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (68%) Australia; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



286 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Permits 3 Cancer Drugs From Cuba

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The federal government is permitting a California biotechnology company to license three experimental cancer drugs from Cuba, making an exception to the policy of tightly restricting trade with that country. 
 The company, CancerVax, had said late last year that it was trying to license the drugs and had been awaiting needed permission from the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. That permission has been granted, and CancerVax is expected to announce it today. 
 CancerVax executives said that it was the first time an American biotechnology company had obtained permission to license a drug from Cuba, a country that some industry executives and scientists say is surprisingly strong in biotechnology for a developing nation. In 1999, SmithKline Beecham, a large conventional pharmaceutical company now known as GlaxoSmithKline, licensed a Cuban vaccine for meningitis B that it is testing in clinical trials. 
 ''I think there are other product candidates and technology in Cuba that could be helpful to the American people, not just the American people but people around the world,'' said David F. Hale, chief executive of CancerVax, a newly public company that does not yet have any drugs on the market. Mr. Hale said that he had been pursuing the Cuban drugs since he first saw a poster about the work at an American cancer conference three years ago.
 A spokesman for the State Department, which helps rule on such licenses, said that the exception had been made because of the life-saving potential of the experimental Cuban drugs and that the license approval did not represent a relaxation of the trade policy. 
 ''These three drugs are claimed to be revolutionary life-saving medications,'' said the spokesman, who agreed to comment only if not identified by name. ''As such, upon review it was decided that the company should have an opportunity to further research and verify the claims about these drugs.'' 
 CancerVax, which is based in Carlsbad, Calif., plans to test the drugs in clinical trials and bring them to market if they pass muster. The first one, Mr. Hale said, which has already shown some promise in small trials, could reach the market in 2008 or 2009.
 The licensing deal calls for CancerVax to pay $6 million over the next three years, during the development stage. If products reach the market, the company would pay up to $35 million more. 
 As a government condition of allowing the license, payments to Cuba during the developmental phase would be in goods like food or medical supplies, to avoid providing the Cuban government with currency. Any payments after drugs reach the market, Mr. Hale said, could be half in cash. 
 The agreement comes shortly after the Bush administration put into effect new restrictions on visits to Cuba and cash remittances by Americans. 
 The administration has also stated that it believes Cuba has at least a limited biological weapons research effort and that it has provided biotechnology to other ''rogue states'' that might be used either for medical purposes or in development of biological weapons. The Cuban government has denied it is developing such weapons. 
 Representatives from both parties had sent letters to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell urging that permission be granted on medical grounds. 
 One letter writer, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Democrat from Connecticut, hailed the government decision as good news in a statement issued yesterday. ''Saving lives shouldn't be a political issue,'' he said. 
 H.P. Goldfield and Richard A. Popkin, Washington lawyers hired by CancerVax to help win approval, said there had been no real opposition.
 ''At the worst, some officials in Congress did not support us but they did not in any way try to oppose the license,'' said Mr. Goldfield, who is with the firm Hogan & Hartson. 
 But Mr. Goldfield and Mr. Popkin, who is with the firm of Swidler Berlin Shereff Friedman, said the CancerVax approval was more difficult to obtain than SmithKline's license because of the Bush administration's tougher policy toward Cuba. 
 Cuba already sells some biotechnology drugs in countries other than the United States, said Jose de la Fuente, the former head of research and development at the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology in Havana. The drugs include a hepatitis B vaccine and a treatment for heart attacks called streptokinase. 
 Dr. de la Fuente, who is now a research professor at Oklahoma State University, said the move into biotechnology began in the early 1980's after Fidel Castro heard about interferons -- immune system proteins that were viewed back then as potential cancer cures -- during a visit to Cuba by the president of M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
 More than $1 billion was spent over the years to build and operate research institutes on the west side of Havana staffed by Cuban scientists, many of them educated in Europe, Dr. de la Fuente said. But he said that the Cuban program has become weaker because the government had started to exercise more control over the scientists and because of economic pressures. 
 Still, John S. Kavulich II, the president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, a nonprofit organization in New York, said Cuba had a few drugs that have interested other American companies. 
 He said one other drug-licensing deal had already been approved by Washington. An American company, that he said he was not at liberty to identify, had licensed a drug called PPG, derived from sugar cane, that was used to lower cholesterol and was also reputed to be the Cuban equivalent of Viagra for erectile dysfunction. The Treasury Department does not confirm or deny licensing approvals.
 The Cuban drugs that CancerVax is obtaining were developed by the Center of Molecular Immunology in Havana. They were first licensed to YM Biosciences, a Canadian company. YM Biosciences is transferring those rights to CancerVax. Mr. Hale said YM Biosciences had apparently decided to concentrate on some drugs that were further along in development. David G.P. Allan, YM's chief executive, did not return a call seeking comment. 
 The Cuban drugs in question are so-called cancer vaccines, which attempt to harness the body's immune system to fight tumors.
 While the concept of cancer vaccines have excited researchers, the field has been littered with disappointments. CancerVax's own main drug is a melanoma vaccine that has been in development by an academic scientist for 40 years and is only now in the final phase of clinical trials.
 The lead drug from Cuba aims to thwart epidermal growth factor, a protein in the body that can spur the growth of cancer cells when it binds to them. 
 The approach is different from the new cancer drug Erbitux, developed by ImClone Systems, which blocks the epidermal growth factor receptor, the docking port on cancer cells to which the growth factor binds.
 The Cuban vaccine, instead of trying to block the receptor, links the growth factor to a bacterial protein, which is injected into the body. Doing so is supposed to stimulate the immune system to make antibodies that attack the growth factor. 
 The drug has already been tested in small clinical trials outside the United States. In one trial, according to data presented last month at the American Society for Clinical Oncology meeting, patients with advanced lung cancer who got the vaccine lived longer than those who did not receive the treatment. 
 Mr. Hale said CancerVax planned to put the drug into phase 2 trials, the middle stage of testing. 
 The second drug, which has not yet entered clinical trials, is a similar vaccine aimed at transforming growth factor-alpha, another protein that can stimulate cancer cell growth by binding to the epidermal growth factor receptor.
 The third, also not in clinical trials, is aimed at stimulating antibodies to the receptor.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on July 15 about the licensing of three experimental cancer drugs from Cuba by a California biotechnology company, CancerVax, included an erroneous reference from the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council about the status of another Cuban drug, PPG, which is used to lower cholesterol. The federal government has not given permission for an American company to license it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dana Buckman, who is a senior research associate at CancerVax, which is based in Carlsbad, Calif., is working on fluorescent-stained cells. (Photo by Crissy Pascual/San Diego Union Tribune)(pg. C1)
 A scientist takes a sample to be examined under a microscope at the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology in Havana. (Photo by Cristobal Herrera/Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); CANCER (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); IMMUNOLOGY (70%); MENINGITIS (69%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) 

COMPANY: MICROMET INC (92%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Cancervax (Co); State Department; Center of Molecular Immunology (Cuba)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (LSE) (91%); BIOC (EGX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



287 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Close Call On Broadway Had Its Roots On the Road

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Broadway almost went on strike this week over an issue that had almost nothing to do with Broadway.
 The issue at the heart of the dispute between actors and producers, who averted a work stoppage with a tentative new contract brokered on Monday afternoon, was not the state of the theatrical economy in New York or the treatment of actors or their pay. Those issues were relatively cut and dried: actors would get annual raises through 2008, when even the lowliest spear carrier will make more than $1,500 a week for being on Broadway (not to mention pension and health care).
 Where things got dicey, however, was ''the road,'' that collection of 65 or so theaters around the country that feature touring versions of Broadway shows and bring in hundreds of millions of dollars for the tours' producers. Traditionally, major touring shows have been sanctioned by Actor's Equity, featuring professionally accredited -- and professionally paid -- actors. 
 But in the last decade, as costs have risen, and the number of bankable blockbusters has fallen, some road presenters have been increasingly reliant on booking cheaper, non-Equity tours that cut deeply into the employment opportunities for union actors. Likewise, the producers of Broadway shows have licensed non-Equity tours, including a recent revival of ''Oklahoma!,'' whose producer, Cameron Mackintosh, decided it would simply be too expensive to take on the road as an Equity show.
 For actors, the rise of non-Equity tours has been a growing crisis. In the last five years, officials of Equity, the union of actors and stage managers, estimated there has been a 40-percent decrease in the number of work weeks on the road. This has led to a concomitant loss of income for its members, dues paid to the union and contributions to the union's health fund. Last year, the officials said, the Equity health plan lost $16 million. 
 So when the old contract expired on June 27, Equity knew its priority: stop the spread of non-Equity tours.
 ''The goal of these negotiations was to try to get as much of the road back as we could,'' said Alan Eisenberg, the union's executive director. 
 To that end, the union took a hard line, threatening to shut down Broadway -- a ventricle if not the actual heart of New York's tourist industry -- to save jobs in the hinterlands. It was a gamble that some producers doubted the union had the will to take. As one producer put it, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of breaking the fragile peace, ''You can't ask someone in New York to go on strike for a month for something that has nothing to do with them.''
 But Mr. Eisenberg said that was exactly what the union planned to do. The union was prepared to strike on Monday night; a press release announcing the action had been drafted, and other preparations made. 
 ''We had people on the road ready, we had walkie-talkies,'' he said, adding that picketers were even ready for rain: ''We had ponchos, too.'' 
 But the League of American Theaters and Producers, the producers' collective bargaining group, was upset by recent deals cut by the union with nonleague producers to allow Equity actors to go out on the road for substantially reduced rates, as they will in a coming tour of ''Evita.'' If nonleague producers were getting deals from Equity, the league's logic went, why shouldn't they?
 So producers wanted concessions, and the union wanted work. In theory the new contract provides both. 
 The central element of the new pact, which still has to be reviewed by the union's governing council, is an ''experimental touring program'' that sets up several different levels of pay for different types of tours, depending on several variables, including guarantees. Actors on major ''first national'' tours of shows like ''Wicked'' will still earn top dollar, but those on lesser shows will get rates from 20 to 40 percent lower. 
 Union officials say they strongly believe that if they bend on their rates, even nonleague producers should be able to afford to send out Equity companies on lower-tier contracts, which the union hopes will lower the number of non-Equity tours. 
 So the only people who should be upset are the poncho salesman. But will the new deal work? Mr. Eisenberg says he believes so, but membership will no doubt be watching carefully. The contract states that the tiering plan can be voided after three years.
 Jed Bernstein, the president of the league, said the deal reflected a new reality, in which regional presenters have a limited number of blockbusters to book -- ''Hairspray,'' ''The Producers'' -- and many slots to fill.
 The road is a far less certain bet than it used to be, as evidenced by the recent decision by the producers of ''Avenue Q,'' the Tony Award winner for best musical this year, to opt instead for an open-ended run in Las Vegas. ''Each side recognized that there needed to be a new economic model,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''It was no great secret that the road had to be restructured. The question was how.'' 
 Both sides also won some smaller victories, too: actors got increases in health fund contributions, and some profit sharing, a first. And producers got some concessions on fees paid to actors for promotions. 
 But the issue of tours might not be completely dead. Some producers argue that the reason some road presenters were willing to book non-Equity tours is that the quality of non-Equity tours has improved. 
 Mr. Eisenberg strongly rejects that. He also said he believed that road tours and Broadway are inextricably linked.
 ''We think that Equity talent is more professional, and we think that's crucial to the quality of work,'' he said. ''And it comes back to New York. We think that people see tours and think it's reflective of what's on Broadway. So really, it's Broadway's reputation that's at stake.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); STRIKES (90%); WORK WEEK (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ACCREDITATION (53%); TOURISM (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Actors' Equity; League of American Theaters and Producers

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



288 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Commerce Chief Quits Amid Growing Financial Scandal

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 14 

 BODY:
William D. Watley, the embattled New Jersey commerce secretary, resigned Wednesday afternoon, ending weeks of speculation about his future in the midst of a financial scandal at the state's Commerce and Economic Growth Commission.
 Dr. Watley, who is also pastor of the St. James A.M.E. Church in Newark, has not been tied personally to any financial irregularities at the commission. But pressure for his resignation grew in Trenton as questions emerged about contracts issued by the agency and expenses filed by a senior staff member. 
 ''Despite the swirl of speculation and innuendo my departure may generate, I leave this office with my pride intact,'' Dr. Watley wrote in a letter delivered to Gov. James E. McGreevey. He said he was ''confident in knowing that an objective evaluation of my tenure will confirm that I discharged my duties responsibly.'' Dr. Watley declined to be interviewed. 
 The McGreevey administration said that the governor had not requested Dr. Watley's resignation and would have supported a decision to stay in his post. The governor's spokesman, Micah Rasmussen, said Dr. Watley had asked to return to his ministry several months ago but had agreed to remain at the governor's request.
 In recent weeks, Dr. Watley has been criticized for lobbying on behalf of development projects undertaken by an affiliate of his church. The state's Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency canceled an $11.5 million loan for a housing project in Newark last week after questions arose about Dr. Watley's public support of the proposed development.
 Dr. Watley's resignation comes as criminal investigators for the state attorney general are examining records obtained from the commission last month. Attorney General Peter C. Harvey opened an investigation after state auditors uncovered a series of irregularities during a routine examination of the commission's records.
 The investigation has primarily concerned the activities of Lesly Devereaux, a lawyer who was Dr. Watley's chief of staff at the commission. Auditors raised questions about a contract for computer work awarded to a company owned by Ms. Devereaux's sister, Candace Harper. The questions grew more heated after The Star-Ledger reported last month that Ms. Harper had filed for bankruptcy in New Jersey and had pleaded guilty to embezzlement in North Carolina. 
 Auditors also had concerns about personal expenses that Ms. Devereaux charged to her state credit card, including hotel rooms and airplane tickets.
 Ms. Devereaux, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing, resigned last month, citing health problems.
 Walter Timpone, her lawyer, said no state rules had been broken in awarding the contract to Ms. Devereaux's sister's company. He also said Ms. Devereaux had reimbursed the state for personal expenses and argued that her use of the card was in line with agency policy. 
 The state's Treasury Department said Wednesday that certain employees were allowed to use state credit cards for some travel expenses, provided they paid the bills.
 Mr. Timpone said Ms. Devereaux was being trampled in a fight for political advantage. ''Lesly is getting caught in the middle of a political firestorm and she is being used to batter an already battered governor,'' Mr. Timpone said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); ETHICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LOBBYING (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); AUDITS (68%); EMBEZZLEMENT (67%); GUILTY PLEAS (63%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) New Jersey; Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Politics and Government ; New Jersey

ORGANIZATION: St James African Methodist Episcopal Church (Newark)

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%) John Sullivan; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; William D (Dr) Watley

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



289 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Where Have All The Runners Gone?

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
It has been 32 years since an American man has won an Olympic gold medal in a middle-distance track event. The American record in the mile, 3 minutes 47.69 seconds by Steve Scott, has stood for 22 years. In the middle distances, defined as the 800 meters and the 1,500 meters, there has not been an American man ranked No. 1 in the world since 1980. In the last 20 years, fewer than a dozen Americans have cracked the world's top five at either distance.
 Once a strength, the middle distances have become no man's land for American runners. The gilded footpaths of Jim Ryun, Marty Liquori and Dave Wottle, trod in the golden era of American middle-distance running, remain unchallenged, an unusual failure for American athletes in a glamour event.
 In a nation of 22 million recreational runners, why can't the United States' best men get out of the back of the pack? 
 ''I wish I had an answer,'' Ryun, a Republican United States representative from Kansas, said. ''It is mystifying.''
 And with another Olympic Games approaching, the angst and frustration over America's decline in the middle distances is building anew.
 ''Come on, my mile record is a good time, but it should have been broken by now,'' said Scott, whose American record is 4.56 seconds slower than the world record. ''We have been mediocre for years. Outside of a few individuals, we've gotten worse.''
 Steve Holman, the last American miler to be ranked in the top 10 worldwide -- he was 10th in 1997 -- knows about the growing disenchantment. ''People were anxiously awaiting the next American savior in the mile before I came along,'' Holman, who ran in the 1992 Olympics, said. ''It was something people asked me about all the time. Frankly, that savior didn't come along. Everyone is still waiting.''
 The miler Alan Webb, a former high school phenomenon who has posted promising international results this year, may yet fill the gap, but he remains a long shot in an Olympic-quality field. Webb, 21, is scheduled to run the quarterfinals tonight in the 1,500 meters, the metric equivalent of the mile, at the United States Olympic track and field trials in Sacramento. There is little depth behind Webb among Americans in the event: While he is ranked 21st in the world at 1,500 meters, the next ranked American, Charlie Gruber, is 38th.
 There is no shortage of theories nor lack of debate about why American male middle-distance running has declined. It is a touchy subject in the track world, in part because sprinters from the United States remain among the best in the world, and also because American performances at other nonsprint distances, like the 10,000 meters and the marathon, have been substandard, too.
 Wottle was the last American man to win a middle-distance Olympic gold medal, in the 800 meters in 1972. Days later, his roommate at the Munich Games, Frank Shorter, won the marathon. That is the last Olympic gold medal American men have won in distance running. 
 American women, on the other hand, have largely been more successful at the middle distances. The consensus is that compared with women in other countries, especially those in developing areas of the world, American women have enjoyed significantly superior facilities, opportunities and economic support. The most prominent explanation for what has caused American men to fall behind their top international contemporaries is that there is so much more high-level competition, particularly from runners from African nations like Kenya, Morocco and Ethiopia.
 ''Forty-three countries won track medals at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney,'' Craig Masback, the chief executive of USA Track & Field, said. ''Most Olympic sports don't have 43 countries competing, let alone 43 countries good enough to win a medal.''
 In the 1972 Olympics, athletes from 23 countries won track medals. In 1971, when Liquori was the last American man to be the world's top-ranked 1,500-meter runner, there were two African runners in a top 10 dominated by Europeans. Thirty years later, the top five runners were African, as were two other runners in the top 10.
 But few in the track community think American runners have to concede the middle-distance medal podiums to the fastest Africans. There are essentially two schools of thought about what has been holding the Americans back. One says that the American system of training runners is flawed; the other, which is more damning, says that the latest generation of young American athletes just does not care about running fast miles anymore.
 ''For years now, we haven't had the support system in place for runners after they get out of college,'' said Vin Lananna, who will coach American Olympic runners at the Athens Games next month. ''There are few places for them to train and no way for them to make a living. If you look at countries like Morocco or Spain, they get all their top runners working together under a national coach. In Spain, they have at their disposal all the scientific resources of a national institute for sport.
 ''We are way behind the eight ball on all of that, especially the science of optimal training methods.''
 There have been efforts, paid for by Nike, to bring top American runners together to train. Until recently, Lananna had been a coach at one such enterprise, called the Farm Team.
 ''But that is just a drop in the bucket,'' Lananna said. ''The problem is that our whole sport of track is depending on a handful of shoe companies for its support. How did it become their responsibility to fund a national developmental program?
 ''Every four years, people watch the Olympics and say, 'Hey, what's wrong with the American milers?' It's like using a car once every four years and then wondering why it broke down. It broke down because no one looked after it or changed the oil in the previous three years.''
 But there have been American runners who have found the wherewithal to live and train, for example, with the best African runners. In the mid-1990's, Holman spent six years living in London so he could work out with some of the best Kenyan middle-distance runners. He occasionally spent his winters in Australia training with the Kenyans as well.
 ''What I learned is that their approach is low-tech and not terribly scientific,'' Holman said. ''But I got an education in what hard work is really like. Americans living in our comfortable lifestyle have no idea. The Kenyan system is incredibly intense and their philosophy is survival of the fittest. Every workout is geared to the best guy, and every person every day is maxing out. The two or three guys who survive this setup will be great runners, but you don't hear about the other 100 Kenyans who don't survive. And even their top guys can't maintain that pace forever; they usually break down after a few years.
 ''I don't know if Americans are ready for that philosophy, where the whole group sacrifices for the good of the best couple of guys. Americans tend to care about the individual.''
 Cultural differences, or cultural changes, in the United States are often cited as a factor in the quality of American middle-distance race results. Several former top 1,500 and 800 runners said they wondered if America's youth had become so focused on team sports like soccer, basketball, football and lacrosse that track was losing the top athletes it once could count on.
 ''Soccer is absolutely killing us,'' Scott said. ''Lots of great runners in my day started playing soccer as young kids, and it is great training for a middle-distance runner. When we got older, we tried out for cross-country or track in the off-season. But these days, youth soccer coaches insist their players play soccer year-round. It's no coincidence that the rise of youth soccer corresponds with the fall of American middle-distance running.''
 Others say that there are more choices for America's young athletes than before, noting nontraditional endeavors like skateboarding and extreme sports. Over all, studies indicate that American children are more sedentary than ever; a grueling, long, lonely run is certainly antithetical to a video game lifestyle.
 ''To be a top middle-distance runner, you have to put in a lot of miles,'' said Rich Kenah, an American who won bronze medals in the world indoor and outdoor championships in the 800 meters in 1997. ''Culturally, socially and physically, as a young kid in America, there are plenty of easier things to do. It's easier in the dead of winter to go play a pickup basketball game in a warm gym than it is to put on a ski cap and gloves and run 10 miles in freezing cold.''
 Ryun said: ''I'm sure there are people still willing to make the commitment and the sacrifices it takes to succeed in track, but I agree that other sports have grown in popularity. One of the factors for track has been the public's interest in the sport.''
 Scott said that when he was growing up, everyone knew who Ryun was, and Liquori, too.
 ''We knew them as the best American milers, and that meant something,'' Scott said. ''Ask a kid today, 'Who is the best American miler?' They would shrug their shoulders. They couldn't give you a name.''
 Some in the track world find the frequent harkening back to the glory days of Ryun and Liquori a bit of misguided nostalgia.
 ''We were never as good as we seem to remember being,'' Masback said. ''We were certainly never dominant. America has won one Olympic gold medal in the 1,500, and that was in 1908. We've had some great athletes in the middle distances, but the fact is we've never been as successful at those distances as we have been in the sprints.''
 This has not stopped many people, Masback included, from wondering aloud if Alan Webb is ''the next Jim Ryun.'' The entire track community has been energized by Webb, especially since he has vastly improved his times in recent races.
 ''Just imagine if he won the gold medal at the Olympics,'' Scott said. ''It could happen. He would be the Tiger Woods of track. He would be our new national hero, and our new national hero would be a runner. Do you know what that would mean?
 ''Kids all over the country would go out for a run the next day. Boy, that would be great.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From top, Jim Ryun, Marty Liquori, Dave Wottle and Steve Scott led the golden age of American middle-distance running. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Getty Images)
 Steve Holman (1710) did not place in the 1,500 meters at the Summer Games in Barcelona in 1992. He was ranked 10th worldwide in the mile in 1997. (Photo by Rusty Kennedy/Associated Press)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); RUNNING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); METRIC SYSTEM (89%); RANKINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%) Olympic Games; Track and Field; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics)

PERSON: Bill Pennington; Alan Webb

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



290 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Dropped 1.1% Last Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Retail sales fell more than expected in June, suffering their biggest decline since February 2003, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. The slump underscored forecasts that consumer spending slowed in the second quarter, compared with the previous three months.
 The decline in sales, of 1.1 percent, reflected a drop in spending at car dealerships and department stores and followed a revised 1.4 percent increase in May, the report said. Economists had predicted a 0.8 percent decline. 
 Consumer spending slowed to a 3.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter from 3.8 percent in the previous three months, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News poll from June 26 to July 6. 
 ''We look for June's retail sales drop to be a small bump in the road,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn., who forecast the June decline. ''As long as employment growth remains vigorous, income gains should be sufficient to support robust spending.''
 Retail sales excluding vehicles and parts had been forecast to rise 0.2 percent, after rising 0.9 percent in May; instead, they fell 0.2 percent last month. 
 Economists expected all retail sales to fall after May's previously reported 1.2 percent rise, based on the median forecast of 72 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Retailers said gasoline prices, which rose by a third from a year earlier, left consumers with less to spend in June on clothes and other items.
 Sales at general merchandise stores, which include department stores, fell 0.2 percent last month after rising 1.1 percent in May. Department stores sold 0.8 percent less merchandise last month. Sales at clothing and accessory stores declined 0.5 percent after rising 1.4 percent a month earlier.
 Sales rose 0.5 percent at electronics and appliance stores, 1.1 percent at furniture stores, and 0.6 percent at sporting goods, hobby, book and music outlets. Sales at building material and garden supply stores rose 0.1 percent. Sales fell 0.1 percent at food and beverage stores, and 0.8 percent at restaurants and drinking establishments.
 Purchases excluding autos and building materials, the category used in the Commerce Department's calculation of personal consumption in its report on gross domestic product, fell 0.2 percent after rising 1.1 percent in May.
 A separate Labor Department report showed that import prices fell 0.2 percent in June, the first decline in nine months, on lower costs for petroleum, food and industrial supplies. Excluding energy, the index of import prices was unchanged.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Retail Sales''Graph tracks the total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from Jan. 2003 - June 2004.June: -1.1%May: +1.4April: -0.8(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); SALES FIGURES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (74%); FURNITURE STORES (74%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); IMPORT PRICES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (61%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (50%) 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

TICKER: M (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



291 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: New Group Helps U.S. Jews Move to Israel

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: LOD, Israel, July 14 

 BODY:
With immigration to Israel down sharply in recent years, a charter flight delivered nearly 400 new arrivals from the United States and Canada on Wednesday as part of an expanding program that has been luring middle-class Jews from North America.
 In a sweltering ceremony that filled a huge hanger at Ben-Gurion International Airport, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and two of his cabinet ministers greeted the immigrants moments after they stepped off an El Al jumbo jet from Kennedy Airport in New York.
 ''We have to bring hundreds of thousands of Jews from America to Israel,'' Mr. Sharon said. ''We need them here. It is important for you. It is important for us.'' 
 The immigrants are among 1,500 from the United States and Canada, almost a third of them from New York State, who are arriving this summer under the sponsorship of a private group, Nefesh B'Nefesh, or ''soul to soul.''
 North American Jews, most of whom are comfortably middle-class at home, have traditionally migrated to Israel in small numbers, averaging 3,000 to 5,000 annually for the last quarter-century, according to Israeli government figures.
 But Nefesh B'Nefesh is seeking to raise those figures substantially. In its first try, the group brought in just over 500 immigrants in the summer of 2002. More than 1,000 came last year, despite the continuing Middle East violence and an Israel economy that was just beginning to crawl out of a recession.
 Dr. Jonathan Paley, an orthodontist from Cedarhurst, N.Y., on Long Island, landed with his wife, Sarah, and their five children, ages 11 years to 4 months.
 Dr. Paley, 33, will quickly settle his family in Jerusalem and then commute to New York for two weeks each month to keep working at his old practice until he can establish himself in Israel.
 ''It's not easy, but this is something very important to all of us,'' Dr. Paley said. ''I first came to Israel when I was 11, and I've been dreaming about this ever since.''
 The immigrants said the violence in the Middle East was not a deterrent to immigrating, and in some cases it motivated them to show solidarity with Israel during a time of turmoil. Most of the young men will be required to perform military service.
 ''At some point I expect to serve in the army, which I'll do gladly,'' said Jason Silberman, 25, who was living in Queens and working at a Manhattan law firm.
 While the new arrivals cited personal reasons for coming, the immigration issue is also linked to the demographic battle between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 In the combined areas of Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Jews outnumber Arabs by about 5.4 million to 4.9 million, according to figures from the Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority. But the Arab birthrate is significantly higher, and under the current trends, Arabs will outnumber Jews within the next 10 to 20 years, according to demographers.
 Israel's Jewish population rose with a wave of immigration that began in 1990 as the Soviet Union was collapsing. A year earlier, Israel had just 24,000 immigrants. In 1990, a record 200,000 came, the vast majority from the Soviet Union.
 Immigration has fallen in recent years, because many Jews in economically distressed countries, like the former Soviet republics and Ethiopia, have already left. Last year, immigration fell below 25,000, hitting a 15-year low.
 This year's crop of North American immigrants comes from 33 states and 4 Canadian provinces, and 98 percent of the families have at least one member with an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
 ''We promise we are going to bring many more planes in the future,'' said Rabbi Yehoshua Fass, one of the leaders of Nefesh B'Nefesh.
 Many will be living in Jerusalem or Beit Shemesh, about 20 miles to the west. At least a few new immigrants will be moving to Jewish settlements in the West Bank, a practice that strikes a nerve among Palestinians.
 In recent years, new immigrants from India, Peru and elsewhere have been placed in West Bank settlements on their arrival. On Thursday, 50 French families will be arriving and moving to the West Bank while studying Hebrew, the newspaper Yediot Aharonot reported.
 The Middle East peace plan known as the road map calls for Israel to suspend ''all settlement activity.'' Israel has interpreted this to mean that the development of existing settlements is permissible.
 The Palestinians call for the dismantling of all settlements, which have been built in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip on land that Israel captured in the Arab-Israeli war of 1967. The Palestinians want those territories for a future state.


GRAPHIC: Photo: After arriving yesterday at Ben-Gurion Airport with his wife, Pnina, and their four children, Nachum Eilberg, from Baltimore, held a Torah he brought along. They are going to settle in Kochav Yaakov on the West Bank. (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); CHILDREN (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: Nefesh B'Nefesh (Orgn)

PERSON: Greg Myre

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) ISRAEL (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Israel; Canada; Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



292 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Nalaikh Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Mongols Go From Camels to Jeeps and a Superhighway

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: NALAIKH, Mongolia 

 BODY:
Canada has the Trans-Canada Highway. Brazil has the Trans-Amazon. Germany has the Autobahn, and Russia now has the Trans-Russian. This summer, from westernnmost Tsaganuur to Halhyn Gol in the east, road crews are working to add another to the list, the Mongolian Millennium Highway.
 Long written off as a buffer state between China and Russia, Mongolia, twice the size of Texas but with 13 percent of the population, is embarking on a classic exercise in modern nation building. 
 ''What I understand from reading books and surfing the Internet is that developed countries, like Canada and the United States, greatly spread development through roads,'' said Manduul Baasankhuu, policy director of Mongolia's Road, Transport and Tourism Department. 
 Unrolling a glossy map in his office in Ulan Bator, the capital, he traced a finger over a pink line, the east-west route that is to bind this nation together by the end of the decade.
 The road is to start in the baking plains of the east, home to thundering herds of Mongolian gazelles. Skirting the Gobi desert landscapes of the new documentary film, ''The Story of the Weeping Camel,'' the two-lane asphalt runs west over the steppe to snow-cappped mountains, home to the famed Kazakh eagle hunters on the Russian border.
 ''Mongolians say that someone who lifts a stone from a road collects good karma,'' said Enkhbaatar Dorjkhuu, 40, an engineer working on the road, which will bind together a far-flung population that largely follows Tibetan Buddhism. 
 Pausing a few miles east of here, he said: ''We are doing virtues here. A road is like an artery for human beings. This road we're building will play an important role in transportation, tourism, advancement of our economy.''
 After four years, one-quarter of its planned 1,650-mile length is paved. But with American and European tourists flocking here this summer, tour operators already are plotting the Mongolian summer road trip, circa 2010.
 ''It will open up new destinations and decrease the amount of time for people to get to faraway destinations,'' said Lee M. Cashell, an American businessman in Ulan Bator, who in the last six months has bought a guest house, opened a resort and started a restaurant, the UB Deli.
 Oddly, in the steppe, one lone strip of asphalt can help the environment.
 ''People already drive across Mongolia,'' said Darius F. Teeter, deputy representative here for the Asian Development Bank. ''But you can have a valley with 14 parallel dirt tracks, each one becoming rutted in the mud. After the paved road comes through, you can see the dirt tracks start to disappear under the grass.''
 Mongolia's political opposition says the project is called the Millennium Road because it will take 1,000 years to finish. But it remains highly popular with the public. In opinion polls it trails only the decision to cancel 98 percent of the country's Soviet-era debt. 
 The project does have its critics, particularly in Ulan Bator, where as many as half of the nation's 2.5 million people now live. In a modern office building there, where air conditioners muffled the din of cars on traffic-choked streets, Chultem Munkhtsetseg spoke for many urbanites when she dismissed the highway as a road linking ''nowhere to nowhere.''
 ''Instead of paving roads in deserted places, they should pave streets in U.B., where half of the population lives,'' said Ms. Munkhtsetseg, who works for a foreign foundation. ''Instead of building roads across the country, it is much better economically for Mongolia to build roads in the cities.''
 It would be more sensible, many Mongolians say, to build north-south roads to link up with China. Indeed, Mongolia is following the model of Canada, where each province trades more with the United States than with the rest of Canada.
 ''Politically the Millennium Road is beneficial for the government,'' said Michael Kohn, an American travel writer here who has visited most of this vast nation. ''Economically they would be better off building roads to China.''
 Some say airplanes are better suited to handling the feeble east-west demand. But for years travelers have thought the initials on the side of the balky Soviet Antonov planes of state-owned Mongolian Airlines, M.I.A.T., stand for ''May I Arrive Today?'' But the Antonovs are being retired and a new, more reliable, privately owned airline, Air Mongolia, is gradually taking over domestic routes.
 That way Mongolia could leap over building a national road.
 President Bagabandi arrived in the United States on Wednesday for a one-week trip from Washington to Denver to San Francisco. Road critics note that he will not be traveling by car, truck or railroad. 
 Road defenders say paved roads bring prosperity.
 ''You can see it in the countryside: the motorcycles, jeeps, satellite antennas, solar collectors,'' said John Karlsen, a Coloradan who sells mining and road equipment here. ''The people in the countryside are getting to markets. They are hauling their cashmere. The path to economic salvation in Mongolia is in building roads.''
 His colleague Bob Barrows added: ''Look at what the interstate highway system did in the 50's for the U.S., what the autobahns did for Germany. Bottom line is that the Millennium Road, or any road, is good for this country.''
 Indeed, here on a newly paved 50-mile stretch of road between the capital and Bagannuur there was a steady flow of trucks loaded down with mounds of wool from the countryside.
 In the year since this road section was paved, traffic has jumped from 800 vehicles a day to 3,000 a day, said Mr. Manduul of the Transportation Department. In a sign that roads spread development in Mongolia, he added, ''Bagannuur real estate prices are now on a level with the capital.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At Hentiy Aimak, about 90 miles east of Ulan Bator, the capital, a 30-mile stretch of highway is under contruction where horses and sheep grazed.
 Battsengel Choijilsuren, 20, tossing large rocks out of the way of heavy equipment at Hentiy Aimak. He works for the Erdene Zam company. (Photographs by Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times)Map of Mongolia highlighting Nailakh: Nailakh is near the middle of a planned east-west highway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); MOUNTAINS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); TOUR OPERATORS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RELIGION (50%) 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (61%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (61%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: GOBI DESERT (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) MONGOLIA (97%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TIBET (79%); ASIA (79%) Mongolia

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



293 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Oil Up to Nearly $41 a Barrel On Sharp Fall in Inventories

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil prices rose to a six-week high in New York yesterday after the Energy Department reported the largest drop in oil inventories in three months amid surging demand.
 Inventories in the United States fell by 2.1 million barrels last week as refineries operated at close to capacity, the report said. 
Two-thirds of the decline occurred in Western states, where people are particularly dependent on private transportation.
 ''Demand has been growing,'' said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research in Winchester, Mass. ''People need to see another 30 million barrels of crude socked away in the U.S.'' for concern about Middle East supply disruptions to ease.
 In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, oil for August delivery rose $1.53, or 3.9 percent, to $40.97 a barrel. The September contract rose $1.66, or 4.2 percent, to $41.20 a barrel. 
 Prices are up 26 percent so far this year as demand in the United States and China eroded inventories, and as violence in Iraq and Saudi Arabia and strikes in Nigeria and Norway raised concern about the reliability of oil supplies.
 Gasoline for August delivery rose 3.07 cents a gallon yesterday, or 2.4 percent, to $1.316 in New York, the first increase in four sessions. Retail prices averaged $1.91 a gallon, up 26 percent from a year earlier, according to AAA, formerly the American Automobile Association.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Crude Oil: Near-Month Contract''Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since Jan. 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Energy Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (82%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



294 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Halting Cultural Evolution; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Along the Silk Road, China Begins to Guard Its Heritage

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

DATELINE: DUNHUANG, China 

 BODY:
In late June this dusty small town, an oasis in the Gobi Desert that sprang up hundreds of years ago as a stop on the Silk Road, drew more than 200 art conservation experts from around the world. They came to advance the cause of preserving and managing the Mogao Grottoes, 492 cave temples carved into a cliff face about 15 miles outside Dunhuang between the 4th and 14th centuries and covered with elaborate Buddhist wall paintings portraying visions of heaven and earth in ancient China. 
 With China's economy expanding and tourism growing even faster, insiders and outsiders worry that China will not take the time and trouble, or have the resources and expertise, to preserve its rich cultural heritage. Much has already been lost. 
 But success in Dunhuang would help lead the way for other Chinese sites. ''The tension between economic development and conservation is everywhere, and it's very serious,'' said Huang Kezhong, former deputy director of the China National Institute for Cultural Property. Fan Jinshi, director of the Dunhuang Academy, the guardian of Mogao, added, ''Most frequently, it's the cultural site that loses the battle.''
 For Ms. Fan, a petite, feisty archaeologist said to rule the academy with an iron hand, the challenges come as much from the biting winds, sand, salt and water as from the growing ranks of tourists and the rapid development of this remote outpost. Still, with its comprehensive approach to managing the site -- including conservation labs, scientific and environmental research arms, fine arts and archaeology institutes, publications and exhibitions units -- ''it's a model for the whole of China,'' said Li Yang, deputy governor of Gansu province. The caves -- stretching in tiers for about a mile across the light gold face of Singing Sand Mountain -- had long been abandoned and were largely unknown until about 1900, when a Daoist monk discovered a huge trove of manuscripts in what is today known as the Library Cave. Locals paid little attention.
 Once word about the honeycomb of caves filtered back to Europe, however, archaeologists and adventurers began to arrive. The caves were damaged; some had collapsed, in whole or in part. But inside, the explorers found a hidden world of Buddhist art: sculptures of Buddha, bodhisattvas and warriors as well as detailed murals depicting paradise and of daily life in rich shades of blue, green, brown, red and black. 
 Soon ''foreign devils'' were paying a pittance to haul away poems, prayer sheets, commercial records and even the wall paintings. (Most now reside in museums in London; Paris; St. Petersburg, Russia; New Delhi; and at Harvard in Cambridge, Mass. Repatriation is part of the Dunhuang Academy's long-term goal.)
 By 1944 officials had recognized the caves' importance, establishing the academy. During the Cultural Revolution, Mogao was protected by no less than Zhou Enlai, said Richard A. Englehardt, regional adviser for culture in Asia and the Pacific for Unesco, which made it a world heritage site in 1987. 
 After China opened its doors to foreigners in 1978, conservation experts arrived from Japan, Britain, Australia, Italy and the United States. The Getty Conservation Institute, an arm of the Getty Trust in Los Angeles that was a co-sponsor of the recent conference with the Dunhuang Academy, started working here in 1988. 
 The task was huge. The Getty's work alone has several aspects. To stall sand erosion, it installed a mesh fence that reduces wind speed by 50 percent and helped arrange the planting of grids of straw and branches in the desert dunes. Then the Getty adopted Cave No. 85, where it has done extensive work analyzing water and salt damage to the murals. To save the wall paintings, the Getty has developed a process that removes some salt from the cave walls and readheres the mural plaster.
 Even after years of work, only about 40 caves are accessible, on a rotating basis of 10 to 12 a day, to tourists whose numbers have grown to more than 300,000 a year from about 50,000 in 1980, the year after Mogao opened to the public. Most visitors crowd into the caves during summer, quickly increasing the temperature and humidity and adding to the mural damage.
 ''The scale of the site is so vast that there is conservation work for generations to come,'' said Neville Agnew, the Getty's top Mogao project specialist. 
 Nevertheless, the Dunhuang Academy's achievements have made its reputation around China. ''There is a tremendous demand on the Dunhuang Academy to help other areas on cultural protection,'' Mr. Huang said. Kuqa and Kizil, two cave sites on the Silk Road in Xinjiang Province, have asked for help, he said, as have three sites in Tibet that need expertise with the preservation of cave paintings and the Shaolin Monastery in Henan Province. The Dunhuang Academy has also set up an educational training course for northwest China.
 ''There is almost an endless line at their door asking for help,'' Mr. Huang said.
 Preservation experts are hopeful about Dunhuang as a model for another reason too. It is one of the first two sites in China -- the other being Cheng De, the Qing dynasty summer resort north of Beijing -- to follow what are known as the China Principles. These heritage preservation guidelines were drawn up by China's State Administration for Cultural Heritage, along with the Getty Conservation Institute and the Australian Heritage Commission, and adopted in 2000. 
 The China Principles, which generally update existing international conventions, enshrine conservation principles and mandate an interdisciplinary management process. They require a master plan that, for example, researches and sets visitor capacity limits. 
 These guidelines have now largely been disseminated to the provinces, which are responsible for most heritage sites. But several experts at the conference said that many local officials appeared to be ignorant of them. 
 China has ''made great progress in training conservationists and establishing many legal systems in heritage conservation at different levels,'' said Tong Mingkang, a deputy director of the State Administration for Cultural Heritage. ''We now have a full, complete set of legal principles. The government has spent lots of money at different levels, and these achievements make us very proud.'' 
 But he conceded, ''We need to adopt various measures to implement the China Principles.'' There is no enforcement mechanism for the standards. 
 Zhang Webin, a former director of China's heritage administration, was even harsher. ''We still lack a strategic plan,'' he said. ''Some don't understand the depth of conservation. We need to train professionals, particularly professionals with foreign experience. We need to have a complete law system.''
 In the meantime experts are looking to the Dunhuang Academy, an appropriate view for perhaps more than one reason. Dunhuang means ''blazing beacon.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sculptures of Buddha are among the artifacts in the 492 cave temples carved into cliff faces near Dunhuang, China. (Photo by Mark Simon for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Cave temples near Dunhuang, China, are the focus of efforts to protect artifacts. (Photo by Mark Simon for The New York Times)(pg. E5)Map of China highlighting the Silk Road: Conservation experts recently gathered near Dunhuang to discuss its caves. (pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); PAINTING (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); DESERTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); RELIGION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) 

PERSON: Judith H Dobrzynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%) GOBI DESERT (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); GANSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) China; Dunhuang (China)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



295 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Some Private Companies Embrace Tougher Rules

BYLINE: By ANNE FIELD

 BODY:
Even as some publicly traded small businesses are going private to escape the tough accounting standards stipulated by the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a growing number of privately held companies are rushing to incorporate them, even though they do not have to.
 These companies, which are exempt from the law's requirements, nevertheless see advantages in adopting them, as well as in instituting other corporate-governance changes like adding outside directors to their boards. Having witnessed the collapse of corporate giants like Enron, whose accounting malfeasance and weak management oversight inspired the legislation, these companies have a heightened appreciation of the need to strengthen their defenses against corruption, experts say. 
 They also know compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley is a precondition for going public, being acquired or raising money from venture capitalists.
 ''Sarbanes-Oxley has raised the visibility of these issues,'' said Jeff Westphal, president of Vertex, a tax software and services company in Berwyn, Pa. 
 It certainly has for Chris Winfield, president of 10E20, a Web-design start-up in Brooklyn. Mr. Winfield has spent the last few months searching for affordable software to help his company follow Sarbane-Oxley's accounting rules, even though it is privately held and had only $2 million in revenue last year.
 Mr. Winfield has ambitious plans for growth, including an increase in the number of employees to 200 by 2006 from 28 today, and he wants to be ready to tap the stock market or put his company up for sale when the time comes. If he cannot find the right software program, he says, he will have his staff create one and integrate it with the company's accounting and back-office systems, a process that could take up to eight months.
 ''I think we have to get the ball rolling now,'' Mr. Winfield said. ''It will definitely be worth the effort.''
 Sarbanes-Oxley created a regulatory board with broad powers to crack down on corporate accounting abuses, toughened corporate disclosure requirements, established protections for corporate whistle-blowers and required changes in the makeup of corporate boards. 
 Since its passage, a growing number of small publicly traded companies have announced plans to go private, in large part to escape the cost of compliance.
 By the same token, the law has prompted many small companies to head in the opposite direction. According to Andrew Keyt, executive director of the Loyola University Chicago Family Business Center, more private companies are adding outsiders to their boards and introducing formal financial audit and compensation committees. They are also holding board meetings more often, he says, and taking a more critical look at the directors' performance.
 In a 2003 survey by his organization of 3,000 mostly small businesses, 38 percent of boards met three or more times a year, up from 28 percent in a similar poll of 1,200 businesses in 1997, he said, while only 36 percent were satisfied with their board's contributions, down from 42 percent six years earlier. 
 Mr. Keyt believes the economic downturn, which many companies have only recently started to dig out from, has played a role in private companies' new corporate governance religion. ''When business performance is down, shareholders are more concerned about the performance of the company,'' he said. ''Corporate governance becomes more important.''
 Shane Pliska is a case in point. Mr. Pliska joined Planterra, his family's 30-year-old interior-landscape-design business in West Bloomfield, Mich., in 2003, two years after the company experienced a 20 percent decrease in sales. He decided to introduce more frequent and more formal board meetings partly because ''the economic downturn made us look to how we could change things to make them better,'' he said. ''When you're making a lot of money, you don't really think about that.'' 
 Craig Aronoff, a consultant with the Family Business Consulting Group in Marietta, Ga., says he is helping at least a half dozen small private companies set up boards of directors. The key, in many cases, is finding people with expertise in specific areas in which the businesses need help.
 ''You need a board that can show you how to grow the company,'' said Marc Morgenstern, managing partner with Kahn Kleinmen, a law firm in Cleveland. ''Identify five or six skill sets, like sales or technology, find people who have them, and then let them challenge your assumptions.''
 Recruiting such talent takes persistence. Two years ago, Mr. Westphal of Vertex decided to look for outsiders to expand a board that consisted of his father, his mother, two sisters, his lawyer and himself. At an awards dinner one night, he spotted Richard Teerlink, the retired chairman of Harley-Davidson who is largely credited with turning its fortunes around through strong leadership and an emphasis on worker empowerment, and invited him to lunch. He arranged a second meeting a month later and persuaded Mr. Teerlink to act as unofficial consultant to his company. One year after that, Mr. Teerlink agreed to join the board.
 ''It's not something that can be done quickly or haphazardly,'' Mr. Westphal said.
 At the same time, since private companies are not beholden to the new law, they have more flexibility in making changes. Mr. Pliska , for example, brought in the company accountant and lawyer to sit in on quarterly board meetings, but they appear as advisers, not board members. And his brother, who is not involved in the business, attends, to get a feel for operations ''in case something happens to one of us,'' he said. 
 New is not always better, of course. Mr. Keyt recounts the experience of a family-owned manufacturing company that recently brought in several outside directors, only to find that they advocated an acquisition strategy that would have saddled the family with a high level of debt. Ultimately, two directors resigned and the family pursued a less risky growth strategy.
 In general, though, smart outsiders provide unexpected and valuable insights. Harry Seigle, chairman of Seigle's, a building-supply company in Elgin, Ill., with $240 million in annual revenues, reconstituted his board four years ago to include the heads of several similar companies operating in different regions of the country. Not long afterward, when his son wanted to leave his job as a high-school teacher to join the company, the board discussed what his role should be. Eventually, they suggested he use his technical skills as a teacher to help company employees learn how to operate a complex new software program. More recently, he moved into sales.
 Similarly, Mr. Westphal of Vertex says his board has been instrumental in smoothing the transition from one generation of the family to the next.
 Other good-governance procedures that have been embraced by corporate America are also trickling down to family-owned concerns.
 In a recent survey of 100 small, privately held companies by Tatum Partners, an Atlanta firm that provides interim chief financial officers and chief information officers to companies, 58 percent said they were considering establishing a company code of ethics, also a requirement of Sarbanes-Oxley, and nearly 40 percent said they were weighing whistle-blower protection for employees.
 Of course, the entrepreneurs who pay the most attention to such issues often have money on their minds. Small-business owners and consultants say acquisition-minded corporations and their underwriters look more favorably on target companies that conduct formal yearly audits, install professional boards of directors and institute good-governance policies than those that do not.
 ''It lowers the risk,'' said Douglass Tatum, a co-owner of Tatum Partners.
 Jim Alterbaum, a New York lawyer who works with small businesses and who has noticed increased scrutiny of their corporate governance practices by potential buyers, encourages clients to take such steps as investigating loans made to company officers and directors and pushing the board ''to get ahead of the curve.
 ''It's a competitive advantage,'' Mr. Alterbaum said.
 It is not uncommon for venture capitalists to insist that companies they invest in take corporate governance seriously. Three such firms -- Kodiak Venture Partners and North Bridge Venture Partners, both of Waltham, Mass., and Commonwealth Capital Ventures of Wellesley, Mass. -- set several conditions before investing $12 million in Pragmatech, a technology company in Nashua, N.H., a year ago, according to its founder and chairman, Brooke Savage. They required Pragmatech to hire a new chief executive and chief financial officer, to create a formal board that meets every six weeks and to institute a more rigorous annual financial reporting process, he said. 
 ''They expected us to act like a public company,'' Mr. Savage said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Westphal, president of Vertex, a tax software and services company in Berwyn, Pa. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (91%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (91%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); GOING PRIVATE (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); AUDITS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); CORRUPTION (55%) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Vertex Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Westphal; Anne Field

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



296 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Shares Decline as Intel Shakes the Technology Market

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slid yesterday, led by a sell-off in the semiconductor sector, after a disappointing forecast from the technology bellwether Intel fanned worries about the outlook for corporate profits.
 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.78 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,914.88. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 38.79 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,208.80. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3.67 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,111.47. 
 After the market closed on Tuesday Intel cut its profit margin forecasts and said that inventories rose in the second quarter, at the same time that it reported that its profit nearly doubled. The news spurred the sell-off.
 ''The tech market is just getting hit really hard. It's obviously all Intel,'' said David Memmott, head of listed block trading at Morgan Stanley. ''We're in the beginning of this quarter's earnings, and so far, they haven't been very good.''
 Unexpectedly weak retail sales numbers for June did little to soothe Wall Street's worries that economic growth may be slowing.
 Investors also kept a wary eye on oil prices, which topped $40. Crude oil for August delivery jumped $1.53, to settle at $40.97 a barrel after hitting a session high of $41.05 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Before the regular trading session began, the government reported that retail sales fell 1.1 percent in June. Retail sales excluding automobiles and parts dropped 0.2 percent. Wall Street analysts had been expecting sales to fall 0.6 percent over all and to rise 0.2 percent excluding automobiles.
 The market made a brief run at positive territory as the lure of battered shares drew investors, but by late afternoon, the rally had fizzled.
 Shares of Intel declined $2.76, or 10.6 percent, to $23.38. 
 Shares of Applied Materials, the microchip production equipment maker, fell $1.11, or 6.2 percent, to $16.82.
 Other stocks related to semiconductor manufacturing also tumbled -- shares of Novellus Systems dropped $1.71, or 5.9 percent, to $27.53, and Micron Technology shares fell 69 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $13.41.
 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index dropped 4.5 percent, dipping to its lowest close since September 2003.
 One bright spot was McDonald's, which climbed $1.11, or 4.2 percent, to $27.79, after it said that its quarterly profit would beat expectations. McDonald's said it would post a 27 percent increase in second-quarter earnings per share as it delivers its best second-quarter sales growth since 1987. 
 Juniper Networks gained after its quarterly profit, excluding one-time items, beat expectations as demand in the telecommunications segment strengthened. The stock rose $2.59, or 11.8 percent, to $24.59.
 Yum Brands, parent of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell fast-food chains, gained after it reported higher quarterly earnings and raised its full-year profit outlook. It jumped $1.04, or 2.8 percent, to $37.95.
 Shares of Genzyme gained after it reported that second-quarter profit rose and it raised its revenue outlook for the year. The stock rose $5.50, or 12.4 percent, to $50.
 Treasury prices dipped yesterday after the weak retail sales figures and traders worried about inflation. 
 The price of the benchmark 10-year note dropped 3/32, to 1024/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.48 percent, from 4.47 percent on Tuesday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dipped 3/32, to 1028/32. The bond's yield climbed to 5.22 percent from 5.21 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%) 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); JNPR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



297 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Business Group Backs Raise In New York Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 14 

 BODY:
Advocates of raising the state's minimum wage won support from a powerful, if unexpected, quarter on Wednesday when the Partnership for New York City, one of the city's leading business groups, urged the State Senate to pass a bill raising the minimum wage to $7.10 an hour from $5.15. 
 Until now, the calls for a higher minimum wage have largely come from labor unions, Democrats, the Roman Catholic Church and the Working Families Party. Several business groups have come out against a higher minimum wage, arguing that it would drive up employers' expenses and could cost the state jobs. 
 But the Partnership for New York City, an influential group of business leaders that was founded by David Rockefeller, has now decided to support a higher minimum wage. In a letter to Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader of the Republican-controlled Senate, the group noted that at the current minimum wage, a full-time worker earns only $10,712 a year, which is below the federal poverty level.
 ''Our decision is based on the fact that New York's competitive position in the world economy is driven, more than anything else, by the outstanding quality of our labor force,'' Kathryn S. Wylde, the president and chief executive officer of the partnership, wrote in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times. 
 The Democrat-controlled State Assembly passed a bill in March to increase the minimum wage. The Senate initially resisted calls to raise the minimum wage, saying the matter was better left to the federal government, which set the minimum wage at $5.15 in 1997. But recently, Senator Bruno has publicly flirted with the notion of raising the minimum wage when the Senate comes back to Albany next week. 
 When he was pressed to state a position on the minimum wage by the state's Conservative Party, which opposes an increase, he was notably silent, leading Michael R. Long, the party chairman, to threaten to withdraw the party's support from some Republican state senators. 
 Several other states, including Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont, have minimum wages of more than $5.15 an hour. 
 Business groups warn that raising the minimum wage will hurt small employers, who will have to pay higher Social Security taxes and workers' compensation costs as well as higher wages. And some warn that if New York's wages are higher than most other states', employers will seek to open businesses elsewhere.
 But a study by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-backed think tank, found that in the 12 states with minimum wages higher than $5.15 an hour, employment levels have not been hurt. 
 There are several different bills in the Senate and the Assembly that would raise the minimum wage, mostly in gradual steps. If both houses pass the same bill, it will be sent to Gov. George E. Pataki. He said earlier this week that he would prefer to see federal action on the minimum wage, but that he would look at whatever the Legislature does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); RELIGION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) Labor; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

ORGANIZATION: Partnership for New York City; Fiscal Policy Institute

PERSON: Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



298 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: TORT OVERHAUL PROMPTS HCA TO RAISE OUTLOOK

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
HCA raised its second-quarter outlook yesterday, citing the adoption of tort overhaul legislation in some states. HCA, the nation's largest for-profit hospital chain, said it expected that earnings for the quarter ending June 30 would be about 72 cents a share after a $59 million adjustment in reserves for professional liability insurance. The company had previously estimated earnings of 67 cents a share for the quarter, and analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had been expecting a profit of 65 cents a share. HCA, which is based in Nashville, is scheduled to release its earnings report on July 26. Favorable claim and payment trends and low inflation rates also benefited the company. HCA reported a profit of 47 cents a share in the second quarter of 2003.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); HOSPITALS (88%); HEALTH CARE (88%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (55%); INFLATION (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) 

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Hca-the Healthcare Co

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (91%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



299 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Marriage and the Poor

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Barbara Ehrenreich got it right in her July 11 column about the Healthy Marriage Initiative (''Let Them Eat Wedding Cake''). This initiative is too narrowly focused and poorly financed to achieve its goal of promoting healthy marriages.
 Family policy cannot be developed in a vacuum. There is a certain cruelty in approaching a problem but failing to recognize the depth of the problem. The promotion of healthy families in low-income communities will be a complex task, requiring a larger investment of resources than what has been proposed. 
 To strengthen America's families, we must take an approach that includes economic development and investments in human capital through education, job training, drug rehabilitation and access to reproductive health services. Low-income communities have been neglected for so long that the resources needed to rebuild them will require a major shift in public priorities over an extended period of time, possibly generations.

HEIDI MELZ
Austin, Tex., July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (52%) Marriages

PERSON: Heidi Melz; Barbara Ehrenreich

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



300 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Why do certain countries prosper? A new study looks at productivity and comes up with some contrarian conclusions.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness'' (HarperCollins).

 BODY:
AN educated work force is not essential for economic growth. Neither is a high saving rate. Manufacturing is not the most influential economic sector.
 These contrarian conclusions come from a new book by William W. Lewis, the founding director of the McKinsey Global Institute, a division of the McKinsey & Company consulting firm. Since 1991, the institute's researchers have conducted the most comprehensive international studies available on productivity by industry sector. 
 In ''The Power of Productivity,'' published by the University of Chicago Press, Mr. Lewis pulls together some results of that decade-long research.
 The book helps explain why the American economy has done better -- and Europe and Japan have done worse -- than most people predicted in the late 1980's. It also offers a simultaneously hopeful and depressing view of economic conditions in poor countries, focusing on Brazil, India and Russia.
 ''Productivity,'' Mr. Lewis writes, ''is simply the ratio of the value of goods and services provided consumers to the amount of time worked and capital used to produce the goods and services.''
 What the McKinsey research makes clear is that it's not what you put into the economy that matters, but what you get out of it. Consumption is the goal of production.
 To know why some countries prosper while others fall behind, then, we need to know which industries in which countries are more productive and why.
 Most studies of the subject, however, concentrate on a narrow slice of the economy: products that are traded in world markets. That's because, thanks to customs regulations, most countries have excellent data on those goods.
 Looking only at traded goods can be highly misleading. International businesses tend to face intense competition. They have to adopt practices that improve productivity. Domestic industries, by contrast, are often protected from competition.
 McKinsey's research fills in the picture, providing data and case studies of industries like retailing, food processing and construction.
 Poorer countries are hampered mostly by government policies, especially high taxes that drive businesses underground, rather than by the inherent problems of poverty, Mr. Lewis argues. If they could solve their policy problems, they would attract foreign investment. Businesses could train workers on the job, achieving competitive productivity.
 ''If illiterate Mexican immigrants can reach world-class productivity building apartment houses in Houston,'' he writes, ''there is no reason why illiterate Brazilian agricultural workers cannot achieve the same in Sao Paulo.'' 
 When highly productive multinationals enter previously protected markets, their business practices come with them. 
 Consider what happened in India after 1983, when Suzuki was allowed to build auto plants as part of a joint venture called Murati. ''Suzuki with Indian labor and Indian inputs was able to achieve roughly 50 percent of the productivity of the advanced auto industry in their home country,'' Mr. Lewis said in an interview. ''That's compared to maybe 10 percent for the rest of the Indian industry.''
 In the 1990's, the Indian government opened the auto business to other foreign investment, with similar results. 
 The McKinsey Global Institute's first study, published in late 1992, shocked readers then with its conclusion that in most industries, companies in the United States were far more productive than Europeans or Japanese. Back then, notes Mr. Lewis, the conventional wisdom was that the American economy was going down the tubes, and that American workers were duds.
 ''There were some really pejorative comments about how U.S. workers were lazy and uneducated and unintelligent,'' he recalls. ''Well, it may be that they were lazy, uneducated and unintelligent, but they were still performing in most industries at productivity levels far higher than those in Japan.''
 Toyota is a world leader in quality and efficiency in manufacturing, for instance, but it's atypical of the Japanese economy, even in manufacturing. 
 Food processing in Japan, Mr. Lewis writes, ''has more employees than the combined total of cars, steel, machine tools and computers,'' or about 11 percent of all manufacturing workers. While Japan's fiercely competitive auto industry is the most productive in the world, its food-processing industry is only 39 percent as productive as the United States industry, McKinsey found.
 As a result, Japanese consumers are paying unnecessarily high prices for food and, Mr. Lewis notes, Japanese workers are ''devoting their extraordinary talents to propping up an economic structure with limited future development potential.''
 Inefficient industries may keep people employed in the short term, but over time their sluggish productivity makes the economy stagnate.
 The best predictor of productivity, he argues, is product market competition. That competition takes place not just in manufacturing but with all the services that support a product, before and after it leaves the plant. 
 Competition in each stage of that process has ripple effects in the others.
 Take retailing, arguably the most influential sector in today's advanced economies. Despite some consolidation and the introduction of some big-box retailers, the Japanese food-processing industry remains fragmented and inefficient because Japanese grocery stores are still mostly tiny mom-and-pop shops protected by strict land use laws.
 In the United States, by contrast, a revolution in retailing over the last 25 years has increased productivity not just for stores but for wholesalers and makers of consumer goods as well.
 Big retailers, notably Wal-Mart, have bargained down prices and threatened to eliminate wholesalers altogether. In response, manufacturers and wholesalers have found ways to improve their own operations. (So did Wal-Mart's retailing competitors.)
 At the same time, retailers have collected better information about what consumers are buying, and what they might want, and have shared that data with their suppliers. As a result, manufacturers have been able to spend their production dollars more efficiently.
 Meanwhile, in a small shop near McKinsey's Tokyo office, a hat has languished unsold on the same shelf for 15 years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Indian auto industry made huge gains in productivity after it opened the nation to greater foreign investment. The Ford plant above is not far from Madras. (Photo by Dibyangshu Sarkar/Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); CASE STUDIES (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); AGRICULTURE (66%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (63%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (60%); FARM LABOR (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; William W Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) Europe; Brazil; India; Russia; Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



301 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Winning While Losing

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14 

 BODY:
From the beginning, gay marriage has been an issue that President Bush has tried to finesse.
 Under election-year pressure from his social conservative base, Mr. Bush endorsed the effort to adopt a constitutional amendment that would ban gay marriage. In the last few days he has turned up the volume on the issue, talking about it in his weekly radio address on Saturday and calling wavering senators over the last day or two in an effort to shore up support for the measure as it headed toward a crucial procedural vote on Wednesday. 
 But after endorsing the measure in February, he would often go weeks without mentioning it in public, suggesting either a personal or political reluctance, or both, about pushing it too hard. And when he did raise the topic, he was careful to modulate his message to avoid alienating moderate voters, warning in particular against allowing the issue to become an excuse for gay bashing.
 ''What they do in the privacy of their house, consenting adults should be able to do,'' Mr. Bush said during a campaign stop in Pennsylvania on Friday, seeking to distinguish between private behavior and giving legal sanction to same-sex marriages. ''This is America. It's a free society. But it doesn't mean we have to redefine traditional marriage.''
 By hedging his position, if only a bit, Mr. Bush may have insulated himself somewhat from the sting of the defeat the proposed amendment suffered in the Senate on Wednesday. But the way in which the proposal went down with a whimper -- short of a simple majority, much less the two-thirds of the Senate needed for approval -- raised questions about whether the White House had fundamentally misjudged the nation's attitude on the issue. And the vote left even some of Mr. Bush's own advisers wondering if his backing of the amendment did not hurt him politically more than it helped by further stoking opposition to him from the left.
 ''It's a net loss for Republicans politically,'' said one prominent Republican in Washington who works closely with the White House. ''It does nothing for our base, because they're grumpy about not having it, and it energized a significant portion of their base. I guarantee you that the gay community will give twice as much money and work harder for Kerry now, not so much because they care about marriage per se, but because this effort plays to their fears that we're homophobic.''
 While polling has generally found that most Americans are opposed to gay marriage, it has also shown that few people see the issue, or the proposal for a constitutional amendment that would define marriage as being only between a man and a woman, as being a priority for the country. Polls and focus groups have repeatedly found that the subject barely registers with voters, if it registers at all, at a time when most people are primarily concerned with Iraq, terrorism and jobs.
 But wading into the issue was in keeping with the White House's overriding political priority, keeping Mr. Bush's base happy and energized, even at the risk of alienating moderate and swing voters who might see it as anti-gay. 
 It also provided an opportunity for the White House to maneuver Senator John Kerry into a position where it could again accuse him of taking both sides of an issue, the central theme in its effort to portray Mr. Kerry as so lacking in conviction that he would be an unreliable leader. Mr. Kerry has said he opposes gay marriage, but he also opposed the amendment, largely on the grounds that the issue was one for states to decide.
 In the end, neither Mr. Kerry nor his running mate, Senator John Edwards, voted. But Mr. Bush appears to have been more successful in convincing social conservatives that he is steadfastly with them on the issue.
 ''This is where you see President Bush taking a political risk,'' said Deal W. Hudson, an informal adviser to the White House and the publisher of Crisis, a conservative Catholic magazine. ''I think he knew there would be fallout among the swing voters who respond to the perception of political leaders being moralistic in their stands. Given that he knew that, for him to support the amendment to the degree he has is evidence of his conviction.''
 Mr. Bush won a big round of applause at a campaign rally in Wisconsin on Wednesday when he alluded to the ''debate'' in Washington over the subject. ''I believe that a traditional marriage -- marriage between a man and woman -- is an important part of stable families,'' he said. 
 In a statement issued by the White House, Mr. Bush said he was ''deeply disappointed'' that the amendment had been ''temporarily blocked'' in the Senate, and he urged the House to take it up.
 Some Republican strategists said the focus on the issue was part of a temporary diversion into a broader battle over values between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry before the campaign returns to the defining issues of the election -- Iraq, terrorism and the economy.
 But other Republican strategists said that in an election that is as likely to be decided by how successful each party is in getting its loyalists to go to the polls on Election Day as by their appeals to swing voters, gay marriage is proving to be a powerful issue that will not fade.
 ''To what I would call the moralist portion of the president's base, this issue has become in some ways the new abortion,'' said Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster. ''It generates passion.''
 James Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University, said Mr. Bush had used the issue skillfully to reassure conservatives without alienating voters in the center.
 ''It was a classic way to appeal to the conservative values base, knowing full well that it wouldn't pass but that he would still get credit,'' Mr. Thurber said. ''He can say it was the first step, and that he is on the side of his base, but he is not making it a major strategy, theme and message of his campaign nationally.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (60%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



302 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Protesters? Where?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
By inviting the Republican Party to hold its convention in New York City this summer, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has by proxy invited those who want to protest it, too. On Tuesday, however, he made it clear just what his administration perceives to be the limits of free speech in the era of terror. 
 Finding the right balance between protecting the civil liberties of protesters and keeping the city safe and orderly has become perhaps the most difficult conundrum the mayor has grappled with in preparing for the convention. 
 Mr. Bloomberg cannot afford to create the impression that the city is stifling protest, nor does he want the considerable ire that many peaceful protesters feel toward President Bush to be turned onto him instead. 
 But against a background of terrorist threats, he cannot risk a situation like Seattle's during the World Economic Forum in 1999, when the city came close to shutting down in the midst of violent protests. His Republican guests do not care to take in the spectacle of protesters in Times Square as they make their way to the theater, and city shopkeepers and commuters have no interest in long detours around angry antiwar rallies. 
 And so yesterday his administration announced that it was the protesters who would be inconvenienced rather than tourists and citizens. 
 After listing a number of groups that have also been granted protest sites, complete with some discussion of what props those groups will bring (one group, in a comment on the state of the nation's economy, will brandish giant pink slips), Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly reiterated that protests do not belong in Times Square, one of the requested sites of the largest protest group, United for Peace and Justice.
 Up next was the parks commissioner, who said once again that he would not brook the trampling of the grass on the Great Lawn of Central Park. Transportation Commissioner Iris Weinshall then stepped up to say that she wanted to keep traffic flowing on the East Side of Manhattan, which thereby knocked down another requested protest area. Instead, the group could hold its rally along the West Side Highway.
 Bill Dobbs, a spokesman for United for Peace and Justice, said yesterday that Mr. Bloomberg was simply trying to ''roll out the red carpet'' for the Republicans, at the expense of dissenting voices.
 Mr. Bloomberg has not denied that he is trying roll out the carpet for the G.O.P. But he also claims that he has a carpet -- or at least a large area rug -- that he wants to extend to the rest of the city.
 ''My first concern is to protect the civil rights of 8.1 million people who live here,'' Mr. Bloomberg said this week, explaining why he does not want protests to cause the same inconveniences that extensive security measures inevitably will. ''Nobody is going to take away the rights of our citizens to go about their business, go to school, go to work,'' he said.
 Organizers say those kinds of trade-offs are now the norm when holding huge political gatherings in the new age.
 Holding a convention in the city is ''tenfold more complicated than it would have been even four years ago,'' said Kevin Sheekey, president of the host committee. ''The concerns before were simple mundane crowd control. And now you have to think about terrorism, and that means you are talking about political leaders, delegates and visitors, protesters, citizens, the media and organized labor. And it is always the case that the mayor is the final arbiter on these things.''
 Police officials say their overarching focus is on a possible terrorist attack, rather than the myriad protests or the small cadre of troublemakers they worry will mask themselves behind the mass of peaceful demonstrators. However, the department is concerned about possible disruptions emerging from a protest as large as the 250,000 people expected by United for Peace and Justice. 
 ''Even if these were 300,000 little old ladies, we would still want to keep them towards West Street rather than to create a mass of gridlock in the midst of the city somewhere,'' said Paul J. Browne, the department's deputy commissioner for public information. ''We like to have marches where we can allow a significant portion of the rest of the city to function.''
 Norman Adler, a political consultant in New York, said most New Yorkers would likely accept the notion of protesters' getting short shrift in the name of their safety, as long as the police do not emulate those in Chicago three decades ago.
 ''I can't see Gifford Miller saying, 'Don't vote for the mayor because he forced the protesters to the West Side,''' Mr. Adler said, referring to Mr. Bloomberg's most likely Democratic rival for re-election. ''But he could say 'Don't vote for the mayor because the police engaged in unnecessary violence.''' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about efforts by Mayor Bloomberg to balance the civil liberties of those who plan to protest during the Republican National Convention with the need to keep New York City safe and orderly misidentified the organization that drew violent protests when it met in Seattle in 1999. It was the World Trade Organization, not the World Economic Forum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RIOTS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



303 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: City Has 5-Year Expansion Plan For Navy Yard Industrial Park

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Calling it one of the city's great economic success stories, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a five-year plan yesterday to expand the industrial park at the Brooklyn Navy Yard to attract hundreds of new jobs. 
 Mayor Bloomberg said the city would spend $71 million on infrastructure improvements at the Navy Yard, laying the groundwork for private development of 560,000 square feet of manufacturing, industrial and retail space along the west side. That development is expected to cost $60 million, to be raised from investors. 
 Already under construction is Steiner Studios, a $118 million film and television complex. The mayor said he expected to cut the ribbon in a few months on one of the largest sound stages on the East Coast.
 The Navy Yard also houses about 3.5 million square feet of industrial space, which is nearly all occupied by more than 220 industrial and manufacturing businesses, including a billboard and graphics company, a seafood distributor and several specialty furniture makers. ''In fact, the Navy Yard is bursting at the seams,'' he said.
 Under the plan, construction would begin next year on a 180,000-square-foot industrial building on what is now part of a Police Department tow pound. A 100,000-square-foot food-processing complex with freezer and refrigeration storage would break ground in 2006. The rest of the industrial and manufacturing space would be built in subsequent years.
 In addition, work would begin next year on 60,000 square feet of commercial retail space along Flushing Avenue, which would be used for neighborhood-oriented stores. 
 City officials said the expansion plan would bring an additional 500 to 800 new jobs to the Navy Yard, which currently has about 4,000 employees, and improve the quality of life for residents in nearby communities. 
 Mayor Bloomberg said that the city would hire a consultant to coordinate efforts to help local residents secure jobs at the yard. The city's $71 million will be used for capital improvements: paving streets, upgrading electrical systems and installing water and sewer lines. 
 ''We are confident that these public investments will be repaid many times over in private investments and jobs for residents of all five boroughs,'' the mayor said.
 The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, who appeared with the mayor at a news conference yesterday at the Navy Yard, was one of several Brooklyn officials who praised the expansion plan. ''Brooklyn's ship has come in, for sure,'' he said. ''This represents Brooklyn yesterday, it represents the best of Brooklyn today and the opportunity and hope and expectation of Brooklyn tomorrow.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NAVIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); FURNITURE MFG (71%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (71%); RETAILERS (71%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) Brooklyn Navy Yard; Area Planning and Renewal; Labor; Industrial Parks; Retail Stores and Trade ; Food

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



304 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: In His Own Words

 BODY:

PRESIDENT BUSH

Remarks yesterday at a rally in Waukesha, Wis.
 ''Tax relief is working. It's working. Since last summer our economy has been growing at its fastest rate in nearly 20 years. 
 As Tommy [G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services and former Wisconsin governor] said, since last August we've added 1.5 million new jobs. People are going back to work. 
 Here in Wisconsin, the unemployment rate has dropped to 5.1 percent. Homeownership rate is at an all-time high. That's a fantastic statistic, isn't it? We want more people owning their own home. When you own something you have a vital stake in the future of the United States of America.
 Interest rates are low; business investment is growing; consumer confidence is at a two-year high; personal incomes are up. The economic stimulus plan that we worked with Congress on is paying off. This economy is strong, and it is getting stronger. 
 And there's a different view, of course. That's what campaigns are all about. My opponents looked at this progress and somehow concluded the sky is falling. It doesn't matter whether the message is delivered with a frown or a smile, it's the same old pessimism, same old pessimism. And they're going to cheer us up with higher taxes, more federal spending and economic isolationism.
 The good news is, we're not going to let them do that. We're going to keep taxes low to make sure people can find work and people to be able to realize their dream.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin; Waukesha (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004



305 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Scene: Happy Home. Loving Family. Enter the Worm.

BYLINE: By SVEN BIRKERTS. 
Sven Birkerts teaches in the Bennington Writing Seminars and edits the journal Agni.

 BODY:

THE GOOD NANNY
By Benjamin Cheever
278 pages. Bloomsbury. $23.95.
 It is a truth universally acknowledged that an aging yuppie in possession of an enviable life must be in want of some corrective humiliation. Who can forget the mounting indignities that Tom Wolfe heaped upon Sherman McCoy, his arrogant ''master of the universe,'' in ''The Bonfire of the Vanities''? Readers can't seem to get enough of Schadenfreude -- it is one of the great pleasures of the literary entertainment.
 Benjamin Cheever, author of three previous novels and the eponymously self-excoriating ''Selling Ben Cheever: Back to Square One in a Service Economy,'' knows well the narrative allure of the failure, and in his newest novel, ''The Good Nanny,'' he deals it out with refined sadistic flourishes.
 The set-up of ''The Good Nanny'' is fairly pat. Stuart Cross is a highly successful editor at a New York publisher; his wife, Andie, is chief film critic for a New York newspaper. They live with their two children in the desirably air-brushed Westchester community of Scarborough -- a place we could readily imagine the book-savvy Stuart referring to as ''Cheever country,'' though, mercifully, he doesn't.
 But happy prosperity invites the devil in. And indeed, in the opening scene, before the reader can even get the main characters straight, the guests at the Crosses' St. Patrick's Day party hear the sounds of a collision and look down to see a trail of flashing police cruisers on the road below. This is but the first intimation that the fire wall of money and entitlement will not be wall enough. 
 The catalyst, if not agent, of the mounting calamities driving this episodic novel forward is Louise Washington, the Crosses' new African-American nanny, furnished by Mary Poppins Inc., ''Westchester's prestige child-care provider.'' Louise has an immediate take-charge competence (she has the children calling her ''Sugar'' right away), but, as Andie soon discovers, she also has a mysterious boyfriend who may or may not have been in prison and who fits a bit too closely the profile of a wanted killer.
 The hiring of the new nanny coincides directly with the great reversal in the Cross family fortunes. First, though, there is the tell-tale false alarm: the parents go to work and Louise and the children disappear. Andie, hysterical, fears the worst -- abduction, ransom, violence -- and voicing her fears to Stuart discloses her prejudice. The whole business turns out to be a misunderstanding, but already we see the psychological frailty of this family. Before long Andie is referring to Louise as ''the paragon,'' and saying things to Stuart like, ''Make sure the paragon doesn't serve you the children for lunch.'' 
 Then come the real blows. The self-satisfied Stuart -- he might as well be wearing a ''kick me!'' sign on his back -- has been preening himself on the expectation of a major promotion. Instead of becoming the new editorial director of the house of Acropolis, he is unexpectedly aced out by a devious underling and loses his job. He is stunned. Within pages he is a drinking, smoking, raging mess of a man. 
 Still, the ego is a hardy plant. Stuart decides that his reversal is but a sign that he must now write his long-postponed, much-ballyhooed first novel, but gird himself as he will, he keeps crashing up against his own creative bankruptcy. Mr. Cheever catches expertly the ingenious feints of his self-deception: ''I won't shower until I've written the first five pages, he thought. How long could that take? Anthony Trollope produced 47 novels, most of them while holding a full-time job.'' Stuart's rationalizations escalate as he becomes more aware of his private plight; the comedy prickles.
 If the take-down of the entitled offers one reliable line of tension, the inevitable frictions attendant on well-to-do liberals taking an African-American nanny into their home offer another. Here, though, Mr. Cheever is less persuasive. For starters, the splitting behavior of Andie and Stuart is a bit too convenient. She voices fear and mistrust (let's call it racism), while he is all compensatory adoration. The new nanny can do no wrong. The opposition feels rigged.
 Louise herself moves sketchily between these opposing attributions. We get no real sense of her personality. She has won the hearts of the Cross children; she carries out her duties with unruffled expertise. She is also rumored to be an accomplished painter on the verge of major recognition, but this feels like an add-on.
 As for the ''criminal'' boyfriend, a man named Toussaint, the reader just doesn't know what to fill in. In fact, Louise is just a bundle of assigned abilities and traits. She is there -- the idea of her is there -- to keep the discomfort high and the crises coming. But when the misunderstandings involving Toussaint pile up and tragic lightning is finally made to strike, Louise is not character enough to pull the electricity to earth. A sense of unfinished psychological business hovers over the novel's end.
 So long as ''The Good Nanny'' plays at being an entertainment, it is a smart success. Mr. Cheever nails the venal behind-the-scenes scheming of editors, agents and publishers and the wit and pacing of extended exchanges get the novel past its formulaic premise. The counterpoint narration, however, brings up issues it cannot resolve. Can racism be ''done'' glancingly? Mr. Cheever's tone is, alas, armed against any real seriousness. As a result, ''The Good Nanny'' races very readably almost right to the end before it succumbs to genre confusion and winds up sounding glib about events that have to be understood as tragic.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin Cheever (Photo by Susan Farley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); WRITERS (75%); MOVIE REVIEWS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Sven Birkerts; Benjamin Cheever

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



306 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Fall 0.3%; Industrial Production Lower

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15 

 BODY:
Wholesale prices fell 0.3 percent in June, braking food and energy costs, and industrial production declined as well, according to reports released on Thursday. 
 The drop in the Producer Price Index, reported by the Labor Department, surprised economists, who had forecast a 0.2 percent rise. It was the first decline since the 0.1 percent fall in November, and came after prices had risen 0.8 percent in May and 0.7 percent in April. 
 The so-called core index, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.2 percent in June, matching economists' expectations, after a 0.3 percent increase in May.
 In other data, the Federal Reserve said that industrial production at factories, mines and utilities dropped 0.3 percent last month; it was the largest decline since April 2003 and followed a 0.9 percent increase in May. Analysts had expected a 0.1 percent rise.
 Factory production dipped 0.1 percent in June, in contrast to a 0.6 percent advance the month before. Output at utilities, which jumped 3.7 percent in May, declined 2.3 percent in June. Mining output rose 0.1 percent after being flat in May.
 ''The economy hit a speed bump in June,'' said Ken Maryland, president of ClearView Economics. The reports suggested that the Federal Reserve could maintain its gradual approach to raising interest rates, he and other analysts said.
 The Labor Department said that initial claims for unemployment benefits jumped last week by a seasonally adjusted 40,000, to 349,000. The week before, claims fell 40,000. Part of last week's increase was related to layoffs associated with temporary shutdowns at auto plants to retool for new models, a Labor Department analyst said.
 The four-week average of new claims, which tends to smooth out weekly fluctuations, rose 3,250, to 339,000. 
 The Commerce Department reported separately that businesses increased inventories 0.4 percent in May and that their sales rose 0.7 percent, a sign companies were increasing investments.
 Even with June's decline in wholesale prices, they have risen so far for the year. In the first six months of 2004, producer prices increased at a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 5 percent, compared with a 3 percent rise in the last six months of 2003. Core prices increased at a 2.5 percent pace, compared with a rise of 1.2 percent a year earlier. 
 Wholesale prices for energy, after soaring 1.6 percent in April and May, declined 1.6 percent in June. Gasoline prices, while higher than a year earlier, dropped 5.2 percent in June. Residential electric power prices declined 2.9 percent, but residential natural gas prices increased 3.1 percent.
 Food prices, which rose 1.4 percent in April and 1.5 percent in May, declined 0.6 percent in June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); FOOD PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Factories and Industrial Plants; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Sales; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



307 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Nothing but Friendly Skies for G.E.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Giant in Engines and Plane Leasing Finds Itself in Win-Win Situations

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
It would seem that any company that lends to, sells to or rents to a United States airline would be running scared these days, what with sky-high fuel prices, continued terrorism alerts and potential bankruptcies beleaguering the customer base. 
 And a company that does all three -- well, its executives ought to be chewing their fingernails past the cuticle lines. 
 So why do the people at General Electric seem so calm? 
 ''Sure, we've had impairment of assets and receivables write-offs,'' said David L. Calhoun, president of GE Transportation, which includes the company's aircraft-engine business. ''But there's no way that the plight of the United States carriers is going to determine our success or failure.'' 
 Indeed, not only does G.E. appear to be weathering the upheavals, in many ways it stands to gain from them. Should one of the teetering older airlines collapse, G.E. could find itself repossessing exactly the sort of young, fuel-efficient narrow-body jets that healthy, growing low-fare carriers like Southwest and JetBlue are clamoring for.
 On the surface, G.E.'s vulnerability to the industry's vicissitudes would seem to be huge. GE Commercial Aviation Services -- known as Gecas -- leases out more than 1,200 of its own aircraft, manages 300 leases for other owners and handles maintenance for many aircraft. GE Transportation makes engines for aircraft manufacturers whose sales -- and thus, engine purchases -- rise and fall with the fortunes of the airlines. It also relies heavily on sales of spare parts, which decline when planes fly fewer hours.
 The economic downturn that began in March 2000, followed by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, combined to diminish drastically the sales of airplane tickets, and thus the need for planes. Overproduction by both Boeing and Airbus in the late 1990's and early 2000's made the resulting glut worse.
 ''We went through the perfect storm,'' said Henry A. Hubschman, president of Gecas. ''It may not be over.'' 
 Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer of the investment management group Solaris Asset Management, said, ''There's a good chance that one or more major carriers won't survive, and that certainly can have a negative impact on G.E.'s business.'' 
 So far, though, G.E. has been largely unscathed. Its finance unit, which includes Gecas, completed a huge deal with China Eastern Airlines in the second quarter and leased 15 new Airbus A320's to a start-up airline, Virgin America. Gecas has accelerated its program for converting old airplanes to cargo planes, which require little interior refurbishing.
 Most telling, not one of Gecas's 1,200 planes was grounded in the quarter. Orders for aircraft engines were up sharply, and the company said it expected the engine unit's revenue this year to hit $12 billion, up from $10.97 billion in 2003 -- the first year-over-year growth since 2001. 
 Its fleet is in good shape, too. In the hard times after the Sept. 11 attacks, many airlines raised cash by selling their youngest aircraft to G.E. and then leasing them back. On average, Gecas planes are just six years old, down from eight in 1998.
 G.E. has also protected itself by limiting the amount it would lend on an aircraft to significantly less than its full market value. 
 Nor are airline bankruptcies a major threat to G.E. Though G.E. is a leading creditor to several of the most troubled carriers, including Air Canada, United and US Airways, some of that lending has been so-called debtor-in-possession financing during Chapter 11 reorganizations, putting G.E. at the head of the line for repayment. And it has begun to ''cross collateralize'' its loans -- allowing it to take collateral from one loan in repayment of another to the same borrower. 
 G.E. advanced $1.4 billion to United after Sept. 11, yet Mr. Hubschman is untroubled. ''We haven't lost a penny,'' he said, ''and we aren't going to, even if United is liquidated.'' 
 He insists that repossessed planes are easy to place. When Varig Airlines of Brazil ran into difficulties a few years ago, he said, G.E. took back almost 40 planes. It quickly re-leased most of them to airlines in China, Malaysia and elsewhere.
 G.E. is not alone in its good fortune, of course. American International Group's International Lease Finance subsidiary, G.E.'s main plane leasing rival, has an even younger fleet, and its profits, which declined for a couple of years, ticked back up in the first quarter of 2004.
 ''Thanks to our fuel-efficient aircraft and the low interest rate environment,'' John L. Plueger, its president, said, ''our earnings have been pretty remarkably preserved.''
 Perhaps most important, it is only the old, heavily unionized airlines like United and US Airways that are reeling, and they are a small part of the customer base. Gecas has more than 200 customers in 63 countries; only 27 of them are based in the United States. Only 20 of International Lease Finance's 138 customers are in the United States or Canada. 
 ''We can't even satisfy the demand from the Middle East and Asia for single-aisle, narrow-bodied, fuel-efficient planes,'' Mr. Hubschman said. 
 Mr. Plueger of International Lease Finance is similarly ebullient. ''The Asia-Pacific region has really absorbed the younger planes that airline bankruptcies sent back into the market,'' he said. 
 The United States airline market is expanding, too. Low-cost airlines like JetBlue and Southwest have grown exponentially, and are constantly hungry for more narrow-body planes to fly. 
 Still, headwinds do continue to blow. The Internet enables passengers to shop for the lowest fares. Corporations are substituting videoconferences for plane trips, and management experts say that the days when executives routinely flew first class are gone. Another terrorist event involving airplanes could re-instill fear of flying in many people. And aircraft manufacturers could overproduce again.
 ''It's always a question mark, whether Boeing or Airbus will make too many planes to satisfy too few customers,'' Mr. Calhoun conceded. 
 Competition for engine orders and airplane leases remains intense. Pratt & Whitney is stepping up its research and development to better compete for orders for the next generation of regional jets, according to Mark Sullivan, a spokesman for the company. On the leasing front, Mr. Plueger's company is taking delivery of 100 new planes this year, and has 308 more on order through 2010. 
 Still, with its diversity and sheer size, G.E. seems best positioned to hedge its bets. That is the view emphasized by Mr. Ghriskey of Solaris Asset Management, which has been trading in and out of G.E.'s stock for years, buying when it lags the market and selling when it outperforms. (G.E. stock closed yesterday at $33.37, up 24 cents.) 
 ''If one piece of G.E. goes through a period of weakness, it can't destroy the company,'' Mr. Ghriskey said. ''The strength of aircraft engines and leasing remains pretty irrelevant to the overall picture that is G.E.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about the effect of airline industry troubles on the General Electric Company attributed a comment erroneously to Henry A. Hubschman, president of GE Commercial Aviation Services. While he did refer to the last few years as ''the perfect storm,'' it was the writer of the article who said, ''It may not be over.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The plight of United States airlines is not ''going to determine our success or failure,'' David L. Calhoun of G.E. says. (Photo by Tom Uhlman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Boeing said this year that it had chosen General Electric and Rolls-Royce to supply engines for its new 7E7 jetliner. (Photo by Sara D. Davis/Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); REPOSSESSION (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); AIR SERVICE (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); TICKET SALES (64%); STARTUPS (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Jet Engines and Jet Propulsion; Company and Organization Profiles; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); GE COMMERCIAL AVIATION SERVICES (86%); CHINA EASTERN AIRLINES CORP LTD (84%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%); AIRBUS SAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); K3CD (SGX) (84%); CEA (NYSE) (84%); 0670 (HKSE) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



308 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Bollywood Discovers New Jersey's Subplots

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
Following in the sasquatchian footsteps of Hollywood, Bollywood is also going global. The Hindi-language film industry, based in what was once called Bombay and is now Mumbai (somehow, Mumbywood seems unlikely to catch on as a blanket term for the business), has followed the Indian diaspora and now produces films in the United States as well, and in this case largely in English.
 ''Flavors,'' written and directed by Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK, was shot and is set mostly in New Jersey, where the thoroughly Americanized Rad (Anupam Mittal) is about to be married to his tall, blond American fiancee (Jicky Schnee). Rad's tradition-minded parents, arriving from the old country for the big event, are at first appalled by American customs like women smoking on the street, but before too long they are happily adopting American folkways, including wearing promotional T-shirts and going for aimless walks along empty suburban streets. 
 The wedding is a device to bring together several subplots. Kartik (Reef Karim) invites his long-distance phone pal, Rachna (Pooja Kumar, now on Broadway in ''Bombay Dreams''), to fly in as his guest for the wedding, hoping their relationship will develop into something more. Sangita (Sireesha Katragadda) is a lonely newlywed whose husband, Nikhil (Gaurang Vyas), is distracted by problems at work. And Candy (Rishma Malik) is a den mother to three unemployed computer programmers who pass their time drinking beer and pining for romance.
 The picture is bright, good-spirited and blissfully short for Bollywood, at a mere 118 minutes. The conflicts all center on that classic theme of immigrant cinema -- homegrown, traditional values versus the liberal mores of the new country -- and are resolved with grace, humor and very few surprises. But Bollywood fans will be disappointed by the lack of the wonderfully demented musical numbers that are the Hindi cinema's defining characteristic. Such things, it seems, are not globalizable.
 ''Flavors'' opens today in New York, New Jersey, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Atlanta, Dallas, Houston, Detroit, Washington, Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia.

FLAVORS

Written and directed by Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK; director of photography, Dave Isern; edited by Frank Reynolds; music by Mahesh Shankar and Leslie Lewis; production designer, Tushar Unadkat; produced by Anupam Mittal, Mr. Nidimoru and Krishna DK; released by Net Effect Media. Running time: 118 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Pooja Kumar (Rachna), Reef Karim (Kartik), Bharati Achrekar (Mom), Anjan Srivastava (Dad), Anupam Mittal (Rad), Jicky Schnee (Jenni), Sireesha Katragadda (Sangita), Gaurang Vyas (Nikhil) and Rishma Malik (Candy).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Reef Karim plays Kartik in one subplot of ''Flavors.'' (Photo by Net Effect Media) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%); SUBURBS (53%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Raj Nidimoru; Krishna Dk; Anupam Mittal; Jicky Schnee

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (66%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (91%); CANADA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



309 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Profit, Up by 17%, Bucks Trend In Industry

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M., a bellwether of the corporate computing business, supplied a modest dose of steadying reassurance yesterday to a shaky technology sector.
 The world's largest computer maker and technology services provider reported quarterly profits that surpassed Wall Street estimates at a time when much of the recent news from computer hardware and software companies has been of surprisingly bad earnings, rising inventories and uncertain prospects.
 I.B.M. declared itself on target to meet the current profit and sales projections of Wall Street analysts for 2004. Mark Loughridge, the chief financial officer, said that the company still expected worldwide spending on information technology -- computer hardware, software and services -- to rise by 4 or 5 percent this year, the best performance since 2000. 
 I.B.M., like other technology suppliers, did notice a pause in corporate buying at the end of the second quarter, especially in its software business. But Mr. Loughridge, in a conference call with securities analysts, said that he regarded the pause as a temporary setback and added that deferrals of purchasing would probably become selling opportunities in the current quarter.
 The broad message from I.B.M. was that the slow, steady recovery in technology spending -- which accounts for about half of all business investment -- still seems on course. I.B.M. executives said that the tepid sales in June might have been a bit puzzling, as is the recent uncertainty about the economy in general. But they strongly suggested that the slippage seemed to be temporary.
 ''We are confident about our prospects going forward,'' Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said in a statement.
 I.B.M. is far from a perfect stand-in for the technology industry as a whole. More of its revenues, from services and mainframe software, come from a fairly steady subscriptionlike business than at most other computer hardware or software companies, which do not have the ballast of so much recurring revenue. I.B.M. is also more international than many companies, so it is less susceptible to economic swings in the United States.
 ''But on balance, in this environment, I.B.M. made a pretty good showing,'' said A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''It's modestly encouraging for the industry.''
 I.B.M. reported its quarterly results after the market closed, and its shares rose as high as $85.18 in after-hours trading. In the regular trading session, I.B.M. shares closed at $84.02, down 11 cents.
 The company reported profit of nearly $1.99 billion, up 17 percent from $1.71 billion in the year-earlier quarter. It reported earnings per share of $1.16, or 4 cents higher than the consensus estimate of Wall Street analysts. I.B.M. earned 98 cents a share in the second quarter of 2003.
 Revenue in the quarter rose 7 percent, to $23.2 billion, compared with $21.6 billion a year earlier. The revenue figure for the quarter was about $150 million less than projections of Wall Street analysts. After adjusting for currency gains, I.B.M.'s revenues rose only 4 percent.
 Hardware sales were particularly strong, rising 12 percent, to $7.4 billion, helped by a 44 percent gain in mainframe revenue. Software sales were flat, down 4 percent adjusting for currency, at $3.5 billion. ''We had some of the same challenges highlighted by our pure-play competitors in the last two weeks,'' Mr. Loughridge said.
 Revenue from I.B.M.'s big services business rose 7 percent, to $11.3 billion, though only 2 percent after adjusting for currency gains. The company signed 10 deals of more than $100 million and its backlog of contracts now stands at $118 billion. Today, I.B.M. is expected to announce a sizable contract with the oil producer Petrobras, Brazil's largest company, to supply advanced computers and services for oil exploration projects.
 I.B.M.'s earnings were also helped by income from intellectual property sales and licensing, which varies widely quarter by quarter; it more than doubled, to $432 million. 
 ''It's too early to tell precisely what is happening in the technology sector,'' Mr. Sacconaghi of Sanford C. Bernstein said, ''and I.B.M. does not provide a definitive answer.''
 Most surveys of technology spending expectations still point to a recovery. CIO Magazine reported this month that corporate executives surveyed in June said that they expected to increase technology spending by an average of 8.2 percent over the next 12 months, the highest level of optimism in more than three years.
 ''It's been like a 747 taking off, a long slow climb -- that's what we've seen for the last six months,'' said Gary Beach, publisher of CIO. ''Companies are retooling their technology infrastructures because they are aging. We don't see any evidence yet that they will pull back from that trend.''
 Still, there are signs that many did ease up on the spending throttle at the end of the second quarter. The final couple of weeks of each quarter are typically when bargaining reaches a conclusion and half of all quarterly technology sales are made. But this time, many end-of-the-quarter spending decisions were put off. Analysts cite several possible explanations for companies' having second thoughts about the business outlook and the consequent reluctance to spend: higher oil prices, worries about the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq, the bump up in interest rates, and weaker job growth.
 Changed technology buying habits in the postslump years, analysts note, make it easier for companies to respond to perceived economic changes. ''Technology projects are smaller in size and shorter in duration, so it makes it easier to turn spending on and off more quickly,'' said John Gantz, director of research for IDC.
 Software companies, in particular, seem to have been caught by surprise. Computer Associates, Siebel, PeopleSoft, Veritas and others warned that their earnings would fall short of expectations or they lowered their growth projections. Inventories of hardware makers, including Intel, which reported on Tuesday, are rising as corporate buying has lagged.
 As the second-quarter reporting season begins, more technology companies have been forced to warn investors that their profits would be worse than expected. According to Thomson First Call, 188 technology companies made advance announcements that second-quarter results would be significantly worse than Wall Street estimates, while 117 companies made preannouncements that results would be better than expected.
 The negative-to-positive ratio of 1.6 is better than the historical average of 2.0. But it represents a decline from the first quarter, when the ratio was 1.3. ''Over all, that ratio is pretty good, but it's getting worse,'' said Gint Rimas, an analyst for Thomson First Call. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INVENTORIES (72%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) Computers and the Internet; Company Reports

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%) Mark Loughlin; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



310 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: A Mule's Long Trek in Search Of the North American Dream

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
It's painfully understandable that the 17-year-old title character of ''Maria Full of Grace'' would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. This gripping Colombian film, written and directed by Joshua Marston, follows the desperate plunge of Maria Alvarez (Catalina Sandino Moreno) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld.
 This treacherous territory, where young women, seduced by suave, sweet-talking recruiters, can earn large sums by smuggling heroin into the United States, is Maria's last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Her ruthless new bosses make her former taskmasters look like angels. 
 Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it depicts Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in the rural village where she lives with her mother, grandmother and sister. She is expected to turn over to the family the minuscule salary she earns dethorning roses in a sweatshop atmosphere.
 Hounded by her boss to be more productive, she impulsively quits. Even when her family panics, she refuses to grovel to get her job back. She also becomes pregnant by her deadbeat boyfriend, Juan (Wilson Guerrero), who reluctantly offers to marry her. Because she doesn't love him, she turns down the proposal.
 The movie, which opens today in New York and Los Angeles, portrays Maria's story as a variation of the predicament that draws thousands of young Colombian women into the drug trade. Courted by Franklin (Jhon Alex Toro), a charming, motorcycle-riding recruiter she meets in a club, she is introduced to his ominously soothing boss, Javier (Jaime Osorio Gomez), who lays out the rules and invites her to try out for the role of illicit courier.
 If Maria's story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat during the movie is Maria herself. In a performance that feels lived in rather than acted, Ms. Moreno's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and an ingenuity that compromises but never undermines her essential decency and morality.
 Any hope of success as a smuggler requires that Maria lie with a straight face under extreme stress. Before flying to New York with trumped-up papers and cash, she trains for the job in practice sessions by swallowing large grapes that are the same size as the drug-filled pellets she'll carry in her stomach. Once she has mastered the technique, she gulps 62 pellets, along with medicine that slows the digestive system. If a single pellet breaks inside her, she's told, she will die of an overdose. And if she excretes any pellets before arriving on New York, she must immediately clean and re-ingest them.
 Maria's journey from Bogota to New York in a plane with three other smugglers is one of the tensest flights ever filmed. Upon her arrival she is pulled aside, interrogated and threatened with being X-rayed. Only her pregnancy prevents her from being internally examined and arrested.
 In the film's ugliest scenes, Maria and two other women are roughly hustled into a car by thugs and driven to a sleazy New Jersey hotel, where they're dosed with laxatives and held prisoner. If one pellet breaks or is found missing, death is certain. If she escapes, she is warned, deadly reprisals will be taken against her family. Among the three other smugglers on the flight, one is incarcerated at the airport, while Maria's clinging best friend, Blanca (Yenny Paola Vega), who signed on to the program, and Lucy (Guilied Lopez), an experienced smuggler with relatives in Queens, make it as far as New Jersey.
 But the unpredictable story, which involves several cruel surprises, doesn't end there. Maria winds up in Queens, temporarily sheltered by Lucy's pregnant sister, Carla (Patricia Rae), and her husband in their tiny, overcrowded apartment. The movie offers a pungent and sympathetic look at the closely knit Colombian immigrant community, whose neighborhood leader, Don Fernando (Orlando Tobon), is a middleman among the immigrants, the drug lords and the sympathetic employers who help new arrivals get a foothold in the United States.
 ''Maria Full of Grace'' sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is offhand. Even when you're on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing. Even the airport interrogators aren't monsters, just everyday officials efficiently carrying out their duties.
 Maria's desperate decision may be reprehensible on one level. But on another, deeper level, it is an act of courageous self-assertion. You applaud every step of her scary lunge toward personal liberation.
 ''Maria Full of Grace'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for obscenity, violence, and scenes of drug use.

MARIA FULL OF GRACE

Written (in Spanish, with English subtitles) and directed by Joshua Marston; director of photography, Jim Denault; edited by Anne McCabe and Lee Percy; music by Jacobo Lieberman and Leonardo Heiblum; production designers, Monica Marulanda and Debbie De Villa; produced by Paul Mezey; released by HBO Films and Fine Line Features. Running time: 101 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Catalina Sandino Moreno (Maria), Yenny Paola Vega (Blanca), Guilied Lopez (Lucy), Jhon Alex Toro (Franklin), Patricia Rae (Carla), Wilson Guerrero (Juan), Jaime Osorio Gomez (Javier) and Orlando Tobon (Don Fernando).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Catalina Sandino Moreno as a desperate Colombian woman smuggling drugs into the United States in ''Maria Full of Grace.'' (Photo by HBO Films/Fine Line Features) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFICKING (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); HEROIN (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Stephen Holden; Joshua Marston; Catalina Sandino Moreno

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



311 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; COMMODITIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Cancels a Meeting; Output Plan to Stay the Same

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 15 

 BODY:
OPEC took the world energy industry by surprise on Thursday by abruptly canceling a meeting it had scheduled for Vienna next week to review production quotas and oil prices. 
 Instead, the cartel said it would simply continue the policy it adopted in Beirut in June -- a 2 percent increase in quotas, effective in August, meant to ease prices down from record highs.
 Purnomo Yusgiantoro, the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, said that officials from the group's 11 members discussed the state of the oil market by telephone on Wednesday and concluded that it was ''essentially unchanged'' from June. 
 Oil prices have fallen about 4 percent since the Beirut meeting, and appear to have settled at a level just above $40 a barrel for the benchmark grade. Crude for August delivery closed at $40.77 a barrel in New York, down 20 cents, after the announcement from OPEC headquarters in Vienna. At that level, oil is about 30 percent more expensive than a year ago, largely because of strong demand in the United States and China. 
 A sense that demand will remain high encouraged OPEC to go ahead with its planned increase ''in order to maintain adequate supply to the market and support the continued robust global economic growth,'' said Mr. Purnomo, who is also Indonesia's energy minister. ''The organization will nevertheless continue to closely monitor market developments.''
 OPEC's decision to raise its output target to 26 million barrels a day at the start of August, up from 25.5 million barrels a day, still appears to be largely symbolic, because many members of the group are believed to be significantly exceeding their quotas already. 
 The International Energy Administration said this week that actual production by OPEC members reached 26.9 million barrels a day in June, an increase of nearly 1 million barrels from May. Global oil demand is forecast to rise by 2.49 million barrels a day this year, enticing oil producers everywhere to pump as much as possible, according to the agency. 
 Analysts who follow OPEC, whose members account for about one-third of global oil production, scrambled to make sense of the unusual decision to cancel the Vienna meeting. Some said it was possible that members wanted to avoid discussing how little excess production capacity they now have. 
 ''Their decision to stick to their earlier decision is almost moot,'' said Katherine Spector, an energy strategist at J.P. Morgan. ''Oil ministers kind of like to go to Vienna -- but then again, what is there to dwell on this time around?'' 
 Saudi Arabia, OPEC's pivotal member and de facto leader, is the only one believed to have significant spare capacity. In recent weeks, Saudi officials have tried to calm the markets after a series of terrorist attacks and other violent incidents directed at Westerners in the country. 
 Saudi Arabia is already pumping much of the extra 2.5 million barrels a day that OPEC pledged to provide by the end of the summer. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since January 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Futures and Options Trading 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AUSTRIA (94%); LEBANON (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



312 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2465 words

HEADLINE: Summertime at P.S. 1: Where Opposites Like Hands On/Hands Off Attract

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Summer doesn't lull much at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, especially since the venerable alternative space became an affiliate of the Museum of Modern Art in 2000. On Saturdays, at least, the place teems with people, thanks to the center's summer Warm Up series, which features a D.J. spinning music at the top of the building's wide steps from 3 to 9 p.m. This event predictably fills the courtyard with several thousand of the city's young and youthful, who come to listen, dance, see, be seen and get convivial. 
 Part of the fun is the courtyard's latest architectural folly, designed each summer by the winner of the MoMA/P.S. 1 Young Architects Program. The basic requirements are shade, water, bar facilities and lounging options. Wading pools, mist machines and sunning or dancing platforms are usual factors. The 2004 winner, nARCHITECTS, has designed ''Canopy,'' a beautiful bamboo structure that reaches over the wall between the big and smaller courtyards like the skeleton of an undulating worm. It is too spindly and transparent to provide much shade, but it is exceptionally beautiful as sculpture, especially when viewed from one of the many windows. 
 Indoors, things are also jumping, more so than usual. The current exhibitions and artists' projects have an unusually high rate of memorable moments and together reflect the current state of contemporary art as usefully as a Whitney Biennial. 
 Two big theme shows define the spectrum: ''Hard Light'' and ''Curious Crystals of Unusual Purity,'' which fittingly hold down opposite ends of P.S. 1's third floor. Assuming that all dichotomies are false, but some less false than others, these shows could be said to represent the main polar opposites of our moment, which could be described as ''Camera/No Camera'' or, if you prefer, ''Mechanical/Hands On.''

'Hard Light'
 The Camera/Mechanical position is firmly held by ''Hard Light,'' an exhibition of video, photography and installations by nine artists organized by P.S. 1's chief curator, Klaus Biesenbach, in collaboration with the artist Doug Aitken. This is a good show, but also an unbalanced one. Mr. Aitken's ''Interiors,'' a large and ambitious 2002 installation involving three big video projections in a T-shaped structure made of 11 screens, has pride of place in the show's big central gallery. Combined with his billing as co-curator, the size and placement of his piece tend to make everything else seem a little ancillary. 
 Don't get me wrong. Despite its lopsidedness, the show has strength. It includes contemporary works by Ugo Rondinone, Fischli/Weiss and Carsten Holler, with historical backup provided by a Bruce Nauman corridor, the storyboards for Chris Marker's classic underground film ''La Jetee'' (1962), and the preparatory materials for ''Hard Light,'' a 1978 book of photographs and text by Lawrence Weiner and Ed Ruscha.
 Taken as a whole, the show raises interesting ideas about narrative, architecture, landscape and the perception of space and light, all the while combining a rather cold factualness with various forms of glamour, whether it is the industrial fabrication of ''Atomium Phi,'' Mr. Holler's blinking-light sculpture; the floor-to-ceiling hanging of misty ocean views (populated or not by one of two attractive young women) that is Mr. Rondinone's ''Sleep''; or the physical aggressiveness of Mr. Nauman's ''Green Light Corridor.'' In this well-known 1970 installation, the visitor squeezes between two walls 40 feet long and 12 inches apart, a slice of space made stranger by fluorescent green lights. 
 But arrayed in galleries that surround the big one holding Mr. Aitken's ''Interiors,'' these works suffer from an all-roads-lead-to-Rome problem. They seem to be included primarily to isolate one of the qualities or elements that Mr. Aitken brings together quite effectively in ''Interiors,'' which means that the show can sometimes seem like a form of mutual homage, in which Mr. Aitken acknowledges valued influences and colleagues while outshining their reflected glory. 
 Mr. Aitken gets away with this because ''Interiors'' is exceptionally good. It develops ideas about narrative, sound and space (both social and volumetric) that were already interesting in his ''Electric Earth'' of 1999. (That piece was memorable in both the 2001 Venice Biennale and the 2002 Whitney Biennial, and was acquired by the Whitney.) 
 The interiors of the work's title would seem to be human ones, the place in each person where thoughts, dreams, passions and particular talents reside and build toward outward expression. In effect, Mr. Aitken's camera follows four individuals from inside to outside, from pensive pent-up energy to energy unleashed in a way that involves speed and sound. Each sequence starts out quietly, the individuals wander through their lives and various settings -- natural, industrial and postindustrial.
 But soon each is revealed to be a kind of specialist -- an artist if you will. A woman turns out to be a fierce handball player, a man seems to be one of the world's fastest rappers (he is Andre Benjamin of OutKast) and a worker in a helicopter factory demonstrates an equally rapid-fire proficiency as a tap dancer. A quiet Japanese man who rehearses in what seems to be an empty lecture hall is an auctioneer at the famous Tokyo fish market.
 These four narratives shift constantly among the three screens, with Mr. Aitken's editing gaining pace as his subjects begin to manifest their special skills. The work periodically builds into a cacophony of speeding-up close-ups and loud percussive rhythms, sounds spoken, tapped, grunted or thwacked by one person acting alone, making his or her presence known. 

'Curious Crystals'
 This sprawling group show, which has been organized by Bob Nikas, P.S. 1's curatorial adviser, with Steve Lafreniere, a D.J., writer and editor at Index magazine, as guest curator, speaks for the continued thrills of hands-on, mostly camera-free objectmaking. With more than 100 works by 36 artists, it was inspired by the idea of the wunderkammer, the displays of earthly delights -- both natural and manmade -- assembled by rich collectors, scholars and princes beginning in the 15th and 16th centuries. They were in a way the aesthete's response to the Age of Discovery. 
 To my eye, the show is actually a little short on wondrous sights as far as individual artworks are concerned. But the curators have proceeded with the deliberation and thought that is something of a trademark in Nikas exhibitions. The show is a tightly woven affair with each piece is locked in close dialog with those around it, usually on several levels, despite frequent shifts in style and subject and medium.
 One minute you're looking at Jeff Davis's drawings of minuscule homoerotic figures, the next at ''Glimmerer,'' an abstract installation/wall painting by Lisa Beck that actively lives up to its name. At another point you'll proceed from Amy Gartell's hallucinatory rock-posterish drawings to Michelle Segre's sculptures of brightly hued mutant cacti, or from Ara Peterson's ''Vision Master,'' an optical black and white DVD that resembles an animated Bridget Riley, to an equally optically strange painting by John Trembley. 
 Wonder, of course, involves an ele
ment of surprise and unexpectedness, so it makes sense that quite a few of the works here are unfamiliar and that none of the artists match the star status of those in ''Hard Light.'' Most are emerging, re-emerging or underknown. Some, like the abstract painter Peter Young, haven't been heard from in years; others, like Harry Smith, have only been recently resurrected; and still others, like Bruce Conner, are reclusive. 
 To a certain extent this is more a curator's than an artist's show. But if taken slowly, one object at a time, while attending to the implied bridges between works, this show will win you over or wear you down. Either way you will emerge with a new understanding that something strange, wonderful and quasi-visionary lurks beneath the surface of all kinds of art. 

Lee Lozano
 The first retrospective devoted to the New York artist Lee Lozano, who died in 1999 at 68, is an angry, often engaging affair. Lozano certainly had her weaknesses as an artist, but when economically expressed, satiric rage can have its own kind of cartoonish force, and this force runs through just about everything she did. The show, ''Drawn From Life, 1961-71,'' begins with acerbic paintings and drawings of enormous battling tools that both borrow from and parody the masculine swagger of Abstract Expressionism.
 In one work a wrench and a claw hammer go at it; in another, drill bits and razor blades clash. In a series of graphite and crayon drawings, these tools become increasingly vocal and obscene and gradually mutate into body parts and orifices. Then, in the late 1960's, the work suddenly succumbs to Minimalism and goes relatively mute. The first works are monochromatic canvases that are perforated with circles or, in one case, a grid of round-cornered squares. These are followed by a series of beautifully crafted if rather generic works involving shaded monochromatic forms, shafts and orbs that still have some of the sexual force of the drawings. 
 At the show's end, Lozano's savage wit lies in ambush, this time in a series of drawings and written notes documenting private performance pieces, including ''Masturbation Piece,'' ''Grass Piece'' and the ''No Grass Piece.'' One work states: ''I offer to think about something for anyone.'' Regardless of what you think of the actual art objects, Lozano's slightly unhinged raucous anger will ring in your ears.

Smaller Shows
 The dualities of the larger shows are reflected in the smaller ones, nearly all of which deserve attention. Several exhibitions with photography, video or sound might almost be extensions of ''Hard Light,'' in a softer sort of way, while aggressively physical works continue the hand-made emphasis of ''Curious Crystals.'' 
 With its live feed from cities around the world and its sci-fi-noir, postcardlike snippets of spoken text, ''Time Deferred on Cancellation,'' by the German-born, New York-based artist Jenny Vogel operates in the same orbit as Mr. Rondinone's and Fischli/Weiss's contributions to ''Hard Light.'' So does the exhibition of photographic and slide projection works by the Los Angeles-based artist and critic Walead Beshty, whose photographs of vacant shopping centers, ''Dead Malls,'' manages to be both mordant and sad.
 The sense of cultural decline can be found in the gap between the nocturnal photographs of the photographer William Gedney (1933-1989), taken during cross-country trips between 1965 and 1975, with those taken by the painter Christopher Wool in New York City's Chinatown and Lower East Side in the late 1990's. Ryan McGinley's large nocturnal photographs of nubile, usually naked adolescents romping in trees, fields and streams echo the wan romanticism of Mr. Rondinone's work.
 ''Avanti Popolo,'' an exercise in simultaneous sound by the Sarajevo-born but Paris-based artist Maja Bajevic, consists of the national anthems of 30 countries playing on sound systems crowded in one gallery. It creates the uneasy feeling that the world will never ''just get along,'' as Rodney King put it.
 Materiality reigns one way or another in Johnston Foster's installation ''Permanent Vacation,'' an adamantly determined landscape environment, made mostly of foam rubber and vinyl, that is more interesting than its featured inhabitants, four ghosts in a hot tub; and the more free-style sculpture by the Brazilian artist Marepe, involving a tub full of Styrofoam cups that the viewer can churn. 
 The most imposing installation is Phoebe Washburn's ''Seconds of Something,'' in which obsessive recycling is manifested by a room-size ramp cobbled from found wood scraps and huge but not thick rolls of pasted-together found newspaper painted different colors according to the day of collection. The work's hefty Conceptual framework, incessant track-keeping and color coding relates to the work of Danica Phelps and Michael Banicki. The totality suggests an abandoned and terraced work site, or the fragment of a crudely enlarged topographical map. Adding to the sense of irrational industriousness is the fact that everything used to transport and install the piece has stayed in it. 
 Best of show, among the artists' projects, is Mika Rottenberg's hilarious video-installation ''Mary's Cherries.'' The viewer sits in a small room whose walls are covered with plaster Dairy-Queen-dip curls (lifesize) and watching, on video, the goings-on in a stack of three similar rooms. Each is inhabited by a hefty woman of a certain age wearing a bright uniform suggestive of a fast-food worker or a washroom attendant, who sits pedaling on an exercise bike while performing tasks and passing things to the other women through holes in the floors.
 Red fingernails are clipped, pounded into pulp, and passed along, only to regrow. Maraschino cherries are -- pardon the expression -- popped, then pounded and passed on. Hamburgers and damp washcloths arrive by conveyor belt and are distributed. As everything whirs along, each transaction is signaled by a call-out from one woman to the others above or below: Mary, Barbara, Rose. The sound is as good as the color. A strange mixture of sexual rite, beauty treatment and assembly-line labor is implied. If Matthew Barney's film epic doesn't come to mind -- in particular the languid sylphlike flight attendants of ''Cremaster 1'' -- you may be living in a different universe than I am. 
 Finally, don't miss Michael Lin's ''Grind'' in P.S. 1's refurbished cafe: an expanse of hot pink faux linoleum with a huge floral pattern that evokes both chintz and the peony motif of Chinese art. Swooping down from the ceiling to cover the entire floor, it suggests a giant roll of fabric unfurled for our perusal. I hate to say it, because I'm a fan of his work, but it is better than the Rudolf Stingel's piece at Grand Central Terminal. 
 If art is your main interest, it might not be a good idea to visit P.S. 1 on a Saturday afternoon. The music booms off the courtyard walls and the hallways and galleries can fill up with people. Still, it is gratifying to realize that some of them came to dance and then stayed to look around, and that the contemporary arts audience is expanding before your eyes.

''Hard Light'' and ''Curious Crystals of Unusual Purity'' are on view at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, through Sept. 27. ''Lee Lozano: Drawn From Life, 1961-1971'' and the nARCHITECTS ''Canopy'' end Sept. 5. Smaller shows will close at different times in September: (718) 784-2084,


GRAPHIC: Photos: The group show ''Curious Crystals of Unusual Purity'' at P.S. 1, conceived as a wonder cabinet with works placed to show connections among them. In the center, ''Training Crash'' (1996-98) by Christopher Lucas. (Photo by Eva Heyd/P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center)
Above, Phoebe Washburn's ''Seconds of Something'' (2004), a study in meticulously documented recycling. Top, a view from Doug Aitken's ''Interiors'' installation (2002), the centerpiece of ''Hard Light.'' (Photo by Eva Heyd/P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center)
Scenes from ''Mary's Cherries'' (2004), Mika Rottenberg's video installation. Objects are passed woman to woman in separate rooms. (Photo by Mika Rottenberg/P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center)
 A large detail from an untitled tool drawing by Lee Lozano from 1963-64. It is part of a retrospective covering the decade 1961 to 1971. (Photo by P.S. 1/Contemporary Art Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Ps 1 Contemporary Art Center (NYC)

PERSON: Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



313 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices and Some Weak Profits Weigh Down Shares

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday amid disappointing news from companies like PepsiCo, Pfizer and Nokia, and as oil prices settled near six-week highs.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.78 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,106.69. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 45.64 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,163.16, the lowest level since May 26. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.17, or 0.1 percent, to 1,912.71, for its fourth straight loss, the longest streak since April 30. 
 ''It's an unforgiving climate right now,'' said Cummins Catherwood, who helps manage $750 million at Walnut Asset Management in Philadelphia. ''When you have a success, they yawn and give you a little pat on the back. When you have less than a success, they bang you on the head.''
 Seven stocks advanced for every five that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.41 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, in line with the three-month daily average.
 Even as companies have begun to report second-quarter earnings, the fluctuations in the stock market have been muted.
 In the last month, the S.&P. 500 has risen or fallen more than 1 percent during the day only twice, on July 1 and July 6.
 ''The earnings haven't been phenomenal,'' said Todd Leone, head of listed trading at SG Cowen & Company. ''There is no volatility. There is nothing to get the market moving in one way or the other.''
 Oil prices held near their highest since June 1. Crude for August delivery lost 0.5 percent, to $40.77 a barrel in New York. On Wednesday, oil prices increased 4.1 percent, raising concern that higher fuel costs will curb spending by consumers and companies.
 PepsiCo shares lost $1.49, to $51.92, the lowest price since March 26. The company had second-quarter profit of 61 cents a share, matching the average analyst estimate in a Thomson First Call poll, as sales rose at the slowest pace in a year. Earnings for the year should be at least $2.29, the company said. Analysts had expected profit of $2.31, according to Thomson.
 Pfizer, the world's biggest drug maker, declined $1.43, to $32.58. The 4.2 percent drop was the biggest in the Dow average. The company reduced its full-year sales forecast by about $1 billion, to $53 billion, because of lower revenue for some products and also because of foreign-currency fluctuations. The company said it would give details when it reports earnings on Wednesday.
 Nokia, the Finnish company that is the world's largest maker of mobile phones, said third-quarter profit and sales would fall as it cuts prices to counter increased competition. Its shares lost $1.79, or 13 percent, to $12.45 on the Big Board. The shares were among the five most active in the United States, with 61 million shares traded.
 Apple Computer climbed $3.35, or 11 percent, to $32.93, for the biggest gain in the S.&P. 500. The company said fiscal third-quarter earnings more than tripled on a threefold climb in iPod shipments. Excluding some costs, profit was 17 cents a share, more than the average analyst estimate of 15 cents in a Thomson survey.
 SanDisk gained $4.11, or 21 percent, to $24.09. The company, the biggest maker of memory cards used in digital cameras, says sales this quarter may exceed analysts' estimates. Second-quarter profit rose 71 percent and the earnings per share, at 38 cents, exceeded the estimate of 30 cents in a Thomson poll.
 Treasury prices changed little yesterday; the benchmark 10-year note was unchanged. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since March, 2004. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CURRENCIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (84%); COWEN GROUP INC (66%); PEPSICO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); COWN (NASDAQ) (66%); PEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



314 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Labor Board Says Graduate Students at Private Universities Have No Right to Unionize

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
The fast-growing movement to unionize graduate students at the nation's private universities suffered a crushing setback yesterday when the National Labor Relations Board reversed itself and ruled that students who worked as research and teaching assistants did not have the right to unionize.
 In a case involving Brown University, the labor board ruled 3 to 2 that graduate teaching and research assistants were essentially students, not workers, and thus should not have the right to unionize to negotiate over wages, benefits and other conditions of employment. 
 The Republican-controlled board reversed a four-year-old decision involving New York University, a private institution, in which the board, then controlled by Democrats, concluded that graduate teaching and research assistants should be able to unionize because their increased responsibilities had essentially turned them into workers. 
 As a result of the 2000 N.Y.U. ruling, students there formed the first graduate employees' union at a private university in the nation. (Graduate student workers at public universities are governed by state labor laws rather than federal law, and many states have given them the right to unionize.) 
 Sheldon E. Steinbach, vice president and general counsel for the American Council on Education, a trade group that represents universities and other educational institutions, called the ruling ''magnificent'' but said he was not surprised by it because of the labor board's changed lineup. The N.Y.U. decision was itself a reversal of the board's decades-old position that graduate assistants should not be able to unionize.
 ''The previous decision in the N.Y.U. case overturned over 30 years of determinations by the National Labor Relations Board on whether graduate students who worked as teaching and research assistants were students or employees,'' Mr. Steinbach said. ''And it threatened the traditional relationship between colleges and their graduate student assistants.'' 
 But Edward J. McElroy, the secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of Teachers, who is set to be elected the union's president today, called the decision ''outrageous.''
 ''These people obviously are workers,'' Mr. McElroy said. ''If members of the N.L.R.B. can't recognize a worker when they see one, they shouldn't be on a national labor board.'' 
 After the N.Y.U. decision, graduate teaching and research assistants at Brown, Columbia, Tufts and the University of Pennsylvania voted on whether they should unionize, but those universities appealed to the National Labor Relations Board. The votes were not counted while the cases were pending.
 One of the board's five seats was vacant until last December, so it was effectively split and it postponed ruling on many issues, including this one. That left the unionization efforts in limbo. 
 Lauren Nauta, a graduate teaching assistant in history at the University of Pennsylvania, said many of her colleagues were fuming about the ruling. ''We think it's an injustice that graduate employees at private universities have been denied the same right as those at public universities,'' she said. ''This ruling shows the partisan nature of the N.L.R.B.''
 It is unclear what yesterday's ruling will mean for the future of the graduate employees' union at N.Y.U., which now has a contract with the university. Once the current contract expires, labor experts said, the school may no longer be required to recognize the union or bargain with it. 
 N.Y.U. officials said yesterday that they were ''gratified'' by the labor board's decision, but declined to say whether they would continue to live with their graduate student union or end the relationship when the union contract expires next year.
 The contract that N.Y.U. reached with the union representing its graduate student assistants in 2002 raised stipends for many of them by nearly 40 percent, provided health care benefits and paid them extra if they worked more than 20 hours a week. 
 In its decision, the labor board rejected a petition by the United Automobile Workers to represent 450 graduate students at Brown who served as teaching and research assistants.
 The board noted that graduate students spend most of their energy and hours on their studies, rather than their work. Stating that the National Labor Relations Act was ''designed to cover economic relationships,'' the majority concluded: ''The Board's longstanding rule that it will not assert jurisdiction over relationships that are 'primarily educational' is consistent with these principles.'' 
 In conclusion, the board stated that ''there is a significant risk, even a strong likelihood, that the collective-bargaining process will be detrimental to the educational process.''
 Philip Wheeler, the U.A.W.'s director for New York and New England, derided the labor board's logic.
 ''I understand that they say it would be too disruptive to the great American education system,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ''Once upon a time, they said that unionizing would be too disruptive for American manufacturing. They were wrong then, and they are wrong now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Organized Labor; Graduate Schools and Students

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%) National Labor Relations Board; Brown University; New York University

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



315 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Joblessness Up In New York City

BYLINE: By Lydia Polgreen (NYT); Compiled by George James

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate rose in June by 0.8 percent, to 7.8 percent from 7 percent in May, even as the city experienced relatively strong job growth, according to data released yesterday by the State Department of Labor. 
The city added 3,500 jobs in June, according to the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., who said the rise in the unemployment rate may reflect a surge of people returning to the job market. The private sector grew by 6,100 jobs, but government employment fell by 2,600 jobs. The rest of the state is keeping pace with the nation in job growth, the numbers show, while the city is still lagging slightly. Lydia Polgreen (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); CIVIL SERVICES (87%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%) Labor; Government Employees; Unemployment

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



316 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Deal in Mexico Makes 4 Banks Absorb Losses From Loans

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 15 

 BODY:
Four banks, including the local units of Citigroup and HSBC, have agreed to absorb some losses stemming from the banking crisis of the mid-1990's, ending a dispute with regulators, legislators said Thursday.
 Under the agreement, the banks will absorb about $826 million in bad loans and allow a limited audit of some $600 million in questionable loans, said Senator Fauzi Hamdan and Congressman Manuel Perez Cardenas, both from the ruling National Action Party. 
 In addition, the banks have agreed to open sealed working papers from a 1998 audit. Legislators believe that those papers may reveal additional questionable loans. 
 Press reports estimated that the total loss for the banks could reach $1.5 billion, once loss-sharing provisions and any illegal loans uncovered by the audits are taken into account. The $700 million in bad credits that the banks have agreed to absorb are insider loans, money that the banks lent to board members or to companies controlled by friends. 
 Legislators and the government agency that inherited the bad loans have been pressing the banks to allow an audit. But the banks have resisted and tied up the issue in court. 
 ''Finally, a reasonable, fair and legal attitude prevailed'' among the banks, Mr. Hamdan said. ''It's a fair solution.''
 The four banks involved are Citigroup's Banamex unit; HSBC; Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria's Mexican bank known as BBVA-Bancomer; and a Mexican bank, Banorte. At the time of the banking crisis, all the banks were owned by Mexicans. 
 The four banks sold some $6 billion in bad loans under the bailout plan, an amount that has swelled to about $20 billion with interest. Most of the cost of the bailout was a result of bank failures, and the four banks involved in the auditing dispute have long argued that they were unfairly singled out given that they were among the few left standing.
 Analysts said that while the amount involved was not significant to the banks, the agreement eliminated a source of risk to the banking system. 
 ''We view the agreement as positive for the financial system as a whole,'' wrote Jason Mollin, a Latin America banking analyst for Bear Stearns in New York, in a report Thursday. 
 Gustavo Lopez, senior director for Latin America financial institutions at Fitch Ratings in New York, said, ''The agreement would be beneficial because it would avoid a further escalation of this issue.''
 The agreement ends a politically charged element of the government's $100 billion rescue of Mexico's banks after the peso devaluation in December 1994. As interest rates soared to 100 percent, debtors simply stopped paying their loans, leaving the banks with billions of dollars of bad loans. To capitalize the banks, the government stepped in, buying the bad loans in return for bonds.
 But the bonds, called Fobaproa bonds after the executive agency that issued them, were never backed by Congress, which has had to authorize interest payments with each year's budget. 
 Legislators, along with the government regulator that inherited the bad loans, have been pressing for an audit. The regulator, called the Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings, has held up the exchange of Fobaproa bonds for new bonds that would not require approval from Congress every year.
 Since almost $17 billion of the Fobaproa notes fall due in 2005, the exchange was becoming urgent for the banks, given the possibility that legislators might decide not to approve some or all of the payments.
 The deal unblocks the bond exchange. Instead, interest payments and amortizations on the new bonds will not need yearly congressional approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); CURRENCIES (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); DEVALUATION (60%) Banks and Banking; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (91%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Banamex (Mexican Bank); Hsbc Holdings; Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Sa; Bbva Bancomer; Banorte (Mexican Bank)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BVA (LSE) (91%); BBVA (NYSE) (91%); BBVA (MCE) (91%); BBVA (BMV) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (85%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



317 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Renewed State Efforts Made Against Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15 

 BODY:
The defeat of a federal constitutional amendment to prohibit same-sex marriage is spurring conservative groups to redouble efforts in a dozen states where similar amendments to state constitutions are likely to be on the ballot this year, proponents of the measures say.
 Partisans on both sides have already begun organizing campaigns in many of those states, raising money, preparing advertising scripts and mobilizing get-out-the-vote operations that could increase turnout in several presidential swing states.
 Many political analysts say President Bush is almost certain to benefit from the mobilization of conservatives in those states, particularly in Michigan and Oregon, where amendments seem likely to make the ballot.
 ''It will generate higher turnout among conservative Christians, who would tend to vote for President Bush,'' said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute for Applied Politics at Akron University. 
 ''If the election stays close -- and, boy, it looks really close in Ohio -- then if turnout is increased by three or four points because of this issue, that could make the difference,'' Mr. Green said.
 Supporters of a ban are still collecting signatures in Ohio, but people on both sides expect the measure to appear on the state's ballot. 
 Democrats contend that most voters are more concerned about the economy and Iraq than same-sex marriage. Mr. Bush's support for constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage could also hurt him among moderate swing voters, many Democrats say.
 Many polls show that a large majority of Americans would support an amendment that would allow marriage only between a man and a woman. But a New York Times/CBS News poll in March also found that 56 percent of voters believed that the issue was not important enough to justify changing the Constitution.
 Poll results can vary depending on how questions are asked. Some polls show that support for amendments declines when respondents are told the measures explicitly prohibit marriage between same-sex partners, the Pew Research Center says. 
 Mr. Bush endorsed the federal amendment, saying a traditional definition of marriage should be enshrined in the Constitution to defend against ''activist courts.'' The Senate defeated the amendment on Wednesday. A White House spokesman said the president would also support efforts to amend state constitutions.
 Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has said he supports defining marriage as the union of a man and a woman, but does not think a constitutional amendment is needed. His office did not return calls on Thursday seeking his position on state amendments.
 Legislatures in seven states have already approved amendments that will be put before voters this year, starting with Missouri on Aug. 3 and Louisiana on Sept. 18, according to the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group. Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Utah will follow in November. 
 Supporters of amendments have also collected enough signatures in Arkansas, Michigan, Montana and Oregon to place proposed amendments on ballots this fall. Those signatures are being reviewed, but experts believe most, and probably all, will succeed. 
 In Ohio and North Dakota, signatures are still being collected. Organizers in both states say they are confident they will gather more than enough signatures to get on the ballot in November, an assessment opponents do not dispute. 
 Amendment supporters said that although the federal amendment was soundly defeated in the Senate on Wednesday, the setback would energize conservatives to go to the polls for state amendments. 
 ''As long as Washington is not doing anything to prevent the trend line that is in place now, it will spur more state efforts,'' said Gary Bauer, chairman of the Campaign for Working Families, a political action committee that supports the efforts. 
 But opponents of the amendments said that the arguments used to defeat the federal amendment would also prevail in the states. ''We don't want to look back years from now on something we placed in our Constitution that we come to regret,'' said Rebekah Kassell, spokeswoman for Equality In Oregon, a group fighting the amendment. ''It should remain a timeless and sacred document.''
 In Ohio, an array of religious and conservative groups have sent petitions to more than 100,000 households with notes urging them to gather signatures, said Phil Burress, president of Citizens for Community Values, a group based in Cincinnati that is spearheading the drive. 
 The groups include Focus on the Family, the Family Research Council, the American Family Association and several conservative Christian churches, he said. The groups plan to gather more than 500,000 signatures, though only 323,000 are required, he said.
 Opponents of the Ohio amendment said they hoped to recruit support from Ohio businesses, saying that the measure would discourage highly qualified gay and lesbian employees from coming to Ohio.
 Alan Melamed, campaign manager for Ohioans Protecting Our Constitution, which is fighting the amendment, said it included broad language that could make domestic partner benefits for opposite-sex couples unconstitutional. Many major corporations and several colleges in Ohio offer such benefits to their employees.
 But proponents of the Ohio amendment said it would not prohibit private companies from offering domestic-partner benefits. 
 Missouri, which will vote on its constitutional amendment during an Aug. 3 primary, is being watched as a bellwether for how other states may vote. The Legislature approved the amendment with overwhelming support. But opponents contend that many voters remain open to arguments that it is discriminatory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); COHABITATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); RELIGION (54%) Marriages; Constitutional Amendments; States (US); Homosexuality; Referendums; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Marriages

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) James Dao; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Michigan; Oregon

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



318 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Former Leader Is Still a Power In China's Life

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 14 

 BODY:
With bold front-page headlines and top billing on the main television news show, China's state media announced this week that Jiang Zemin, the country's military chief, had visited the northern city of Shenyang and called on troops there ''to master revolutionary theory.''
 At first glance, the item seemed like just another dutiful recounting of the prosaic meetings and utterances of senior leaders, standard fare for the Communist Party-controlled media. But this report was notable for one fact: Mr. Jiang's visit took place in January 1991.
 The reports shed no light on why the authorities had trumpeted a seemingly unexceptional event 13 years after it happened. But editors and experts say Mr. Jiang, 77, may consider himself as having entered the pantheon of Communist giants, along with Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, entitling him to re-release what he views as his great political moments. 
 More significant, it is the latest indication that Mr. Jiang, who handed the titles of Communist Party chief and president to Hu Jintao in 2002, still holds ultimate power in China and has no immediate plans to give up his remaining position as head of the military. Some members of the party elite had expressed a desire that he do so this fall, when the party convenes its fourth plenum, or national planning session.
 The consequences of Mr. Jiang's prolonged reign are substantial, party officials, editors and political analysts say. Mr. Jiang has retained final say on the most delicate foreign policy issues, as well as some prickly domestic disputes, even though he no longer holds China's top government and party posts. 
 Chinese party officials and Western experts say split leadership has contributed to increased political repression at home and heightened chances of military conflict with Taiwan, while raising the specter of a power struggle down the road.
 ''Divided leadership makes it much harder to pursue compromise positions on sensitive issues, either in domestic or foreign policy,'' said Kenneth Lieberthal, a former Clinton administration China specialist who is now at the University of Michigan. ''Tactically, this makes it more difficult to be either nimble or decisive.''
 Mr. Jiang has stressed the need to accelerate preparations to attack Taiwan in the event the island pursues independence, a stance that may also make him seem indispensable to the military at a crucial juncture, party officials say.
 He recently overruled Mr. Hu's attempts to develop a new framework for China's foreign policy, when he rejected using the phrase ''peaceful rise'' to describe China's emergence as a global power, two people involved in those discussions said. The term had been carefully vetted -- and used repeatedly by Mr. Hu -- before Mr. Jiang voiced his objections.
 It was also Mr. Jiang who decided to detain Jiang Yanyong, the Chinese doctor who earned wide renown for exposing the cover-up of the SARS epidemic last year and calling for a re-evaluation of the 1989 crackdown on democracy protests, people informed about the doctor's detention said. Dr. Jiang, who is not related to Jiang Zemin, has spent nearly 45 days in military custody, where he has been subjected to extended ''study sessions'' to change his political thinking, these people said.
 Mr. Hu and Mr. Jiang have not feuded publicly. Mr. Hu, in fact, has remained studiously deferential, allowing Mr. Jiang to precede him at official events, despite the fact that Mr. Hu nominally outranks him. When both Mr. Hu and Mr. Jiang meet the same visiting dignitary, Mr. Jiang's comments often get more prominent coverage.
 The leadership has tried to persuade people that laws and institutions outweigh any individual. But China's orderly transition to a new leadership in 2002, once promoted by the party as a sign of political maturity, is now viewed as incomplete by many people, including Mr. Jiang. 
 In a meeting with Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, at the Zhongnanhai leadership compound last week, Mr. Jiang volunteered that he was ''handing over more and more power'' to Mr. Hu, according to an American official who attended the meeting. The statement implied that ultimate authority still rested with Mr. Jiang, who would dictate the pace of change.
 The continued prominence of Mr. Jiang may partly account for the relatively tight political environment, including a captive press and reduced scope for debating policy issues, political analysts say. Paradoxically, the atmosphere is more stifling than in the final years of his official rule, perhaps partly because Mr. Hu wants to avoid any liberalization that could lead to social unrest -- and expose him to censure -- before he consolidates power, these analysts said.
 Mr. Jiang steered China through a period of rapid economic growth and stable foreign relations during his long tenure. But party officials say he has now associated himself with the hard-line position of some elements in the army that favors taking decisive steps to stop the drift toward independence in Taiwan.
 Chinese hard-liners, both military and civilian, argue that the recent re-election of Chen Shui-bian as president of Taiwan has confirmed fears that Taiwan will sooner or later seek formal independence, which Beijing has promised to oppose militarily. Bush administration officials say China has recently emphasized using force to restrain Taiwan, even though the Americans believe that it is still possible -- and highly preferable -- to reduce cross-strait tensions through dialogue.
 Liu Yazhou, the deputy political commissar of the Chinese Air Force, wrote an essay circulated on Chinese Web sites in May that discussed preparations for conflict with Taiwan and quoted Mr. Jiang as saying, ''We must fight a war with Taiwan.'' 
 While it remains unknown whether Mr. Hu would steer a more conciliatory course if he had unchallenged authority, Mr. Jiang's stance leaves little space for alternative views, analysts say.
 When Mr. Hu has tried to put his own stamp on Chinese foreign policy, Mr. Jiang has prevented him from doing so.
 Mr. Hu's circle of advisers at the Central Party School, the Communist Party university that Mr. Hu managed before he was elevated to the top rank, spent months preparing a vision statement for China's emergence as a regional and world power.
 They coined the term ''peaceful rise,'' which they said reflected a consensus view that China could break historical precedents and become a great power without using military force to exert influence.
 The idea became a staple of academic conferences and scholarly books. Mr. Hu and Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, both used the phrase repeatedly.
 But in March, around the time of the Taiwan election, pressure from Mr. Jiang and the military prompted Mr. Hu to stop using the term, two people involved in the discussions said. Some scholars have continued to refer to the peaceful rise theory in their studies. 
 Chinese foreign policy experts said the debate signaled the delicacy of proscribing military force as a foreign policy tool while Mr. Jiang stressed the threat of Taiwan independence. But they said it also reflected Mr. Jiang's desire to prevent Mr. Hu from formulating a new doctrine, even if the contents were not especially contentious.
 The way dissent by Dr. Jiang, the SARS whistle-blower, was handled by the leadership has also tended to underline assertions that Mr. Jiang remains the top decision maker, people directly informed about the doctor's case said.
 Dr. Jiang wrote a letter in February that challenged the leadership to apologize for violently suppressing protests around Beijing 15 years ago. As a senior Communist Party official, elite surgeon and a military officer who is thought to have a rank equivalent to lieutenant general or major general in the West, Dr. Jiang's plea was treated as a political crisis.
 The ruling Politburo, over which Mr. Hu presides, discussed Dr. Jiang's case shortly after his letter circulated and took steps to make sure that the doctor did not repeat his public appeal. But it was Mr. Jiang, acting in his capacity as chairman of the Central Military Commission, who decided to detain Dr. Jiang on June 1 and subject him to political indoctrination, according to the people informed about the case.
 It is unclear when Dr. Jiang will be released or whether he will be charged with a crime, though the latter action seems unlikely. Some party officials say they regard the detention of Dr. Jiang, considered a hero by many Chinese, as a mistake.
 ''Jiang created this problem,'' one person connected to the case said, referring to the military chief. ''Jiang will have to find a way out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hu Jintao, left, and Jiang Zemin, former president and current military chief, in Beijing in March. Mr. Jiang apparently has no intention of giving up his position, as some party leaders have urged. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%) Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%) Joseph Kahn; Jiang Zemin; Hu Jintao

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); NORTHEAST CHINA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Taiwan; China; China

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



319 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: HOSTAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Philippines Viewed as Being Forced to Yield on Hostage

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA, July 15 

 BODY:
President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo had no choice but to accede to the demands of Iraqi insurgents who abducted a Philippine truck driver last week and threatened to kill him unless the country withdrew its troops by July 20, analysts and critics said Thursday.
 The risk of disappointing Washington, her most important ally, was easily outweighed by the potential political retaliation that could have imperiled Mrs. Arroyo's political and economic agenda for the next six years, they said. 
 The hostage, Angelo dela Cruz, 46, a father of eight, appeared Thursday night on Al Jazeera, the satellite network, looking and sounding upbeat. Al Jazeera quoted him as saying that he would return home soon, although the militants supposedly told the network that Mr. dela Cruz would not be released until the last Filipino soldier was out. Mr. dela Cruz thanked the Philippine government for agreeing to the withdrawal, which started Wednesday with the departure of 8 of the 51 Filipino police officers and soldiers in Iraq.
 But Mrs. Arroyo's decision ''was very serious and damaging'' to Manila's relationship with Washington, a United States diplomat stationed here said. He did not elaborate, except to add that Washington had not expected such a move from Mrs. Arroyo, who is widely considered its strongest supporter in Southeast Asia and whose country has received by far the most military aid of any country in the region.
 The United States ambassador to Manila, Francis Ricciardone, said Wednesday that America continued to support the Philippines. ''We are allies,'' he told reporters. ''We are here for you.'' 
 But Edgardo E. Dagdag, a national security expert at the Asian Center of the University of the Philippines, said the pullout ''will raise a lot of questions as to how dependable the Philippines is as an ally in the fight against terrorism.'' The Philippines, he said, needs the United States in its own fight against terrorism. ''So if we are vacillating now, I doubt if we can get America's full support,'' Mr. Dagdag said.
 But Mrs. Arroyo's options were limited, said Teodoro Casino, a congressman who is also a leader of the country's largest leftist group, the New Patriotic Alliance. ''The only logical explanation for this change in policy and her willingness to risk disappointing her allies is to tame the protests,'' he said.
 Moreover, Mr. Casino said, there are lingering suspicions of fraud in the vote for president in May. ''Mrs. Arroyo still has not convinced a significant section of the population that she won fair and square in the last election. She does not need this kind of controversy so early in her term.''
 He said she wanted to institute changes -- among them higher taxes, cuts in government spending and increases in electricity, fuel and transportation costs -- that were sure to prove unpopular. 
 The crisis could also alienate the millions of overseas Filipino workers whose dollar remittances had been propping up the economy for decades but who contended that the government had not done enough to protect them, said Maita Santiago, secretary-general of Migrante, a group of Filipino migrant workers.''She seems to think that it would be far easier to explain to the U.S. her action on the hostage situation than to appease an angry public in case Angelo dela Cruz dies,'' Mr. Casino said. ''If Mr. dela Cruz is released, she will definitely make it up to the U.S.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mely Reyes, a cousin of Angelo dela Cruz, a Filipino held hostage by Iraqi insurgents, and her granddaughter watched him on a news program yesterday from his home province, Pampanga, and awaited word of his fate. (Photo by Dennis M. Sabangan/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (55%) Hostages; Kidnapping; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (91%) Carlos H Conde; Gloria (Pres) Macapagal Arroyo

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%) PHILIPPINES (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Iraq; Philippines ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



320 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Not-So-Big Tent

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Just as George W. Bush is on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a net loss of jobs, he is now the first president since Hoover to fail to meet with the N.A.A.C.P. during his entire term in office.
 Mr. Bush and the leadership of the nation's oldest and largest civil rights organization get along about as well as the Hatfields and the McCoys. The president was invited to the group's convention in Philadelphia this week, but he declined. 
 That Mr. Bush thumbed his nose at N.A.A.C.P. officials is not the significant part of this story. The Julian Bonds and Kweisi Mfumes of the world can take care of themselves at least as well as Mr. Bush in the legalized gang fight called politics.
 What is troubling is Mr. Bush's relationship with black Americans in general. He's very good at using blacks as political props. And the props are too often part of an exceedingly cynical production.
 Four years ago, on the first night of the Republican convention, a parade of blacks was hauled before the television cameras (and the nearly all-white audience in the convention hall) to sing, to dance, to preach and to praise a party that has been relentlessly hostile to the interests of blacks for half a century.
 I wrote at the time that ''you couldn't tell whether you were at the Republican National Convention or the Motown Review.''
 That exercise in modern-day minstrelsy was supposed to show that Mr. Bush was a new kind of Republican, a big-tent guy who would welcome a more diverse crowd into the G.O.P. That was fiction. It wasn't long before black voters would find themselves mugged in Florida, and soon after that Mr. Bush was steering the presidency into a hard-right turn.
 Among the most important props of that 2000 campaign were black children. Mr. Bush could be seen hugging them at endless photo-ops. He said a Bush administration would do great things for them. He promised to transform public education in America. He hijacked the trademarked slogan of the Children's Defense Fund, ''Leave No Child Behind,'' and refashioned it for his own purposes. He pasted the new version, ''No Child Left Behind,'' onto one of the signature initiatives of his presidency, a supposedly historic education reform act.
 The only problem is that, to date, the act has been underfunded by $26 billion. A lot of those kids the president hugged have been left behind.
 And why not? They can't do much for him. Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' captured a telling presidential witticism. Mr. Bush, appearing before a well-heeled gathering in New York, says: ''This is an impressive crowd: the haves, and the have-mores. Some people call you the elite. I call you my base.''
 It wasn't really his base. But the comment spoke volumes.
 Mr. Bush said he was a different kind of Republican, but what black voters see are tax cuts for the very wealthy and underfunded public schools. What they see is an economy that sizzles for the haves and the have-mores, but a harrowing employment crisis for struggling blacks, especially black men. (When the Community Service Society looked at the proportion of the working-age population with jobs in New York City it found that nearly half of all black men between the ages of 16 and 64 were not working last year. That's a Depression-era statistic.)
 In Florida, where the president's brother is governor, and Texas, where the president once was the governor, state officials have been pulling the plug on health coverage for low-income children. The president could use his considerable clout to put a stop to that sort of thing, but he hasn't.
 And now we know that Florida was gearing up for a reprise of the election shenanigans of 2000. It took a court order to get the state to release a list of 48,000 suspected felons that was to be used to purge people from the voting rolls. It turned out that the list contained thousands of names of black people, who tend to vote Democratic, and hardly any names of Hispanics, who in Florida tend to vote Republican.
 Once their ''mistake'' was caught, the officials scrapped the list.
 Mr. Bush plans to address the Urban League convention in Detroit next week. That would be an excellent time for him to explain to an understandably skeptical audience why he campaigned one way -- as a big-tent compassionate conservative -- and governed another. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (85%); POLITICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (65%); EDUCATION LAW (65%); CHILD WELFARE (61%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (60%); TRADEMARK LAW (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (56%); GANGS (54%) Blacks; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2000; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (84%) National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People; Urban League

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



321 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Around the World, Markets Are the Dullest in Years. Is That Good News?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
MAY you live in boring times. For those familiar with the old Chinese curse about living in interesting times, boring may sound like a blessing, and it may well become one for investors. But it is flustering money managers this year. 
 It is not that they are losing money, although some are. It is just that few seem to be making much money. It has been more than a decade since stock markets have traded in such a narrow range for the first half of a year. 
 One hedge fund manager complains that nothing is working this year -- for him or his competitors. It is a bit like what they say about New England weather: if you don't like the trend, wait five minutes and it will change.
 The Standard & Poor's 500 has gone nowhere. It is down about half a percent since the end of 2003, with the year's high, of 1,163.23 on March 5, only 8.1 percent higher than the low of 1,076.32, reached May 12. The range is the smallest for the start of a year since 1993. 
 And the United States is far from alone. In France, the first six months saw a range of 9.6 percent in the CAC 40, the smallest swing since that index was reconstituted in 1987. In Germany, the year got off to the most boring start since 1990 for the DAX index, with a range of 13.1 percent. In Britain, the FTSE All Shares index has shown a range of 6.5 percent, the smallest since 1982.
 In Japan, long the leader in stock market volatility, the Nikkei 225 is up 6.9 percent this year, the best of any major market. The range of 18.4 percent is larger than in other markets but is Japan's smallest since 1996.
 Perhaps dull markets are correlated with discontent with politicians. The economic news has generally been good around the world, but this has not been a year of joy for political parties in power. The Spanish government was voted out of office. The European parliament elections saw the governing parties rebuffed in nearly every country. In Japan, the upper house elections were a setback for the ruling party. The approval ratings for President Bush have declined. 
 Dull markets could reflect an uncertainty over the state of the world that has frustrated investors and voters.
 Going back to 1928, when the S.&P. 500 began, only two previous presidential election years produced an index that had as listless a first six months as in 2004, and in each case the news was bad for the incumbent party. In 1952, the range was 8.1 percent, and the Democrats were swept out of office. In 1992, the range was 7.3 percent, and President Bush failed to win re-election.
 The probable explanation this year is that the good economic news was foreseen by the markets, leading to the market gains that began in the fall of 2002 and petered out this year. Higher interest rates, or fear of them, often act as a sedative on markets, causing them to slow down until more evidence appears to show how high the rates will go and what economic effect they will have. Investors may be waiting for that evidence, as they did in 1994. The end of rising rates that year was followed by a very good 1995.
 In most cases, the doubts shown by dull markets have been resolved with good news. Markets in the United States, France, Germany and Britain have been more likely to show good gains after boring first halves than after exciting beginnings to the year. (In Japan, where bad economic news has been the rule rather than the exception for the last 14 years, the opposite pattern has prevailed.)
 Since 1971 in the United States, there have been 14 years before this one when the S.&P. range was under 15 percent. Prices rose in the second half of 12 of those years, for an average gain of 5.6 percent. But if the early range was greater, the market was more likely to go down than up. The average move was a gain of just 0.4 percent.
 Boring, it appears, can be a harbinger of good times.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows the range of the S. & P. 500 in the first half of the year, since 1992. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); POLITICS (85%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004



322 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Boston Scientific Widens Recall of Some of Its Stents
Shares of Boston Scientific plunged nearly 8 percent after the company said that it was voluntarily widening the recall of two of the devices it makes to treat heart disease. The recall involves about 85,000 of the drug-coated devices that the company introduced earlier this year and another 11,000 of the devices it made without the special drug coating.
 While Boston Scientific is not recalling all of the devices, called stents, it said that it decided to recall some of them because of a problem that can occur when a doctor first inserts the device into a patient. The recall comes after reports of three deaths and 43 injuries, the company said. [Page C2.]

Growth in China Is Slowing
China's economy grew at a weaker-than-expected 9.6 percent pace in the second quarter, suggesting that Beijing may be achieving a soft landing for the economy. [C2.]

A Modest Rise in Consumer Prices
The Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent in June -- half the 0.6 percent jump posted for May, but slightly ahead of forecasts by economists for a rise of 0.2 percent. The core index, which excludes food and energy costs, edged up a smaller-than-expected 0.1 percent. [C4.]

Freescale Offers 121 Million Shares
Shares of Freescale Semiconductor, a spinoff of Motorola, closed at $14.02. The initial public offering of 121.6 million shares that raised nearly $1.6 billion was priced at $13 a share, the low end of its estimated range. [C14.]

Halliburton Plan Approved
DII Industries and Kellogg Brown & Root, units of Halliburton that sought bankruptcy protection in December, won court approval for a restructuring plan that includes a $4.2 billion settlement of asbestos claims. [C4.]

Profits Fall 25% at Electrolux
Electrolux posted a 25 percent decline in second-quarter profit largely because of rising steel prices and a decline in sales of floor-care products in the United States. [C2.]

Technology Stocks Decline
Technology and small-cap stocks fell as investors were concerned about a possible slump in profits in the second half of the year. The Nasdaq composite index fell 29.56 points, to 1,883.15. The Nasdaq dipped 3.3 percent for the week, and is down 6 percent so far in 2004. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 23.38 points, to 10,139.78, and declined 0.7 percent for the week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 5.30 points, to 1,101.39, and declined 1 percent for the week. [C4.]

Profits Increase at KeyCorp
KeyCorp reported a 6 percent increase in second-quarter earnings, which it attributed to a gain in commercial loan business and in interest from investment banking services. [C4.]

Delphi Issues an Earnings Warning
The automotive parts supplier Delphi warned that it would report a net loss in the third quarter because of production cuts by Detroit automakers. [C14.]

Judge Approves Boeing Settlement
Judge Marsha J. Pechman of United States District Court in Seattle gave preliminary approval to a settlement in a class-action lawsuit brought against Boeing by women employees contending they were mistreated based on their gender. [C4.]

Bayer to Spin Off Chemicals Unit
Bayer said that it planned to spin off its chemicals division, Lanxess, to shareholders rather than hold an initial public offering. The sale of Lanxess, which makes industrial chemicals and polymers, will allow Bayer to focus on pharmaceuticals and consumer health products. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,139.78 down 23.38Nasdaq composite -- 1,883.15 down 29.5610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.35% down 0.13The euro -- $1.2458 up 0.0114The dollar -- 108.68 yen down 1.90Graph tracks the share price of Boston Scientific since last Friday.Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite index since Jan. 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); HEART DISEASE (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); ASBESTOS (62%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (90%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); KBR INC (54%); KEYCORP (50%)

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (90%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); KBR (NYSE) (54%); KEY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (90%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (54%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (54%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (54%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



323 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Faltering Art Fair Chills Chicago

BYLINE: By DAVID BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 16 

 BODY:
The Chicago art establishment, from museums to galleries to artists, still seems shaken by what it perceived to be the failure this spring of its internationally known contemporary art fair.
 Critics thought it the weakest in size and in quality of art in its 25-year existence, and this follows a trend in recent years in which more and more of the world's serious collectors, curators and dealers have been skipping the fair, Art Chicago.
 For a city that sometimes refers to itself as a ''museum without walls'' because of its vaunted architectural tradition and the Picassos, Calders, Dubuffets and Oldenburgs arrayed throughout its business district, this has been a blow not only to its economy but also to its ego.
 The focus of the city's hope to recapture the attention of the international art world is the glittering new Millennium Park, a 24-and-a-half-acre arts hamlet on the city's lakefront that opened on Friday. It included three new significant examples of public art: a swirling steel music pavilion by Frank Gehry; a 110-ton jellybean-shaped sculpture by the British artist Anish Kapoor; and a giant, interactive fountain designed by the Spanish artist Jaume Plensa. 
 Since 1980 and throughout most of the 1990's, much of the art world eagerly descended on Chicago every May for its art exposition on the Navy Pier, an American version of the celebrated contemporary art fair in Basel, Switzerland. (This year's three-day event ended on May 10.) But now Art Chicago is less popular than fairs in New York, London, Paris and, more recently, South Beach for the chic Art Basel Miami.
 Robert Landau, president of Landau Fine Art in Montreal, was a regular exhibitor at Art Chicago but dropped out of the exposition after the 2002 show. ''It's a sad story,'' he said. ''We stuck it out for quite a long time. Unfortunately over the years, the fair has dwindled in importance. The exhibitor mix weakened, and the customer base weakened with the absence of the good galleries.'' Mr. Landau said the fair no longer attracted the art-savvy clientele for the $100 million inventory of modern masters paintings that he put on display. 
 ''The last year we were there we had more customers walking in off Navy Pier who really weren't there to see the art show. We had so many people coming in making remarks like, 'Are any of these paintings real?' '' 
 George Adams, a gallery owner on West 57th Street in New York, and an exhibitor at the Chicago fair since its inception, also skipped it the past couple of years. ''I noticed other galleries were dropping out,'' he said. ''The fair was looking a little bit stale. The extras starting disappearing.'' Mr. Adams said Thomas Blackman, the organizer of Art Chicago, had never updated or improved his show, even as more rival fairs emerged onto the scene, particularly, Art Basel Miami Beach, which had its debut in December 2002. 
 ''Tom's got to hear the warning signs,'' Mr. Adams said, referring to the initial buzz about Art Basel Miami. ''This fair is going to blow him out of the water if he's not careful. But he didn't do anything. He didn't change the fair, he didn't up the ante, he didn't strengthen his organization, he didn't tighten it up. So sure enough, Basel Miami opens and suddenly his fair looks really sleepy.'' 
 Mr. Blackman, who has produced Art Chicago since 1993, conceded that the number of show exhibitors and visitors had steadily declined in recent years. By his count, there were 221 dealers and about 27,000 attendees at the 2000 exposition; this year's show drew 158 dealers and fewer than 22,000 people. ''The show has lost some of its muscle, there's no doubt about that,'' Mr. Blackman admitted. But he played down talk of the fair's demise, suggesting that a comeback is imminent.
 Mr. Blackman, who also produces the San Francisco International Art Exhibition, announced plans last month to change next year's Art Chicago from its traditional May date to July 14-18, citing timing conflicts with the spring art auctions in New York. He also said he would no longer hold the show at Navy Pier, but rather move it to a temporary exhibition space, a 125,000-square-foot tent, in downtown Chicago. 
 ''The whole international art calendar has changed so much since we first started in the 80's,'' Mr. Blackman said. ''We used to be sandwiched in between the auctions in New York; now we're smack-dab in the middle of them. July is a time that is much more open. I think it's also a time that will allow us to take advantage of the benefits of being in Chicago. We have some of our larger museum shows that we might be able to tag on to.'')
 The decline of Art Chicago has become a matter of concern to those involved with the visual arts here, many of whom say they feel that the weakened fair may be emblematic of the vibrancy of the city's art scene. 
 ''If you take the art expo as a litmus test, then, yes, there has been some slippage,'' said Ed Paschke, a Chicago artist. ''The expo has always been viewed as a measuring stick for the city.'' 
 Without a robust art fair to bring to Chicago the art world's tastemakers and art buyers, there are fears about commercial viability. 
 ''The art fair has been the engine behind the healthiness of the Chicago gallery scene for 25 years,'' said Thomas McCormick, a Chicago-based art dealer. ''It's a big chunk of money that I come to rely on come May.'' 
 Rhona Hoffman, another Chicago gallery owner, agreed. ''There's a big concern, absolutely,'' she said. ''You've got the Armory in New York, Art Basel in Miami and the Frieze fair in London: three newer art fairs, all very international, all very seductive and all taking a lot of people out of Chicago. It remains a very hard blow.'' 
 ''Everyone is scratching their brains to think of a way to bring it back and to make Chicago great again for that purpose,'' Ms. Hoffman said. 
 Opinions vary sharply on Mr. Blackman's new plans for the fair. Some people in the arts are cautiously optimistic; others feel the changes might be too little, too late.
 ''I hate to say it, but I'm not sure he's the one that can turn it around,'' said Richard Gray, a leading Chicago art dealer for 40 years and the former president of the Art Dealers Association of America. ''After all, he's the one that's been running the fair all the time that it's been deteriorating. It's going to be a very, very tough road.'' 
 A spokesman for the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority, the municipal corporation that manages Navy Pier, said it had already received numerous queries from prospective operators for a new fair on the pier, though he declined to name them. 
 ''There are efforts now to do something about the fair -- to work with Tom, work with somebody else -- to get things back on track,'' Mr. Gray said. 
 Mr. McCormick, the dealer, said: 'We're like the wife at home, and Basel Miami is the new, sexy secretary at the office. The day's going to come when it is no longer the sexy, new thing, either.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chicago is placing its hopes on buildings like Frank Gehry's music pavilion in the lakefront Millennium Park. (Photo by Katrinia Wittkamp for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 Lure for art lovers? The Millennium Park Monument in Wrigley Square. (Photo by Katrina Wittkamp for The New York Times)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (89%); TRADE SHOWS (86%); ART DEALERS (77%); TRENDS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MILLENNIUM (68%) Art; Trade Shows and Fairs; Economic Conditions and Trends; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Public Art; Art Chicago (Festival)

PERSON: David Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (55%); FRANCE (53%) Chicago (Ill); Millennium Park (Chicago)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



324 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Report Notes Improved Well-Being of U.S. Youth

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
Children in the United States were less likely in 2002 to commit a violent crime or be a victim of one than in 2001, but more of them were living in poverty, according to the government's broadest measure of children's well-being.
 A report released Friday by the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics painted a mostly upbeat picture of children's lives. The birth rate for teenage mothers, which has declined steadily since 1991, hit a record low in 2002. And the death rate went down for young people. 
 But children were more likely to be overweight than they were before, and child poverty inched up after several years of decline, according to the report, which drew together findings from many federal agencies.
 The reduction in teenage births is one gain that should not be overlooked, said Duane Alexander, director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development at the National Institutes of Health.
 Teenagers who give birth are less likely to finish high school than other girls their age, he said. Also, infants born to teenage mothers are more likely to be of low birth weight, increasing their chances of blindness, deafness, mental retardation, mental illness and cerebral palsy.
 Young people were less likely to be victimized in a serious violent crime -- murder, rape, robbery or aggravated assault -- or to commit one. In 2002, those ages 12 to 17 were victims of a violent crime at a rate of 11 per 1,000, down from 15 per 1,000 a year earlier. The rate of youths ages 12 to 17 committing violent crimes was 11 per 1,000 in 2002, compared with 19 per 1,000 in 2001.
 The percentage of overweight children increased, reaching 16 percent from 1999 to 2000, up from 11 percent in the early 1990's and 6 percent in the late 1970's.
 The number of children living in poverty also grew, hitting 11.6 million in 2002, up from 11.2 million a year earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); VIOLENT CRIME (91%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (79%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (79%); MURDER (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); ROBBERY (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); CEREBRAL PALSY (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); MENTAL RETARDATION (68%); DEAFNESS (51%) Crime and Criminals; Children and Youth; United States Economy; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (56%) Federal Interagency Forum On Child and Family Statistics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



325 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Picks Commerce Chief

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., July 16 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey chose the director of the New Jersey Lottery as his new commerce secretary on Friday, two days after the previous secretary resigned amid questions about his conduct in office. 
 Virginia Bauer, who headed the lottery for less than a year, succeeds William Watley as leader of the Commerce and Economic Growth Commission, which promotes business in the state.
 ''She will be an advocate and ensure that our administration is responsive to the business community,'' Mr. McGreevey said. 
 The commission had a budget of about $16 million last year and 109 employees. The commerce secretary earned about $137,000 last year.
 Ms. Bauer, who has a background in public relations and finance, was picked to head the lottery after her work as an advocate for the survivors of victims of the 9/11 terror attacks brought her to the governor's attention. Ms. Bauer's husband was killed at the World Trade Center.
 Mr. Watley resigned Wednesday after conflict-of-interest questions were raised over his role in a construction loan for his church in Newark.
 The loan came under scrutiny after state investigators raided the offices of Lesly Devereaux, Mr. Watley's former chief of staff, in a separate inquiry. Ms. Devereaux also served as the commission's senior vice president before resigning earlier this month.
 The State Division of Criminal Justice is investigating Mr. Watley's decision to award a no-bid consulting contract to Ms. Devereaux's sister. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); GOVERNORS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Virginia S Bauer; William Watley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



326 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Moderate Inflation in June May Restrain Rate Increases

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
The pace of consumer price increases moderated in June, the government said on Friday, bolstering financial market hopes that the Federal Reserve will stick with a policy of gradual interest rate increases.
 The Consumer Price Index, the most widely used gauge of inflation, rose 0.3 percent -- half the 0.6 percent jump posted for May, when gasoline prices were soaring, but slightly ahead of forecasts by Wall Street economists for a rise of 0.2 percent.
 The core index, which strips out volatile food and energy costs, edged up a smaller-than-expected 0.1 percent in June after a 0.2 percent May increase. In the last 12 months, core inflation has risen 1.9 percent. Energy costs rose 2.6 percent after an even larger 4.6 percent surge in May. 
 Susan Bies, a Federal Reserve Board governor, speaking to reporters in Chicago, expressed satisfaction at the report and said some recent data showing less vigorous expansion in June was not worrisome. ''We're taking a breather, but the fact is, we're still growing,'' she said.
 In another report, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index rose slightly, to 96.0 in July from a final reading of 95.6 for June. Analysts said the modest rise was a comforting indicator that consumers were not growing dispirited as some had speculated might be happening after retail sales weakened in June.
 Energy costs remained decisive. The Labor Department, which calculates the index, said energy accounted for about two-thirds of the rise in the broad index. Gasoline, natural gas, fuel oil and electricity costs all were higher than in May.
 Richard Yamarone, an economist at the Argus Research Corporation in New York, said some of the price pressures were ''cost push,'' from commodities like oil and lumber, rather than harder-to-control ''demand pull'' increases that generally reflect rising wage costs.
 ''What that is saying, and the Fed itself is saying, is that this is transitory, cost-push inflation that is commodity-specific and those types of increases have historically been temporary or short-lived,'' he said. 
 Similarly, Ken Mayland, an economist at ClearView Economics in Pepper Pike, Ohio, said that it seemed that some price increases that were so evident in April and May were already easing.
 ''If we think ahead a little bit, gasoline prices have come down, so we can anticipate a sizable negative in the July headline C.P.I.,'' Mr. Mayland added. ''We're not talking zero inflation here, so there is not a case for the Fed to stand pat and not do anything. But the Fed is going to move in the measured pace of 25-basis-point increases.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Graph tracks the percent change, month to month, in consumer prices from July 2003-June 2004.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +3.3New YorkMONTH: +0.8YEAR: +4.6Los AngelesMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +4.0ChicagoMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +2.7Boston* (May)MONTH: Unch.YEAR: +3.2Dallas* (May)MONTH: +0.8YEAR: +1.2Detroit*MONTH: +0.6YEAR: +1.6Houston*MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +4.2Philadelphia*MONTH: +1.6YEAR: +4.4San Francisco*MONTH: +0.4YEAR: +1.4Washington* (May)MONTH: +0.7YEAR: +2.8*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for June, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETAIL SALES (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



327 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Chess's Lost Soul, Bobby Fischer, Is Held in Tokyo

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER and TODD ZAUN; Bruce Weber reported from Washington for this article and Todd Zaun from Tokyo. Dylan McClain contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
After two decades of living in secrecy, semi-isolation and increasingly distressed obscurity, Bobby Fischer, the former world chess champion, was arrested Friday by Japanese immigration authorities in Tokyo and accused of trying to leave the country without a valid passport. 
 An American Embassy official in Tokyo confirmed that Mr. Fischer was detained at Narita Airport. Japanese news reports said Mr. Fischer, 61, probably would be deported to the United States, where he faces charges for violating economic sanctions against the former Yugoslavia by playing an exhibition match there in 1992. But Mr. Fischer's immediate future remains unclear. 
 Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said it was not yet determined whether the United States would ask that Mr. Fischer be turned over to the American authorities. He said only that Mr. Fischer, who has expressed virulently anti-American views since the warrant was issued for his arrest on Dec. 15, 1992, had been visited by an American consular officer. 
 ''Questions about extradition or charges would have to be answered by the Department of Justice and the appropriate courts,'' Mr. Boucher said. The Justice Department had no comment, but an official said it was looking at the case to determine its legal options, including possible extradition. The official added that it was too soon to predict how the case might turn out. The detention of Mr. Fischer came the day before another longtime American fugitive -- Charles Jenkins, 64, who is accused of deserting the Army in 1965, when he entered North Korea -- was scheduled to arrive in Japan, and who is also expected to be the subject of an American extradition request. 
 It was unclear why Mr. Fischer was in Japan, though it is possible he was living there. In a radio interview broadcast from Manila in June 2003, he told the host that he was in Japan at the time. And chess publications that have long been obsessed with tracking the movements of the mysterious former champion have reported that Mr. Fischer travels frequently between Tokyo and Manila. 
 The episode is just the latest wrinkle in the strange international saga of Mr. Fischer -- indisputably the greatest American chess player in history and some say the greatest ever in the world -- whose life has spiraled weirdly and precipitously downward since his greatest glory. 
 Born in Chicago but reared in Brooklyn, he first drew attention as an adolescent prodigy, able to hold his own with the strongest American players at the Marshall and Manhattan Chess Clubs in Manhattan. A national champion at 14 and a grandmaster at 15, he became an international celebrity in 1972 when, at the height of the cold war, he unseated the Russian world champion, Boris Spassky, in a match in Reykjavik, Iceland. That, however, was to be the last of Mr. Fischer's triumphs. A petulant, demanding man with a cruel unpredictable streak, by the time he became world champion he was already known for his outlandishly self-aggrandizing behavior. It was part of what made him a legend.
 In ''Searching for Bobby Fischer,'' the 1988 book about the chess world that is partly about Mr. Fischer's status as an icon, the author, Fred Waitzkin, summed up Mr. Fischer's behavior in Reykjavik this way: ''He drove the organizers of the tournament to despair. He argued about the choice of chess table, about his hotel room, about the noise in the auditorium, about the proximity of the audience to the players and about the lighting. He demanded that the organizers lend him a Mercedes with an automatic transmission and arrange for the private use of a swimming pool. He came late to each game and kept threatening to pull out of the match if his demands weren't met.''
 It was a harsh eccentricity that soon grew self-destructive. Mr. Fischer's sanity seemed to frazzle in the limelight, and he sank into a contrary isolation that seems to characterize him to this day.
 After the Spassky match, he refused offers to play chess for titanic sums of money, and he lost his title after three years because he refused to defend it against Anatoly Karpov of the Soviet Union. His time was evidently consumed by lawsuits, one brought against him by Chester Fox, who had held the film rights to the Spassky match, but which became worthless because Mr. Fischer had refused to play before the cameras, which he said he could hear whirring. Mr. Fischer unsuccessfully sued a biographer, Brad Darrach, and the Time-Life Corporation, for invasion of privacy. Another suit, against a student group that he claimed published, without permission, remarks he made about his affiliation with a fringe church, also failed and reportedly left him bankrupt.
 A virulent anti-Semite in spite of his own Jewish ancestry (his mother was a Jew), he has claimed that his belongings were stolen by a Jewish conspiracy from a warehouse in Southern California, where he lived during the 1980's. The federal indictment against him after the match in Yugoslavia seemed to ignite an equally virulent anti-American fire in him. Over the past five years, his occasional rants to radio stations in Iceland and Hungary, as well as the Philippines, have been full of hate against Jews and the United States.
 On Sept. 11, 2001, he told a radio talk-show host in Baguio, the Philippines, that the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were ''wonderful news,'' adding he was wishing for a scenario ''where the country will be taken over by the military, they'll close down all the synagogues, arrest all the Jews and secure hundreds of thousands of Jewish ringleaders.'' 
 Mr. Fischer lived for a time in Pasadena, Calif., and it has been reported that from 1975 to 1992, he lived in cheap rooms around Los Angeles. Over the past decade, however, he is known to have lived in Budapest, and reportedly has also lived in the Philippines and Switzerland. 
 For two decades, Mr. Fischer was a specter that haunted the chess world; its greatest genius had vanished with almost no trace. The few people he kept in touch with were under threat that he would never speak to them again if they discussed him -- which was why it was colossal news in 1992 when he was lured out of hiding for a rematch against Mr. Spassky in Yugoslavia. 
 Just before the match, however, the United Nations imposed sanctions against Yugoslavia for supporting Serbian aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States banned its citizens from doing business there. Mr. Fischer ignored a formal warning from the government against playing the match, and at a news conference spat on the letter. He won the match, collecting $3.3 million, and has been in exile from the United States ever since.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bobby Fischer in 1992, before his match against Boris Spassky. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOARD GAMES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); COLD WAR (72%) Chess; Passports; Deportation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Chess

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%)

PERSON: Bruce Weber; Todd Zaun; Bobby Fischer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); ICELAND (92%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Japan; Tokyo (Japan); Serbia and Montenegro

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



328 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Its Main Employer Leaving, Macon Tries to Diversify

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

DATELINE: MACON, Ga., July 13 

 BODY:
Many things are made in Macon. Plastic buckets. Diapers. Ceiling tiles. Keebler biscuits. Beer cartons. Air conditioners. Airplane parts. Peppermint candy. Zippers. Geico employees answer phones here. The Kohl's department store chain is building a distribution center.
 Despite this diversification, for years the top blue-collar jobs here have come from a vestige of the South's traditional cotton and tobacco economy: the Brown & Williamson cigarette plant. At its peak in 1997, the plant made 130 billion cigarettes a year and employed 3,000 people. The average wage is $26 an hour. Now, the plant is closing, and layoffs will begin on Aug. 13. 
 Across Georgia, manufacturing jobs have been vanishing, forcing towns to seek ever more creative means of self-preservation, and Macon, with 100,000 residents, is a prime example. Even before Brown & Williamson announced last October that it would merge with R.J. Reynolds and move to Winston-Salem, N.C., the city had taken steps toward developing its tourist attractions and was wooing existing companies to expand their operations. Macon had embarked on a downtown revitalization project that will include loft apartments and a new building for the Tubman African American Museum. The mayor had dreamed of turning the old rail terminal into a ''multimodal transportation center.'' It has done what it could to avoid being a one-company town.
 Still, the plant closing means the loss of Bibb County's biggest payroll, a company whose water bill alone is $1 million a year. Its employees, now numbering about 2,000, made the largest annual contribution in the South to the N.A.A.C.P., plant officials say, and the largest annual gift to the United Way of Central Georgia. Brown & Williamson was a major sponsor of the Macon Cherry Festival and the city's cultural scene.
 ''When you suffer a loss like this the tendency is to stick your head in the sand and consider it gone with the wind, so to speak,'' said Michael Thurmond, the state labor commissioner, who has seen the number of manufacturing jobs in the state drop to 450,800 from 530,000 in 2000. ''It's the private and political leadership that has a lot to do with how communities bounce back.''
 Studies have shown that the ripple effect from the closing will result in a loss of 9,000 to 14,000 jobs in the region, Mr. Thurmond said. It will have a significant impact on local wages, which now average $15.30 an hour, almost $2 less than the statewide average even with Brown & Williamson factored in.
 But Macon has tried to put the best face on the situation. It hired a consulting firm to devise an economic development strategy. ''While this is significant, it's not catastrophic,'' said Chip Cherry, the president of the Macon Chamber of Commerce. 
 Mr. Cherry said more than 300 of the plant employees would qualify for full retirement, and he pointed out that the others would be eligible for two years of unemployment compensation and federal tuition assistance. The city expects existing employers to grow. And, based on the consultants' advice, the city is trying to capitalize on its two Interstate highways by enticing distribution operations like Kohl's.
 While the public image of Big Tobacco has been battered for years, in Macon Brown & Williamson, the United States cigarette unit of British American Tobacco, has been a prized corporate citizen, spending money on company picnics, Christmas hams and civic giving. Tommy Olmstead, a former mayor and state legislator who is now the chairman of the Bibb County Commission, said he took down the no-smoking signs in City Hall as a goodwill gesture -- even though, he said, his wife died of lung cancer.
 Even in its leave-taking, the company has been generous, employees, union workers and city officials say. It has offered early retirement and six-month severance packages, and has begun making job offers in Winston-Salem to some workers.
 But the rancorless goodbye only seems to emphasize what the city will miss. ''Brown & Williamson has been part of the fabric of this community for a very long time,'' Mr. Cherry said.
 The salaries have created a robust tier of middle-class workers in Macon. ''These are people with nice homes with large mortgages and large automobiles,'' Mr. Olmstead said. ''They're well trained to get jobs, but not a job making what they were making.'' Many have been employed at the plant for so long they have never had to write a resume.
 At 44, Earnestine High has worked in manufacturing her whole adult life, first at a sewing plant in Forsyth, Ga., then moving to Brown & Williamson in 1997. When she came to Macon for that job, she tripled her salary and bought a house twice as big as the one she previously lived in. ''The factory had been here for more than 20 years,'' Ms. High said. ''All I could hear, we never had a layoff, so I felt kind of secure there.''
 But in an early round of layoffs in December, she was let go as one of the last hired. Still living on a severance package she called generous, she is not sure what her future holds. She might move to Winston-Salem, if she is offered one of the 600 or more jobs the new company, Reynolds American, says it will have for former Brown & Williamson workers. Or, she said, she might go back to school to become a nurse. Macon's medical center serves as the level-one trauma center for Central Georgia.
 Randy Crawford, 49, said he, too, was considering a new career, as a private lobbyist. He worked as a union lobbyist while at Brown & Williamson, where two of his six brothers also worked. ''I've gotten to go places I would have never been, meet top people who I would never meet,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''It's been a good ride.''
 Last week, Peter Balthrop Sr., 38, was jubilant because the company had offered him a job in Winston-Salem. Both of Mr. Balthrop's parents worked for Brown & Williamson, and he started there right after high school. ''It's all I know right here,'' he said. ''All I know is tobacco, running machines; it's all I've ever done.'' 
 Mr. Balthrop said that if the company told him to be there tomorrow, he would leave that night. ''Georgia's been good to me,'' he said, ''but I'm ready to go.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brown & Williamson once employed 3,000 at its Macon, Ga., plant. Now the plant, with 2,000 workers, plans layoffs and will eventually close.
 Big Tobacco has been a favored corporate neighbor in Macon. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%) Smoking and Tobacco; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Travel and Vacations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (58%); KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Brown & Williamson Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: Shaila K Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: MACON, GA, USA (94%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Macon (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



329 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Religion Journal; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Maine Churches Add Environmentalism to Ministries

BYLINE: By FRANCINE PARNES

 BODY:
At Bath United Church of Christ in Bath, Me., the Rev. Bill Bliss sees no point in preaching to his congregation a gospel of how to save the environment. It is not that his church members would balk at using God's resources efficiently. Indeed, many members of his church, where he often lowers the thermostat to 60 degrees in winter, are so well-versed in protecting the earth that he would be preaching to the choir.
 ''Environmentalism comes up regularly in my sermons, but I don't have to harangue my parishioners about wasteful and polluting ways,'' Mr. Bliss said. ''Our congregation gave up Styrofoam a long time ago.'' Mr. Bliss said he was ''the kind of guy who gives up driving a car for Lent.'' 
 ''I do it to experience God's creation at a more human pace,'' he said. ''And I'm not participating in enriching oil corporations.'' 
 That is why he sometimes rides his bicycle in snowstorms and hitchhikes from town to town.
 Efforts like those of Mr. Bliss, his congregation and other like-minded churchgoers have put Maine in the forefront of religiously motivated environmental activity, said Paul Gorman, director of the National Religious Partnership for the Environment, an organization of Christian and Jewish groups, in Washington. 
 A pivotal moment for the state came last fall, when the Maine Council of Churches' Environmental Justice Program and Maine Interfaith Power & Light Inc., part of a national network that advocates ''green'' electricity from renewable sources, asked local congregations to choose two or three new environmental tasks. About 36 congregations now have mostly lay-led environmental groups called EarthCare teams, up from 24 last fall, said Anne Burt, director of the Maine Council of Churches' Environmental Justice Program in Portland. Congregations have been introducing environmentalism into Sunday schools, undergoing energy audits of their churches, reducing cars idling and changing the very buildings in which they meet, with window replacements and added insulation. 
 Beyond the usual newspaper recycling and turning off lights, they are also holding energy-efficiency fairs, buying organically grown coffee for coffee hours and exploring possibilities of using solar power for their facilities. Three small congregations have saved about 900,000 pounds of carbon dioxide from being released into the atmosphere, Ms. Burt said. 
 ''We are building an environmental movement in the pews,'' she Burt added. ''What's exciting about our teams and similar movements around the country is that we're taking actions with people who see themselves as church-going people, not environmentalists. They're beginning to see saving the planet through new eyes, through a faith journey.''
 Why Maine? ''So much of our Maine economic base, like our skiing, fishing, maple sugar and wood industries, is tied to our natural resources,'' Ms. Burt said. ''And they're all being threatened.''
 For those who consider environmental stewardship central to leading a godly life, many of Maine's houses of worship are ''ahead of the game,'' Mr. Gorman said. At a time when many religious leaders are asking politicians to support legislation to curb global warming, ''no one would be surprised if this is going on in California, but Maine is a bellwether state,'' he said, adding, ''Here's a very evolved program that's got institutional support of churches; it's not just eight people meeting in a church basement.''
 The First Parish Congregational Church, United Church of Christ, in Saco, Me., is building a more energy-efficient house of worship to replace the one that burned.
 ''They don't teach a lot of Construction 101 at seminary,'' said the Rev. Dr. Douglas Nielsen, the senior minister. ''But if you think about your own house, it's not all that different; it's just that the church is larger. If people see their house of worship taking things seriously like energy efficiency for appliances and lighting, heating and cooling systems, then it may invite them in their own houses to take it that seriously as well. It's not just a head trip.''
 But support is not automatic.
 ''I get a lot of 'no's' in my parish when I bring things up like, 'How about if we use cloth napkins for the Lenten luncheon?''' said Sally Chappell, a member of the EarthCare team at St. Joseph Roman Catholic Church in Bridgton, Me., which recycles and uses green electricity in the rectory. ''I've heard people in parishes in different states come to loggerheads over disposable and nondisposable dishes. I don't want to offend my fellow parishioners. I'm trying to promote ecology without being a pain in the you-know-what.''
 Still, momentum is spreading, said Christine James, congregational outreach coordinator for Maine Interfaith Power & Light in Brunswick. ''I go to faith communities that have yet to get started with earth stewardship,'' Ms. James said, ''and individuals wonder, 'How can I possibly make a difference to the melting of polar ice caps or the weakening of the ozone layer?' I let them know there are dozens of other congregations in Maine working on it, too.''
 Education is helping. ''In the classroom, when I am talking about social action in the life of the church, I always identify the environment as one of the central issues along with war and peace and human rights that churches need to address,'' said the Rev. Dr. Bill Imes, president of the Bangor Theological Seminary, which is supporting construction of an Indian wind farm in South Dakota. ''If we believe that God created this world, then we believe we are called by God to look out for this world.''
 Children are learning, too. At St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in Yarmouth, Me., where ''we are infusing into our whole life as a worshipping community a sense of the earth as a sacrament,'' students learn that some light bulbs generate ''God's gift of light'' more efficiently, said Libby Moore, a Sunday school teacher and chairwoman of the church's Environmental Stewardship Committee. ''A lot of my students who are 4, 5, 6 years old are already recycling at home,'' she said.
 ''After church,'' she said, ''sometimes I catch them in the creek with cattail heads. The seeds fly through the air and they say, 'Look, the breath of God.' They're making connections.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SKIING (71%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); WEATHER (71%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%) Environment; Conservation of Resources; Electric Light and Power; Religion and Churches

ORGANIZATION: Maine Council of Churches; Maine Interfaith Power & Light Inc

PERSON: Francine Parnes

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (55%) MAINE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



330 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: A Man With a Moving Van (So to Speak)

BYLINE: By ELAINE ARADILLAS

 BODY:
New Yorkers have a lot of stuff and they move around a lot. This looked like an opportunity to John Parker.
 If you have too much to put into a taxi, he said, and not enough for a moving truck, ''there's a gap in the middle, and that's where we fall.''
 Mr. Parker and a growing number of other New Yorkers with a van and a strong back are filling that niche in the moving industry. 
 Mr. Parker, 47, said that work has been steady since he started using his white Chevrolet Astro van to move people's belongings last summer. He is a painter and musician, and had bought the van to carry his paintings and drums. But the sagging economy cut into sales of his artwork and fewer people were calling for music lessons. He was broke, and the moving business offered sure money.
 ''I'm not out to make a million dollars,'' he said. ''I want to do something a few hours a day to allow me to do my other interests.''
 The growing demand for small-scale movers became evident when Craigslist, the service-oriented Web site, created a separate category for it in November 2002.
 Craig Newmark, the founder of Craigslist, credits his chief executive, Jim Buckmaster, with creating the popular category, labeled ''labor/move'' at craigslist.org, after he discovered a number of listings offering moving help appeared under different headings like ''community.''
 The listings in the new category increased steadily, Mr. Newmark said in a telephone interview from San Francisco.
 In addition to placing their ads on free Web sites, the small movers buy ads in alternative weekly newspapers, distribute fliers and hand out business cards. Mr. Parker says he relies on word-of-mouth for most of his business today.
 The flexibility provided by Mr. Parker and his van has pleased Stephen Gatti, a color chemist with Temptu, a manufacturer of special effects makeup that has offices in Queens and Manhattan.
 The company once used couriers and messengers in the past, but they provided little room for a change of plans, Mr. Gatti said. For example, he said, if a package was not ready when a courier arrived, he might turn around and leave. Mr. Parker's relaxed attitude is appreciated.
 ''Sometimes it's 2 pounds, sometimes it's 200 pounds,'' he said, adding, ''If we call at the last minute and say we don't need him, he doesn't yell at us.''
 On average, a mover and his van cost $30 to $40 an hour with a one- or two-hour minimum required. A professional mover can cost about $100 an hour with a three-hour minimum. 
 Movers are required to be licensed in New York, which protects consumers when their belongings are damaged or stolen. There also have been reports of some movers who, in effect, held goods hostage until customers made payments above the contracted amount.
 Many of the small movers are unlicensed, however, in no small part because it can cost up to $10,000 per truck to meet the state's provisions for insurance and other requirements.
 Jonathan Nicastro, supervising investigator for the State Department of Transportation, the agency that oversees moving companies, said that he had received few complaints from customers about the movers with small vans.
 Besides the flexible hours enjoyed by these small-scale movers, another benefit is the workout that it provides, said Ken Modeste, 24, who started moving things a year ago with his 1992 Ford van. 
 ''You don't see many out-of-shape movers,'' he said. ''A lot of people don't want to climb four to five flights of stairs.''
 He had bought the van to cart his motorcycle to races that he entered, but after his cycle broke down, he was left with a van without a purpose. After a week of trying to sell it, he became a mover.
 Women have started to infiltrate the ranks of the solo movers. Debbie Yorizzo, 31, one of at least two women listed as movers on the Craigslist site recently, said it had been a struggle to be taken seriously.
 ''More straight men call me to flirt and women call me to move furniture,'' said Ms. Yorizzo, who expects to earn her master's degree in physical education in the fall. ''I'm stronger than most of the men I see.''
 She said moving was not as hard as getting word out about her business. She said she cannot afford newspaper advertisements, so she offers her services on Craigslist. She also posts fliers in downtown coffee shops, but complains that other movers take them down.
 Despite the competition, movers with small vans have a respect for one another. ''There are eight million people in this city,'' Mr. Parker said. ''There's enough pie for everybody.''
 The hours and money are nice, but Mr. Parker said it was the people who kept him in such a demanding job. He said he met about 500 people a year through his moving job, and about 498 of them were great.
 As soon as customers climb into his passenger seat, they talk to him as if he were their bartender or hairdresser. Moving is often an overwhelming experience, and many times people are ready to talk about their broken relationships or disgruntled roommates.
 ''If it was just taking things from one place to another without the people, I couldn't do it,'' he said. ''Putting your things in the van signifies closure. Now, they can open up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: If cabs or moving trucks won't do, clients have another option. ''There's a gap in the middle, and that's where we fall,'' Mr. Parker said.
 John Parker, at his studio in Long Island City, thought about the migratory patterns of New Yorkers and saw a business opportunity. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); PAINTING (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (68%); WEB SITES (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Moving Industry; Vans; Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JIM BUCKMASTER (50%) Elaine Aradillas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



331 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1157 words

PERSON: Joshua Bornstein

HEADLINE: A Young American Outsources Himself to India

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
THE rooftop terrace at Cosmo Village was crowded with young partygoers savoring the temperate night air, oversize Kingfisher beers, and their place in this moment of global economic convergence.
 At one table, five friends from Singapore sat with a 6-foot-3, 23-year-old anomaly: Joshua Bornstein, perhaps the only native-born American among the Bangalore-based employees of Infosys Technologies, one of India's software and services giants, and one of the few Americans of his generation in Bangalore. 
 For all the complaints about American jobs migrating here through outsourcing, few Americans have thought to follow them. Eight months ago, Josh Bornstein did. 
 He quit his job at an investment banking firm in Los Angeles and came to this southern city on the Deccan plateau. He pays $110 a month to share a two-bedroom apartment with a Japanese roommate. He takes the company bus to work at the Infosys campus, as lush and large as Microsoft's in Seattle. He has Indian, European, Israeli and Asian friends, and he has become a familiar figure on this city's thriving pub scene. ''Everyone talks about globalization left and right,'' he said. ''This is the way the world is moving.''
 Perhaps so, but he is the only one of his friends in the United States who even considered going to India for work after college. 
 He has become a member of a cosmopolitan village that has formed as multinational companies flock here, and Indian companies try to become multinationals. The city is full of foreigners -- 10,000 to 12,000 are registered here with the government's office of foreign registration. At some bars, the crowds are so mixed they look as if they could be in London. 
 The foreigners are staffing multinational companies and filling five-star hotels to overflowing. Those here for longer stints are living in exclusive housing complexes, and international schools are springing up for their children. 
 Few Americans are among them, even though previous generations of young American graduates have pursued literary careers in Paris or tried to take capitalism and democracy to Russia and Eastern Europe. India would seem a logical next choice, given an economy that grew by 8.2 percent last year, a software and services sector that grew by 28 percent last year and the way outsourcing is rewriting the rules of the American and the global economy. 
 But most Americans still feel India can teach them more about spiritual practices than business models. Not Mr. Bornstein. On his first weekend, he met a Westerner who said he came to India because his guru told him to. ''I can't really relate to that,'' said Mr. Bornstein, who was raised in Chicago. 
 HE first learned about Infosys, which has 25,000 employees, through its summer global internship program, which this year received 8,500 applications for 75 spots. Mr. Bornstein ended up being one of them in 2001 when a summer job in San Francisco fell through after the high-tech economy tanked. A friend told him about Infosys, and he figured it could be his only chance both to go to India and to get a summer job. 
 The experience helped him collar four job offers after graduation from Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, Calif. He chose an investment bank in Los Angeles, which he found too hierarchical. Miserable there, he got in touch with his old boss at Infosys, and soon had a job in Bangalore.
 He works in corporate planning, helping seven units hone their business plans, and regularly sits in on meetings with the Infosys chief executive, Nandan Nilekani, and other senior executives. 
 Infosys is one of many companies whose gain has been American software programmers' loss in this era of outsourcing. Mr. Bornstein extends his sympathy but wonders why Americans so readily accepted the ''made in China'' label when that cost ''thousands or even millions of jobs lost.'' 
 He does not see himself as taking sides, but as gaining experience. ''It is impossible I would have a similar experience in my life at this stage in the United States,'' he said. 
 He knows Indian culture places a high value on experience, and he is lucky that his height masks his youth. ''I've lied more about my age here than I ever have,'' Mr. Bornstein said. ''Honestly, I don't know if Nandan knows how old I am.'' 
 As it turns out, Mr. Nilekani did not. 
 ''How old is he?'' he asked. 
 ''My God,'' he said when he heard. 
 MR. BORNSTEIN does not dwell on whether his American identity has allowed him to leapfrog to a higher position than would be available to a 23-year-old Indian, and neither does Mr. Nilekani. As he sees it, Mr. Bornstein's attributes of intelligence and a positive attitude are supplemented by his cultural perspective. 
 The company wants to become truly multinational and multicultural, able to win business in any country. That requires interaction with other nationalities, but most of Infosys's 650 or so foreign employees work in the company's offices abroad. ''When the bulk of the working population is here, we also need to create some diversity here so people are comfortable in working with people with different cultures,'' Mr. Nilekani said. 
 He said he would clone Mr. Bornstein if he could. He has a boy-next-door appeal, a studied pace of speech that suggests a brain at work. 
 He brings an unusual adaptability: a curiosity toward, but no critique of, other cultures. Sixty percent of his Indian friends' marriages were arranged. He wonders if the pressures to please a large family outweigh the option of pleasing oneself, but resists the temptation to pass judgment. ''If someone is happy doing that, it's not my role to criticize.'' 
 More than cultural differences, more than power outages and rough roads, he finds the extremes of wealth and poverty hard to take, feeling guilt at having mastered the skill of ignoring the beggar in front of him. 
 His parents, a lawyer and an academic, fostered independence and a sense of responsibility in Mr. Bornstein, their eldest son. They, like their son, favor what he calls the ''calculated risk.'' At one point, his father, tired of Chicago, moved the family to Colorado with no new job. It worked out fine. 
 Mr. Bornstein describes himself as ''marginally kosher.'' For Passover, his parents sent food; Infosys provided a cook so he could keep kosher. 
 He works 10- to 12-hour days, but lives well. His salary is less than a third of what he earned in Los Angeles but he is still able to save a few hundred dollars a month and afford the Champagne Brunch at the Leela Palace hotel, where the French chef is a friend. ''I'm enjoying myself,'' he said. 
 There is only one problem. Mr. Bornstein's girlfriend of five and a half years is in the United States. His plan was to stay two or three years; she does not want to wait. These are days of decision. 
 Whenever he leaves, though, his legacy is already secure: he is devising a recruiting plan so Mr. Nilekani can lure more Americans to Bangalore.


GRAPHIC: Photo: JOSHUA BORNSTEIN (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BONDS (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (54%) Computers and the Internet; Stocks and Bonds; Computer Software; Labor

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

Amy Waldman; Joshua Bornstein

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (96%); SINGAPORE (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%) India; Bangalore (India)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



332 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Dell's Forecast Of Solid Profit Lifts PC Sector

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 16 

 BODY:
Perhaps investors should feel more confident about the general state of the technology sector than they have in recent weeks. 
 Dell Computer, the world's leading maker of personal computers, delivered a dose of positive news on Friday when it announced that its second-quarter earnings would be stronger than expected.
 The company said it expected to earn 31 cents a share for the quarter that ends July 30, or 2 cents above both its previous forecast and the consensus of analysts, according to Thomson First Call. The outlook was based on second-quarter revenue of $11.7 billion, which is in line with the company's previous guidance. 
 The announcement comes one day after I.B.M., the corporate-computing giant, reported quarterly profits that surpassed Wall Street estimates. Also on Thursday, the research firm IDC released a report showing that personal computer shipments were more robust in April, May and June than expected. 
 ''The industry is seeing a PC recovery occurring, especially in the commercial segment,'' said Alan Promisel, an IDC analyst. The commercial sector, as defined by the research firm, includes businesses, governments and schools. 
 ''There's significant demand especially coming from the small-, medium- and large-business segments,'' Mr. Promisel said. 
 The personal computer market grew 14 to 15 percent in the second quarter of 2004, compared with the period last year, according to IDC. For the same period, Dell's personal computer shipments grew 23 percent.
 ''We're definitely in a major upgrade cycle in both the business and the home market, and that's likely to continue for the next several quarters because there's good underlying economic rationale for the upgrades in both market,'' said Charles R. Wolf, a Wall Street analyst at Needham & Company.
 The news on the technology front had been mostly bad in recent weeks. A spate of surprisingly disappointing second-quarter earnings, coupled with news of rising inventories prompted analysts to question whether technology spending had suddenly stalled. 
 Software companies that sell expensive packages to the corporate market have provided the bulk of bad news in this earnings season. PeopleSoft, Veritas and Siebel Systems are among the large publicly-traded companies that have warned that their earnings will fall short of expectations or have tamped down expectations of future growth. 
 On Tuesday, Intel, the world's largest maker of computer chips, revealed that its inventory had reached a three-year high as corporate buying lagged.
 But there was good news on Wednesday from Apple Computer, which announced that its profits tripled in the quarter. Most of that gain was from surging demand for its iPod portable music player, but the company said sales of its Macintosh computer were up 19 percent. 
 ''Despite warnings from some sectors of the information technology industry, the recovery seems to be holding steady for now,'' said Roger Kay, an IDC analyst, in a statement that accompanied Thursday's release of his firm's quarterly personal computer report. 
 His colleague, Mr. Promisel, added, that ''some of the more negative news was isolated to specific company problems.''
 Intel, for instance, reported that profits nearly doubled in the second quarter. Its mistake, according to Andy D. Bryant, the company's chief financial officer, was that it should have reduced its production levels sooner than it did to avoid an inventory surplus. 
 ''A lot of this comes down to expectations that are too high,'' said Kevin Hunt, a Wall Street analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners. ''You look at some of these companies and they have 15 percent growth, which isn't bad, but they were expecting 25 or whatever, which is why they get hit so hard.
 ''The general trend of business is still O.K. and trending up.'' 
 Still, Mr. Wolf warned against reading too much into the Dell announcement. Of the 2 cents above previous forecasts, Mr. Wolf said, ''one penny of that upside is due to a lower tax rate, deriving a higher percentage of its revenues from the international market.'' 
 ''A second penny was the result of better margins'' based largely on a drop in the price of component parts, he said. 
 ''If there had been stronger revenues, that would have been a much more positive signal,'' Mr. Wolf said. 
 Shares of Dell rose 55 cents, to close at $35.42 on Friday. Dell's announcement came just before the start of the company's annual shareholders meeting in Austin, Tex. At the meeting, Kevin Rollins took over as chief executive, replacing the company's founder, Michael Dell. 
 ''Today's change is one of title, not of roles and responsibilities,'' Mr. Dell told shareholders, according to a Reuters news report. Mr. Dell, who founded the company in 1984, remains as the board chairman. 
 The company had previously announced its intentions to promote Mr. Rollins.
 Also on Friday, shareholders narrowly rejected a resolution calling on the company to treat employee stock options as a normal business expense. In recent months, shareholders at Intel, the Hewlett-Packard Company, and PeopleSoft have passed similar resolutions. Stockholders of Apple did so in 2003.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Dell, right, with Kevin Rollins, who succeeded him as chief executive of Dell at the annual meeting yesterday in Austin, Tex. Analysts saw new reasons to expect a recovery for the personal computer sector. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); SHIPMENTS (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%) Computers and the Internet; Sales; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (65%); INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Dell Computer Corp; International Business Machines Corp; Idc (Co)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (73%) Gary Rivlin; Michael Dell; Kevin Rollins

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



333 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Unions to Picket at Garden To Put Pressure on Mayor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Three of New York City's most prominent unions -- the police, the firefighters and the teachers -- plan to begin round-the-clock picketing at Madison Square Garden on Monday to protest their lack of a contract.
 The three unions have decided to picket the Garden, the site of the Republican National Convention next month, to pressure Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg into improving his wage offer and to bring attention to their cause.
 ''We're doing this to deliver our message to all New Yorkers,'' said Stephen J. Cassidy, president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association. ''The Republicans are coming to bask in the glow of Sept. 11, and yet the firefighters and police officers who died in record numbers and continue to be the frontline defenders for this city haven't had a contract for more than two years.'' 
 Union officials said they had been planning to file a lawsuit yesterday because, in their view, the Police Department was violating their constitutional rights by saying that no more than 46 union members could picket on the block surrounding the Garden. 
 But the city avoided litigation when it lifted that limit after negotiations between the unions and the corporation counsel's office. The city agreed to let 150 to 200 people picket and distribute fliers outside the Garden so long as they stood at least 20 feet apart. In addition, the city agreed that several hundred more union members could picket near the corner of Eighth Avenue and 33rd Street.
 Union officials said the picketing on Monday would coincide with the beginning of preparatory construction work for the convention. The picketing is scheduled to last 10 days, but union officials said it might continue until the convention ends on Sept. 2.
 Labor leaders said the unions would engage in informational picketing and would not ask New Yorkers to honor the picket line. Union leaders acknowledged that if they asked other workers, most notably the construction workers responsible for convention preparations, to honor the picket line, that would violate a pledge that the city's Central Labor Council and construction unions had made to the city. To help lure the convention and its economic benefits, they promised there would be no work stoppages that disrupted the event.
 ''Right now, I don't anticipate any disruption,'' said Brian McLaughlin, president of the labor council, the umbrella group for the city's unions.
 The police, firefighters and teachers are resisting Mr. Bloomberg's demand that they accept the same 5 percent raise over three years accepted by the largest municipal union, District Council 37. Leaders from the three unions assert that they deserve more than D.C. 37 received because of the difficulties in recruiting and retaining teachers and police officers and because of the heroism that the police and firefighters displayed after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.
 Mr. Bloomberg has said that the city's budget problems mean that it cannot afford the larger raises sought by the teachers, police and firefighters. 
 Noting that the Republicans want to honor the heroes of Sept. 11, Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said, ''The mayor is insulting the very people that the Republicans want to honor during their convention.''
 City Hall officials urged the unions to negotiate, rather than demonstrate. Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said: ''New York's firefighters and police officers will be better served by leaders who negotiate at the bargaining table. Unfortunately, the only thing these guys know how to do is blow hot air.''
 Officials with the Republican National Convention seemed unfazed by next week's picketing. 
 Leonardo Alcivar, a convention spokesman, said, ''We have enjoyed from Day 1 a terrific relationship with labor in New York.''
 He added, ''It would be disappointing for anyone to use 9/11 as a bargaining tool for the purposes of labor negotiations.''
 In Boston, the main police union briefly disrupted preparations for the Democratic National Convention, to be held there later this month, by demonstrating outside the Fleet Center, the site of the event. That union has threatened to picket wherever Boston's mayor, Thomas M. Menino, goes during the Democrats' convention. 
 The Boston Police Patrolmen's Association has rejected his offer of an 11.9 percent raise over four years. It is seeking a raise of 16 to 18 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); RIOTS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Madison Square Garden; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots; Police; Presidential Election of 2004; Fires and Firefighters; Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%) United Federation of Teachers; Patrolmen's Benevolent Assn; Uniformed Firefighters Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Alan Feuer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



334 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARTHA STEWART'S SENTENCE: THE CORPORATE ROLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Stewart Likely To Influence Her Company, Even From Jail

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Martha Stewart is all but certain to serve prison time. But few believe that she will give up her connections and influence over her company. 
 There is no law against her working for her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, although working from prison -- if her appeal is unsuccessful -- will require overcoming some logistical obstacles. Since the sentence she received yesterday is only five months long, with five months of home confinement, few doubt that when she is released she will take up some role at the company that she built. 
 ''I don't think there are any expectations that she will all of a sudden go away,'' said Eugene E. Murphy, a partner in the Chicago law office of Bryan Cave. ''I fully anticipate her, if not directly then indirectly, operating her company, or at least having a significant'' impact.
 This is one of the many ways that Ms. Stewart's conviction on charges of lying to federal investigators about a stock sale in December 2001 is different from cases against other executives. If Kenneth L. Lay, former chief executive of Enron, is convicted, no one expects him to find a job at the company when it emerges from bankruptcy proceedings. And one rather doubts that Frank P. Quattrone, convicted for obstruction of justice, would get a job at his old employer, Credit Suisse First Boston.
 ''It's a very, very strange one,'' said Charles Elson, director of the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. 
 The strangeness is a result of the unusually close, even blurry relationship between Ms. Stewart and her company. She is the majority stockholder, with about 60 percent of the shares. She is also the embodiment of the brand and the creative force behind the company's products, including the magazine that carries her name.
 ''That's what makes her situation unique,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''She was the biggest player in that game, not only in terms of ownership but also operationally and economically.''
 But such cases are not unheard of. Two years ago Steve Madden, the former chief executive of the trendy shoe line named for him, was sentenced to 41 months in prison for securities fraud and money laundering. Although he stepped down as chief executive, an employment contract that allowed the company to use his name assured him payments of $700,000 a year -- payments he continues to receive, even while in prison.
 Such continuing relationships with former employers are possible because no law bars a convicted criminal from working for a former employer, lawyers said, although company bylaws often prohibit those guilty of crimes of ''moral turpitude'' from serving as directors or officers. (Ms. Stewart has given up her posts of chief executive, chairwoman and chief creative officer.)
 ''The Bureau of Prisons has restrictions on what she can do,'' but that's the only challenge to working from prison or home detention, said Jill Fisch, director of the center for corporate, securities and financial law at Fordham Law School. ''You're a lot more limited in what you can do, just practically, but there's no legal restriction.''
 Even though prisoners may be required to perform certain tasks during the day, they are able to receive visitors and, at designated times, make telephone calls, lawyers said. She will not have speedy access to faxes or e-mail messages, Mr. Murphy said, but she will be able to read newspapers, for example. 
 ''You cannot cut her off in terms of access to information,'' he added.
 What is also odd about this case is that there would probably be very little opposition to Ms. Stewart's playing a role in her company's operations, largely because the company was not the victim of the crime she was convicted of, Ms. Fisch said. 
 ''Most of the white-collar convictions that we've seen are based on wrongdoing that's intertwined with the executive's position at the company --accounting fraud, manipulating the company's transactions or records, securities fraud based on the company's own misstatements and so forth,'' Ms. Fisch said. ''The conduct of which Martha Stewart was convicted, lying to federal officials, was purely personal.''
 That puts enough distance between Ms. Stewart's crime and any responsibilities at the company that her working there might not be objectionable, said Robert Curry, a partner at the law firm of Kirby McInerney & Squire in New York. 
 ''It really is a fact-specific investigation,'' he said, ''and here it seems that the charges she has been convicted on and sentenced on are sufficiently remote.''
 After Ms. Stewart serves any prison time, perhaps it would be unfair to hold any past crime against her anyway, Mr. Elson said. ''There is the idea that once you've paid your debt, you've paid your debt.''
 As majority shareholder, Ms. Stewart will continue to wield considerable but not unlimited influence over the company. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has filed a civil suit against Ms. Stewart, seeks both to bar her from serving as a director of a public company and to limit the responsibilities she could take as an officer. And given the media attention to Ms. Stewart, Ms. Fisch observed, ''Obviously she is going to be cautious about exercising that control and about any appearance of impropriety.''
 But it may be appropriate to let Ms. Stewart continue to be productive in her company in some way, even if she is in prison, Ms. Fisch added. ''From an average-citizen standpoint, what would you rather have Martha Stewart do, work on future plans for her company or make license plates?'' she asked, and then added, ''Although they would be very nice license plates.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Stewart outside the federal courthouse in Manhattan after her sentencing yesterday. If she does serve prison time, she is expected to continue to work for and influence the company that bears her name, despite some logistical obstacles. (Photo by Andrew Gombert/European Pressphoto Agency)
Peter E. Bacanovic as he arrived yesterday at federal court in Manhattan. He was sentenced to five months in prison. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Martha Stewart supporters outside the federal courthouse yesterday in Manhattan. Ms. Stewart was sentenced to five months in prison on charges of lying to investigators about a stock sale in 2001. She is appealing the sentence, which also includes five months of home confinement. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)
1959 -- A high school senior in the Nutley, N.J. yearbook
1982 -- Preparing a luncheon at Turkey Hill, her farmhouse in Westport, Conn. (Photo by Associated Press/Ron Frehm)
1987 -- At home shortly after the release of her book on decorating wedding cakes. (Photo by Stephen Castagneto)
Oct. 1999 -- Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia begins trading
A Time Inc. publication started in 1991
Bought by Ms. Stewart in 1997
''Entertaining,'' 1982, ''Martha Stewart's Hors D'Oeuvres Handbook,'' 1999
2004 -- Leaving court after being convicted. (Photo by Timothy A. Clary/Agence France-Presse Getty Images)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Finding Her Niche''Martha Stewart's image was built around stories -- woven into her books, her magazines and her television program -- of her inspirational parents and childhood. Biographies of her usually say that her early years were not so rosy. It was only after her modeling career ended, a second career on Wall St. failed and she moved to Connecticut that she found her calling.A girl from NutleyThe second of six children, she was born Martha Kostyra in August 1941 and grew up in Nutley, N.J., a working-class town. According to biographers, her father was overbearing and demanding
her mother, also named Martha, was an overworked homemaker.Modeling and marriageShe began modeling during high school which paid for Barnard College in New York City. After she met and married Andy Stewart, a Yale law student, her modeling career withered.Motherhood and a foray on Wall St.The Stewart's only child, Alexis, was born in 1965. Three years later, Ms. Stewart joined a small brokerage firm and became its top seller. Among the stocks she sold was Levitz Furniture, which collapsed in a wave of scandal and corruption.Turkey Hill is bornIn 1971, the Stewarts bought a rundown farmhouse in Westport, Conn., on Turkey Hill Road, which she turned into a showplace. She also started a catering business and opened a store selling foods she made. They were instantly successful.Martha Inc. takes flightIn 1977, she incorporated her businesses as Martha Stewart Inc. In 1982, she published her first book, ''Entertaining,'' which became a best seller. By 1987, she had written four more books and Martha Stewart Inc. was flourishing.Selling Martha Inc.Martha Stewart has extended her brand to include publishing, television and merchandise, which her company sells directly and through retailers. In 1999, she took her company public.Television''Martha Stewart Living,'' 1-hour, available to 50% of householdsInternet and catalogThe Catalog for Livingmarthastewart.comMerchandisingSALES PARTNERSKmartSears CanadaSeiyu (Japan)Sherwin-WilliamsPublishingBOOKS13 books by Martha Stewart32 books published by Martha Stewart LivingMAGAZINESMartha Stewart Living, monthlyMartha Stewart Weddings, quarterlyEveryday Food, seasonalSYNDICATIONA weekly column appearing in about 200 newspapersRadio program 5 days a week on over 200 radio stations2003 REVENUE: $245.8 millionTelevision: 10.5%Internet and catalog: 12.5Merchandising: 21.7Publishing: 55.3Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaGraph tracks the weekly closing share price since 1999.Trial and FallDec. 27, 2001 -- Ms. Stewart sells all of her shares in ImClone Systems after receiving a message from her broker at Merrill Lynch, Peter E. Bacanovic (top right), that Dr. Samuel D. Waksal (right), a friend of Ms. Stewart and the founder of ImClone Systems, is heavily selling his stock in his own company.June 7, 2002 -- Reports surface that Ms. Stewart is being investigated for her sale of ImClone stock.June 3, 2003 -- Ms. Stewart is indicted and pleads not guilty.Jan. 20, 2004 -- Ms. Stewart's trial begins.Feb. 3, 2004 -- Douglas Faneuil, right, Mr. Bacanovic's former assistant, testifies that he told Ms. Stewart about Dr. Waksal's frenzied sales on Dec. 27, 2001.March 5, 2004 -- Ms. Stewart is convicted.ConspiracyCOUNTS: 1VERDICT: GUILTYObstruction of justiceCOUNTS: 1VERDICT: GUILTYMaking false statementsCOUNTS: 2VERDICT: GUILTYSecurities fraudCOUNTS: 1VERDICT: DISMISSEDMarch 15, 2004 -- Ms. Stewart resigns as an executive and board member of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia.July 16, 2004 -- Ms. Stewart is sentenced to 5 months in prison and 5 months of home confinement.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
company reports
Martha Inc by Christopher Byron)
 (Chart by Macaulay Campbell and Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (79%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SENTENCING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (71%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); FOOTWEAR (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%) Cancer; Insiders Information; Erbitux (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Cancer

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); STEVEN MADDEN LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Imclone Systems Inc; Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia 

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); SHOO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (52%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (52%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (52%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (95%); PETER L LYNCH (70%) Jonathan D Glater; Martha Stewart; Peter Bacanovic

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (89%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); DELAWARE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



335 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Public Warms to Edwards; Race Still Close

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and JANET ELDER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards is viewed far more favorably than unfavorably by Americans in the aftermath of his introduction as Senator John Kerry's running mate, and the intensity of feeling for Mr. Kerry has deepened, among his backers in the presidential race, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 But naming Mr. Edwards did not immediately win over any substantial number of voters for the Democratic ticket, and the campaign between Mr. Kerry and President Bush remains statistically deadlocked as Mr. Kerry heads toward the Democratic convention and his best opportunity to make a strong impression on the country, the poll found.
 The poll also found that Mr. Bush's approval ratings were at low levels for an incumbent at this point in a presidential campaign and that for the first time a majority of Americans feel the United States should have stayed out of Iraq. 
 The results suggested that the country is as deeply divided as ever, leaving both sides struggling to alter the campaign's basic story line, in which Mr. Bush is showing clear vulnerabilities but Mr. Kerry has been unable to exploit them.
 Mr. Kerry's greatest opportunity appears to remain Mr. Bush's handling of Iraq. Fifty-one percent of respondents said the United States should have stayed out of Iraq, up from 46 percent in April, May and June. Forty-five percent said taking military action in Iraq was the right thing to do, down slightly from the past several months. 
 Sixty-two percent said the war was not worth the loss of American lives and other costs, a figure that has risen steadily over the past few months.
 Signaling that the White House may be running into trouble in its effort to portray Mr. Bush as the surer pair of hands when it comes to national security, the poll suggested that the nation was closely split over which party would make better decisions when it comes to Iraq. Forty-five percent said the Democrats were more likely to make the right decisions about the war and 41 percent said Republicans.
 Although the pace and intensity of the campaign have increased this month, major developments over the past several weeks that could have helped one side or the other appeared to have limited impact. 
 While Mr. Kerry's selection of Mr. Edwards did not substantially alter the race, it corresponded with a deepening of the support for Mr. Kerry, though that support remained less intense than that for Mr. Bush. Forty-one percent said they strongly favored Mr. Kerry, up 10 percentage points from last month. Also, the percentage of people who said they were backing Mr. Kerry because they disliked the other candidates fell to 27 percent from 37 percent.
 Among Mr. Bush's backers, 60 percent said they strongly favored him, up from 56 percent last month. Eight percent said they supported him because they disliked the other candidates, down from 11 percent last month.
 The poll had some encouraging news for the Democrats when it came to the matchup between Mr. Edwards and Vice President Dick Cheney. Although 39 percent of respondents said they had not heard enough about Mr. Edwards to have an opinion and 13 percent said they were undecided about him, 35 percent said they had a favorable opinion and 13 percent an unfavorable opinion. Since his selection, Republicans have sought to portray Mr. Edwards as an inexperienced liberal trial lawyer in an effort to offset the appeal and charismatic speaking style he displayed in the Democratic primaries.
 Mr. Cheney was viewed favorably by 28 percent and unfavorably by 37 percent: a figure that rose nine percentage points since last month. Mr. Cheney has been more in the news over the last month than he has often been since taking office. He has vigorously defended the administration's record on Iraq and terrorism, and he acknowledged swearing at a senior Democratic senator on the Senate floor.
 Mr. Bush's standing in the poll appeared not to be helped much by the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq. But nor was it hurt by the Senate Intelligence Committee's conclusion that the prewar intelligence about Iraq was flawed.
 The poll found that 45 percent of those surveyed approved of the job Mr. Bush is doing. That was up slightly from a May poll by CBS News, when it stood at 41 percent, but it was still below where it stood at the beginning of the year and below the level generally considered safe for an incumbent seeking re-election. Forty-eight percent disapproved of the job Mr. Bush is doing.
 Mr. Bush's approval rating on foreign policy stood at 39 percent, about where it has been for the last three months. Fifty-five percent of respondents disapproved of the way he is handling foreign policy.
 On Mr. Bush's handling of Iraq, 37 percent approved and 58 percent disapproved, figures that were little changed from polls in May and June, before the Iraqis were granted self-governance on June 28. But the president got higher marks for the effort to combat terrorism, with 51 percent expressing approval of the job he is doing. And a sharp increase this year in the number of people who said things were going badly in Iraq appears to have leveled off, with 56 percent saying things are going somewhat or very badly, down from 60 percent this spring.
 Signs that the economy has strengthened have helped Mr. Bush's standing somewhat since the winter, but his approval ratings on his handling of the economy still remain relatively low. Forty-two percent of those surveyed approved of his handling of the economy, and 51 percent disapproved.
 Asked whether their opinions of Mr. Kerry were favorable, unfavorable or undecided, 36 percent of registered voters said favorable. That was up seven percentage points since last month but was roughly where Mr. Kerry was when he was wrapping up the Democratic nomination in February. Thirty-three percent said not favorable, and 29 percent said they were undecided or did not know enough about him.
 The Times/CBS News poll, like other recent polls, found the race to be close, within its margin of error. In a head-to-head matchup, the Kerry-Edwards ticket was supported by 49 percent of registered voters, and a Bush-Cheney ticket by 44 percent. In a three-way race, Mr. Kerry was at 45 percent, Mr. Bush at 42 percent and Ralph Nader at 5 percent.
 The nationwide telephone poll was taken from Sunday through Thursday and surveyed 955 adults, including 823 registered voters. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Sunday through Thursday with 955 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 823 said they were registered to vote.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education.
 Residents of 21 political swing states were oversampled for analysis and then weighted to their proper share of the population.
 Based on the 2000 presidential vote, residents of heavily Republican counties, heavily Democratic counties and politically competitive counties were weighted to their proper share of the population.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
 For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Views on the War in Iraq''Looking back, do you think the United States did the right thing in taking military action against Iraq, or should the U.S. have stayed out?Graph tracks percentage of those who answered right thing or stayed out since December 2003.How would you say things are going for the U.S. in its efforts to bring stability and order to Iraq? Would you say things are going very well, somewhat well, somewhat badly or very badly?Graph tracks percentage of those who answered very well or somewhat well and very badly or somewhat badly since May 2003.Responses of ''don't know'' or ''no answer'' are not shown.Based on nationwide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. Latest results are based on telephone interviews conducted July 11 through 15 with 955 respondents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); STATISTICS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Public Opinion; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Richard W Stevenson; Janet Elder; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004



336 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 7420 words

HEADLINE: Office Messes

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
When Vivienne Sales finally broke her silence, she did so loudly, losing her temper in the hushed library where she worked. It was August 2003, and she had been hanging on to her job as a reference librarian by the most fragile of threads. For more than a year her supervisors at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Ariz., had been warning her that she was sometimes sloppy and inaccurate. She was late for work too often, they said. She didn't dress neatly and appropriately. Her desk was always a mess.
 Sales knew all this. She also knew why. Three years earlier, when she was 36, she was told she had attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder. (That's the full name of the condition, and while its initials are technically a.d.h.d., not all who have it exhibit the hyperactivity symptoms, so it is often referred to conversationally as simply A.D.D.) The news was a relief because it seemed to explain everything -- why she rarely seemed to fit into a workplace, why she left nine different jobs in 1999 alone, why, despite two master's degrees and years of dogged hard work, she never seemed to get anywhere. 
 Although the diagnosis was illuminating, Sales was determined to keep her condition to herself. ''Work isn't like school, where they have to give you more time on the tests'' if you have A.D.D., she explained. ''In the real world, if you tell during the interview, they won't hire you. And if you tell after you're hired, they can fire you.''
 That's not a precise reading of the law, but it is an accurate reading of the stigma, and of the dilemma that will probably become more common in the coming years. First there was A.D.D. in children, and the debate over whether too many are being medicated for what is arguably normal behavior. Now that conversation has widened to include adults. Psychiatrists used to assure parents that A.D.D. was something their children would outgrow, but more recent research shows that the disorder is longer-lasting than originally thought. A.D.D. does not develop in adulthood, but neither does it always disappear after childhood.
 Instead, up to 60 percent of children with A.D.D. grow up to be adults who still have A.D.D., and experts estimate that more than eight million grown-ups in the United States have the disorder. These numbers, presented by researchers from Harvard and the World Health Organization at the annual meeting of the American Psychiatric Association this spring, mean that attention-deficit disorder affects 4.4 percent of the adult population, making it the second-most-common psychological problem in adults after depression. 
 A mere 15 percent of those eight million actually know they have A.D.D., however, and they have learned that fact recently -- within the last decade, give or take -- because psychiatric textbooks didn't even recognize adult A.D.D. as an official diagnosis until 1987. Now that A.D.D. is an accepted part of the psychiatric repertory, however, doctors are seeing a surge in adults looking for a label for their lifelong restlessness. And just as the rise in the number of children given a diagnosis of A.D.D. brought measurable change to the world of education, the wave of adults with the same constellation of quirks and needs is affecting the world of work.
 ''A.D.D. makes work more complicated,'' said Harold Meyer, whose organization, the A.D.D. Resource Center, in Manhattan, advises both employers and employees on how to manage the condition in the workplace. Already employers are expected to be exquisitely sensitive -- granting maternity, paternity and adoption leave; subsidizing programs for weight loss and smoking cessation; providing domestic-partner benefits; adapting physical space for every category of handicap; allowing for flextime, telecommuting and job sharing. Adding yet another responsibility -- and particularly for a syndrome whose symptoms look suspiciously like bad work habits -- creates some skepticism. Meyer is regularly invited to address large companies, and whenever there are ''15 or 20 managers in a room, they all think they have employees with A.D.D., and they don't know what to do about it,'' he said. ''They want to help. But they also ask: 'Is it real? Or an excuse?''' 
 Cheryl Moreno, a manager of human resources at Embry-Riddle, who has spent months working with Vivienne Sales, trying to save her job, said she feels the same tug -- a desire to do the right thing mixed with frustration. ''We're feeling our way here,'' she said. ''Years ago this wasn't on the radar. Now we're seeing more of it. There's a climate here for helping people with impairments,'' she continued, ''but sometimes the impairments are too great.''
 It was Moreno, in fact, who inadvertently led Sales to reveal her diagnosis last summer. Sales's job description included being backup for the specialist in charge of interlibrary loans, but she said she felt shaky in that role and had been told during her training for it that she had an ''accuracy problem.'' As it happened, Moreno needed to borrow a book from another library, and she came in on a day when the interlibrary-loan specialist was out. Sales said she is certain that she entered that request into the computer and also printed out a copy for the specialist's records. But when Moreno returned to pick up her book a few weeks later, it wasn't there. Neither was the paperwork, nor any record in the computer.
 What resulted was a heated argument between Sales and the specialist who ran interlibrary loans. It ended with Sales sending a memo to her supervisor saying that she had a ''documented disability'' and was requesting an ''accommodation plan.'' 
 ''My decision to come out of the closet was one of desperation,'' Sales told me. When she speaks, her head darts in a nervous, birdlike way, her eyes magnified behind glasses that constantly slide down her nose. ''The library director was ready to let me go,'' she said. ''I was playing the a.d.h.d. card.''
On the third floor of the New York Helmsley Hotel, in the red-carpeted Knickerbocker Suite, a steady stream of adults sat at long, cloth-draped tables and filled out a short six-question form. ''How often do you have trouble wrapping up the final details of a project, once the challenging parts have been done?'' the questionnaire asked. ''How often do you have difficulty getting things in order when you have to do a task that requires organization?''
 ''How often do you have problems remembering appointments or obligations?'' it continued. Then: ''When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do you avoid or delay getting started?'' And: ''How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you have to sit down for a long time?'' Finally: ''How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like you were driven by a motor?''
 The participants answered in gradations, from ''Never'' to ''Very Often.'' When they finished, they met one on one with staff members from the Adult a.d.h.d. Program at New York University, who were there to tell them whether they were, as one counselor put it, very good candidates for a.d.h.d. Between 8:30 a.m. and 3:45 p.m. on this weekday in May, about 450 people registered for the screening. Of those who took the test, 85 percent were found to be at high risk for the disorder.
 ''That's far higher than in the population at large,'' said Dr. Lenard Adler, the associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine. ''This is a self-selecting group, and they came here in the first place because they were highly suspicious that they have this.''
 What Adler was saying is this: Yes, the numbers from this screening are high, but final determinations, the real diagnoses, are not made willy-nilly; everyone who loses his keys once in a while or drives off with the coffee cup on the roof of the car does not have a syndrome. The reason Adler makes his point so carefully is that he understands that many people, whether they say so outright or not, have a sneaking suspicion that A.D.D. is little more than spaciness redefined as disease.
 ''You can't see it, you can't touch it, there's no litmus test for it,'' said Dr. John Ratey, co-author (with Dr. Edward Hallowell) of ''Driven to Distraction,'' which, when it was published in 1994, brought adult A.D.D. to a mainstream audience for the first time. ''It's a spectrum diagnosis. There's no real test for depression either, but we accept that people are depressed. There are no real tests for a lot of things.'' 
 What is different about A.D.D., though, is that its symptoms are a cluster of behaviors that nearly every human has at some point: forgetfulness, disorganization and restlessness, along with the seemingly incongruous ability to focus intensely on one task to the exclusion of everything else. It is that very familiarity that breeds a level of contempt. So researchers like Adler and Ratey spend a lot of time explaining the difference between A.D.D. and run-of-the-mill messiness.
 For starters, there are the physical differences. ''Brain scans show a difference in prefrontal cortex glucose metabolism in people with a.d.h.d. compared to control groups,'' said Dr. David W. Goodman, assistant professor in the psychiatry and behavioral sciences department at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. ''And dopamine receptor density is greater in a.d.h.d. brains. Also, volumetric changes. In general, a.d.h.d. brains are smaller. If you have a patient do a color/word sorting test, a.d.h.d. lights up in a different area of the brain than non-a.d.h.d. The hard-wiring of the a.d.h.d. brain is different.''
 Then there is the genetic evidence. ''If your child has it,'' Adler said, ''there's a 40 percent chance that a parent has it. If a parent has it, there's a 50 percent chance that a child will.''
 These tendencies are not diagnoses, however. Brain imaging and genetics aside, A.D.D. really exists only if it affects your life. ''What makes this real is the impairments,'' said Dr. Margaret Weiss, director of the a.d.h.d. clinic at the Children's and Women's Health Center in Vancouver, British Columbia. ''There is a tremendous difference between having some of the qualities and having the disorder. What we are talking about here is chronic, it's prevalent, it causes severe impairment.''
 In other words, doctors know it when they see it. And what they see is a cohort of people who ping-pong from career to career and job to job; who are dynamite salesmen but who never fill out expense accounts; who look like workaholics because they are at their desks until midnight, but only because they don't really start to concentrate until panic sets in at 11 p.m.; who are creative geniuses but forget to bring the data to meetings.
 I've seen it, too, in recent months, while doing the research for this article. The interviews have been qualitatively different from those I have done with any other group in 20 years of reporting. The conversations could not be kept on track; the people I spoke to jumped from one subject to the next. And they were longer than most interviews I usually do, because the subjects were unusually animated, articulate and chatty. 
 They arrived late. They fidgeted while we talked. They started to ask questions but forgot where they were headed. They kept saying, ''One more thing,'' until I learned to be blunt to the point of rude in my goodbyes. One woman sent me long, bursting e-mail messages, sometimes several of them a day, one of which literally ended, ''running off to my next projecttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt zoommmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm!'' One man called me on my cellphone at 8 on a Saturday night because he thought of a question he had to ask. He would not be deterred, even when I told him I couldn't really talk because I was visiting my father in the hospital. Robert Tudisco, a lawyer whose A.D.D. was not diagnosed until he was an adult and who now represents clients with the disorder, tried to explain how it feels to live inside an A.D.D. brain. ''As I sit here and talk to you in a relatively calm conversation,'' he said, ''there's an amusement park going on in my head.'' 
 But even once you come to accept the reality of A.D.D., the question lingers, Why now? If A.D.D. is a function of biology as old as humankind, then why this growing clamor for diagnosis at this particular moment? One answer is that medical diagnoses ebb and flow with the times. Looked at through that lens, Western society seems ripe for this disorder. Now is a time when diagnosis can lead to action -- not only are there more medications to treat A.D.D., but Americans are arguably more willing to take pills to change their temperament. Also, other eras provided more jobs for people who needed to move and do rather than sit and think -- more jobs in factories, on farms, in door-to-door sales. Go even further back, and there were adventurers and pioneers. Today we sit at desks, in cubicles, staring at screens.
 Add to this the fact that the support systems that disguised disorganization for some people at work have eroded. ''People wouldn't suffer the effects of A.D.D. if they could have the classic executive secretary who would proof their expense accounts and keep their calendars and get them to meetings,'' Ratey said. ''If I were to create an environment that is bad for A.D.D., it would be today's typical office.'' 
 Ratey is the first to agree with what he sees as the ''general public's belief'' that A.D.D. is probably overdiagnosed, in children and in adults. But, like most in his field, he also says that it is simultaneously underdiagnosed. ''Yes, there are people who will throw this label at behavior that does not fit the criteria'' of the condition, he said. ''But there's no doubt that the condition is real. And the much bigger number is those who have it but have not been diagnosed.''
 A.D.D. looks different in adults than it does in children. There are two general categories of the disorder -- with and without hyperactivity -- and adults tend to exhibit the kind without. That may explain another difference as well. It was long thought that A.D.D. was primarily a disorder of boys (twice as many boys receive the diagnosis as girls), but psychiatrists like Adler are finding that the ratio of men to women in his adult clinic is a fairly even split.
 The most logical explanation for the discrepancy is that boys are much more likely to have the hyperactive form of A.D.D., and it is the children who are bouncing out of their seats in class who are most likely to be given the diagnosis. The subtler inattentive form is more common in girls, who may well appear spacey or disorganized through their school years but who underachieve quietly and don't disrupt the class. They hit the wall only when they reach adulthood and need to juggle the demands of life and work.
 Today's children -- or at least the ones who call enough attention to themselves -- may prove to be fortunate. Those whose condition is diagnosed early are armed with a modern arsenal of weapons, chemical and otherwise, and ''have spent their school years learning how to manage their A.D.D.,'' said Wilma Fellman, author of numerous books about A.D.D. and work. ''They have had the chance to become quite prepared.''
 Those whose conditions are diagnosed when they are adults, however, like Vivienne Sales, have no such preparation. They have to undo decades of damage, and do so while somehow holding on to a job. 
Carl Mandiola is 37, and he can list more than 50 jobs that he has run through in his working life. He has tended bar, served in the Air Force and been an e.m.t. He has sold Amway products, waterbeds, cookies, shoes and long-distance phone service. He has worked security at a supermarket, been a janitor in a medical lab, made pizza at a fast-food joint and assembled butyl rubber innards for compression tanks on a factory line. In all, he has been fired from a dozen jobs for poor performance and from a half-dozen more because he was downsized, and he left the rest because he became antsy and bored.
 For most of these years he had no label for this restlessness. But he called himself quite a number of names: lazy, loser, stupid. In his late 20's, however, he found a niche in the world of graphic design. He taught himself to do artwork on the computer in a style that is whimsical and bold. He landed a position at a small publishing house in Boston, creating invitations, advertisements and brochures. It was one of the few jobs he had ever had in which he was closely supervised (an advantage for most workers with A.D.D.) but also free to set his own hours (another advantage). ''I turned on at night,'' he said. ''That's when I got things done. All I needed was a good cup of coffee. All the distractions were gone.''
 Mandiola had been working at the publishing house for more than two years -- a personal record -- when he moved to New York to marry in early 2001. By then his field was changing rapidly, and cost-cutting meant that fewer people were expected to do more work with less
 direction. He found, and lost, several jobs that had neither the structure nor the flexibility he needed. ''I'm not a multitasker,'' he said, words that could be a slogan for A.D.D. ''I was used to one or two projects at a time, and they were working seven or eight projects, and they wanted it all done in a day.'' It was this crisis that led him to a psychiatrist and a diagnosis of A.D.D. Now unemployed and with a newborn son, he is thinking of leaving the design field entirely. He says he wants to become a real-estate investor. Or a television writer. 
 A.D.D. shows many faces in the workplace, but Mandiola's story includes the features prominent in most of them -- the choppy resume, the tendency to rise to a challenge in the beginning but to unravel as the work devolves from interesting to routine. True, changes in the world of work mean that a peripatetic work history has become more acceptable to potential employers, and while that does make it somewhat easier than it might otherwise be for workers with A.D.D. to get a job (at least in a good economy), it does not make it easier for them to keep one. A recent Roper poll of adults who identified themselves as having a.d.h.d. found that they held 5.4 jobs over the past 10 years, compared with 3.4 jobs for adults without the disorder. The same poll found that only 52 percent of adults with A.D.D. are currently employed, compared with 72 percent of unaffected adults.
 Vivienne Sales had an equally checkered work history. After graduating from Indiana University in 1986, she earned a master's degree in international studies from Ohio University. She then worked as a building inspector with the Indiana Department of Labor, did data entry for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, waited on tables at a Japanese restaurant and taught English in Korea. Few jobs lasted for more than a year. In 1999, she was fired from two technical-writing jobs within three months, then went on to leave seven part-time jobs and fail a four-week teacher-training course. 
 Near the end of 1999, she entered graduate school again, for a degree in library science. ''I'm good at finding information,'' she reasoned. She was also better at being a student than being an employee. She said she thinks the discipline of the classroom kept her on track. While she maintained a B average in the program, concern over her fractured career path led her to see a job counselor in July 2000.
 The trip to the counselor led to testing, which led to a diagnosis of A.D.D. (Like many others with the condition, Sales has other issues as well. As many as 50 percent of A.D.D. patients have another syndrome during their lifetime, most commonly depression, anxiety disorder, learning disabilities or bipolar disorder, Adler said. For Sales, the co-travelers were narcolepsy and dyslexia.) It was a diagnosis that brought both relief and regret. ''It explains so much,'' she said. ''Most people cannot believe that someone with three university degrees could be such a washout in the real world.''
 The first step after diagnosis is often medication. Drugs tend not to work without monitoring and therapy, Adler said, but he also finds that counseling alone is not enough. Psychiatrists like Adler compare A.D.D. medications to driving a car. It's easier than walking, but only if you know how to drive. Robert Tudisco (the lawyer with the amusement park in his brain) describes the role of medication this way: ''Before the drugs, I could walk through a room and I wouldn't even see it was a mess. With the drugs, I see it's a mess. It bothers me that it's a mess. I want to do something about it. So now I'm ready to learn how to clean it up.''
 Unlike nearly every other medicine on the market, A.D.D. treatments were first tested in children, because for decades it was not thought that they were needed for adults. Until very recently all these drugs were officially approved for A.D.D. only in those under 18 and were prescribed off-label for that purpose to anyone else.
 These drugs were stimulants, like Ritalin, and they were dispensed in dosages meant to get a child through a school day. Recently the pharmaceutical world began to develop new formulations designed to last longer -- particularly helpful in the workplace. At the end of 2002, the Food and Drug Administration approved the first medication specifically for use in adults. Atomoxetine, which is sold under the name Strattera, is not a stimulant, but a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, and it can last for a full day. Strattera has an additional advantage because it allows workers to do jobs -- machine or truck operator, for instance, or airplane pilot -- that could be dangerous under the influence of such stimulants.
 Even when drugs mitigate the symptoms of A.D.D., however, they rarely eliminate the complications of workplace interactions. At 50, Sealani Weiner has the typical wandering A.D.D. resume -- jobs in office administration, followed by jobs in sales, followed by her current profession, social work. In fact, she has struggled so much in her work life that she changed her name along the way. She became Sealani in 2002, in order to leave the failures of Cheryl Lani behind. 
 Weiner also battles depression and suffers from thyroid disease and diabetes. ''I think it's hysterical,'' she said, laughing (remarkably, she is often laughing), ''that it takes eight medications every day to make me feel normal.''
 A longtime New Yorker, she moved to New Mexico seven years ago and went through five jobs there in the next six years. Since 2003, she has worked as a social worker for an area hospice and part time at a psychiatric hospital. Both jobs were at risk shortly after she began.
 Her supervisor at the hospice found her difficult to work with and worried about her effect on families. ''It was hard for Sealani to focus,'' said Karen Newcom, who became Weiner's boss last summer. ''She'd come in and tell me she wanted to talk to me. She'd end up going in five or six directions. She couldn't decide what was the most important thing to talk about. She was just taking so much of my time. More so than any other employee.''
 It didn't take Newcom long to decide that Weiner was creating other problems at work. ''She's in hospice,'' Newcom said. ''She's dealing with families in crisis. She was supposed to calm them down. I know the effect she was having on me, and I can't see how she would be very helpful.''
 One of the myriad wrinkles of A.D.D. is impulsivity. In Weiner's case this shows up in her tendency to speak before stopping to think. In one staff meeting at a previous job, for instance, she voiced the opinion that a patient about to be released from the hospital ''won't pay attention to anything anyone says, and we should just let him drink himself to death.'' In another meeting: ''I said a patient was a bitch. It was true, and everyone knew it was true, but I was fired for it.'' 
 The fallout from similar behavior in her current job sent her in tears to the therapist who had diagnosed her disorder. She met with a psychopharmacologist the next day and left that appointment with a prescription for Strattera. She had resisted taking medication until then, she said, feeling that she was already taking so much for her other medical conditions. But she started on this newest pill, she said, ''to save my job.''
 She did not immediately mention that choice to anyone at work, but Newcom said she noticed a change within days. ''Out of nowhere she started coming into my office and was more focused,'' Newcom told me. ''I commented to her that I had seen a change, and that's when she told me about the A.D.D. and the medication.''
 As Weiner described it, Strattera slows her frenetic brain. ''I've gone from 100 miles per hour to 80 miles per hour, which is still way faster than anyone I know,'' she said. ''I feel calmer inside. Instead of darting from one thing to the next and never finishing anything, I can take on one thing at a time.'' Which does not mean that she has become a shy and circumspect employee: medication addresses A.D.D. symptoms; it does not transform personality. In the year since she began taking medication, Weiner has been written up for ''inappropriate comments.'' But she said she feels victorious nonetheless, knowing what her bosses don't -- that many times she followed the advice of her therapist and did not ''fly off the handle.'' Instead, she waited 24 hours and used that time to role-play a more measured response with her husband. 
 So far she has managed to save her hospice job. ''If she had not gone on medication, she would have put her job in jeopardy,'' Newcom said. But she acted too late to keep her part-time position at the psychiatric hospital, where both patients and staff members have complained about her rudeness. ''I think before I went on meds, I burned my bridges there,'' Weiner said. When the time came for her annual review this spring, she said, she was taken aside by a supervisor and told that it would be best if she resigned. So she quit before she could be fired.
In this litigious age, where suits are brought over the temperature of a cup of coffee, you would expect a flood of employees with A.D.D. seeking job protection under the law. Yet, at best, there is barely a trickle. 
 ''There's no landmark case,'' said Patricia Latham, who, with her husband, Peter Latham, is the author of a series of seminal books on disabilities and the law. The message sent by the scattered cases that do exist, she said, is not encouraging to others who might think of bringing more. 
 A.D.D. can be covered under the Americans With Disabilities Act, as well as state antidiscrimination laws. But those who try to prove they have been discriminated against because of their A.D.D. must show that they are highly debilitated by their disorder yet still capable of doing their jobs if their employer would provide ''reasonable accommodations.'' In short, plaintiffs must walk the tightrope of all disability employment law. ''You have to be substantially impaired,'' Latham said, ''but not so impaired that you do not qualify for your job in the first place.''
 That narrow line is why more than 90 percent of cases brought by employees under the A.D.A. ''are not won,'' Latham estimated. That statistic includes all disabilities, she added, and does not account for the additional, intangible hurdles faced by workers with hidden syndromes like A.D.D.
 Ours is a society in which excuses are inexcusable. Over the generations we have learned tolerance for some disabilities, but mostly those that we can see. Quirks in the wiring of the mind still generate very little sympathy. If you are missing a limb, I understand that you can't do the same job as I can without help. If you are chronically late for work, however, I am much less likely to understand why you can't try harder to be on time. It doesn't feel wrong to dismiss someone for disorganization, or laziness, or a brusque manner with customers. In fact, it feels right. 
 Taking A.D.D. to court, therefore, is often an uphill battle. Unless there is some clear evidence of discrimination -- glowing reviews that turn negative immediately after the boss is told a worker has A.D.D., for instance -- there isn't much chance of prevailing under the A.D.A., said John Beranbaum, a plaintiff's attorney who specializes in disability law. Employees who are not given reasonable accommodations have some recourse, but the definition of reasonable is limited under the law and does not involve changing the essential job description. Those who counsel A.D.D. employees, therefore, often advise them not to bother with the courts. ''I get calls saying, 'I need to come in late, and my boss won't let me, can I sue?''' said Harold Meyer, who, in addition to advising companies and employees on A.D.D.-friendly workplace strategies, is chairman of the New York City chapter of Children and Adults With Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, known as Chadd. ''I tell them, 'You can sue, but you won't win.'''
 In short, the realm of work is a universe away from the realm of education for those with A.D.D. In the public-school system, a child's diagnosis is like an admission ticket; districts are obligated to help students whose learning is impaired by their A.D.D. In the world of work, the burden is on the A.D.D. employee to help himself. 
 That did not stop Vivienne Sales from asking her employer for help. The day after her argument over the interlibrary-loan request, she sent a memo to her supervisor. It read, ''I have the following documented disabilities that require accommodation,'' then listed her A.D.D., followed by her accompanying diagnoses. ''I am requesting a 504 accommodation plan,'' the memo continued, using the language of disability law, which she had looked up on the Internet.
 That first memo was followed by a second one, two weeks later, addressed to Cheryl Moreno, the manager of human resources, whose book request had been lost. 
 ''I need an accommodation to be able to perform my job duties because of a disability,'' Sales wrote, and she went on to explain what steps she had already taken on her own:
 ''Using two different day planners. One is left at work; the other is always with me. Each day at work, I compare the entries in both day planners to make sure I do not have any scheduling conflicts.
 ''Create tracking charts for projects. I use tracking charts to keep track of the . . . seminars that I present for the semester.
 ''Using a small microcassette recorder, I record items that need to be done for the next day. Then I play back the tape and write down what I have said into my day planners.
 ''Using flex-scheduling to go to counseling and doctor appointments. I make up my time by working late.''
 But these strategies alone were not enough, she wrote in her memo, and she told Moreno what else she would need: 
 ''Educating my co-workers about my condition so they will get a better understanding of it.
 ''Having set deadlines on when projects should be completed.
 ''Giving weekly progress reports to my supervisor. In turn my supervisor checks on my progress on a weekly or biweekly basis.''
 She sent the memo via interoffice mail. Then she waited to be fired. 
Ayana Kee did not walk into Jennifer Koretsky's office on a recent spring day, so much as she swept in, radiating exuberance and energy. Kee is a second-grade teacher -- by all accounts the kind you would want your child to have. Koretsky is her A.D.D. coach. Their twice-weekly sessions are rivets in the infrastructure that is rising within the world of adults suffering from A.D.D. 
 Kee settled herself on the couch across from Koretsky and started to explain that she loves her job, loves teaching children. But while all the other teachers are gone by 4:30, after an eight-hour workday, Kee is sometimes there until 7. ''The custodian tells me I have to leave because he has to mop the floors,'' she said. Then she brings a satchel of materials home and works until bedtime.
 The two women spent the rest of the session mapping out a time-management plan for Kee. ''Let's look at some things you can take off your plate,'' Koretsky said. ''It's not like you have an assistant you can delegate to, but what you do have are kids in the classroom. How much of the classroom management can go to them?''
 Kee's eyes widened. She had never thought of this.
 ''Everything in your class is already clearly labeled, right?'' Koretsky asked.
 ''It is, it is,'' Kee answered.
 ''And the children like to help, right?''
 ''Oh, yes, they do,'' Kee said, and she was off and running. ''The books in the classroom library are labeled on the back to show what baskets they go in. They can put the books away. They can put away the crayons and pencils and things that I am forever cleaning up after they are gone. I can make a list of all the possible jobs within the classroom. We already have a daily job board. I can also make an afternoon job board, and each afternoon we could stop and take just a few minutes to do those. I have 19 students. If we spent 10 minutes. . . . I just thought of a job! Museum curator! They could help me set up the boards where their work is displayed.''
 ''So this idea sounds like it would work?'' Koretsky asked.
 ''It's a plan,'' Kee said.
 Coaches are not therapists. They are either self-taught or, like Koretsky, they are graduates of places like the A.D.D. Coach Academy, which charges $3,695 for a nine-month curriculum taught over the phone and online. ''Coaches concentrate on what, how and when, never why,'' said Nancy Ratey, a nonstop whirlwind who helped create this field from scratch as a roundabout way of managing her own a.d.h.d. Married to John Ratey, co-author of ''Driven to Distraction,'' she coaches from her home, which is covered, bedrooms to boiler room, with notes reminding her to close this door, leave that one open, plan a vacation, fix the garage door. 
 Unlike Koretsky, who meets with Kee in person once a week (and again by telephone or e-mail that same week), Ratey does nearly all of her coaching by phone. She has coached clients as far away as Moscow and as close as across town without ever seeing them, charging up to $400 an hour for her services. Ratey takes 15 clients at a time, and she describes them as a mix of executives, professors, lawyers, doctors and authors. One attorney called her because his secretary threatened to quit unless he found himself a coach. One chronically late advertising executive asked Ratey to train his administrative assistant to check on his preparation progress every 15 minutes. Ratey has instructed assistants to ask the boss to empty his pockets of all accumulated business cards when he returns from meetings and to take the boss's car keys until important reports are finished. 
 (Permit me a detour here, since detours are certainly fitting for this story. My favorite adaptive strategy was used by Robert Tudisco. His son was enrolled in a preschool directly across the street from his law office. Yet every afternoon, Tudisco arrived late for pickup. Tudisco tried everything he could think of to get himself out the door on time -- reminders on his watch, his computer, his Palm Pilot, his alarm clock -- and then he noticed that his paralegal, whose workday stopped at 5, always left precisely on time. So he told her ''that she wasn't allowed to walk out the door without me,'' even if she needed to physically yank him from his chair.)
 Most often, though, it is the A.D.D.-afflicted individual, not the support staff, who signs up for coaching. While the coach's role is technically to help with the day-to-day mechanics of work, most coaches find themselves advising clients on less concrete problems, like whether their particular job, and even their entire profession, is a good fit. It is accepted wisdom in A.D.D. circles that certain types of work are a nightmare for those with A.D.D. (accounting comes to mind) and that others are virtual magnets for those with the condition: sales, contracting, waitressing, hairdressing -- any job that involves chatting and moving around. Stock trading, acting, law enforcement, emergency medicine -- any job that runs on adrenaline and deadline. Journalism is thought to be full of people with A.D.D., doctors and coaches tell me. (Yes, I took the screening test. I have many of the tendencies, but not the disorder.) Entrepreneurs with A.D.D. often thrive as well, but only if they have a partner who is good at paperwork.
 Unfortunately for Vivienne Sales, librarian is not on the list. And yet, it is what she most wants to be.
 Sales was not dismissed after her argument in the library last summer. Instead, she found an unexpected advocate in Cheryl Moreno. The h.r. manager said she believed that the rules would have permitted the library to dismiss Sales until the moment Sales declared that she had a disibility. At that point the rules change. ''The median cost of accommodations for impaired employees is $240,'' Moreno said, quoting a statistic in vogue at human-resource conferences. ''So we tried to help.''
 In Sales's case, the help cost more than $240 and came in the form of a job coach whose $100-per-hour services were paid for by the university. Finding such a coach in Prescott, Ariz., took most of last autumn, and it was not until the end of last year that Sales began working with Evelyn Larriba, a vocational specialist from the West Yavapai Guidance Clinic who was not specifically trained to work with adults with A.D.D. but who brought up a grandson who has the condition.
 During January and February, Larriba met with Sales at the library. Their work started with her desk, which took two hours to straighten up. Then they tackled her time management, dividing Sales's workload into sections and creating interim timetables. That worked when it came to ordering her quota of graphic novels, which she finished on time, but was not quite as successful when it came to reviewing periodicals for the library's collection. Despite a detailed template, the first batch of reviews that Sales turned in were handwritten, and her boss had to advise her to type them up on the computer. Larriba said she has never seen a client work harder. ''You couldn't ask for anyone who is more dedicated to doing a good job,'' Larriba said of Sales. ''She tried desperately hard.''
 Once a month, Sales met with her supervisor, Evelyn Harris, to discuss her progress. The portrait painted in Harris's memos is one of incredible determination and effort but only incremental change. Harris said that both she and Sales were determined to make it work. ''I approached Vivienne's training as I would with a brand-new person,'' Harris said. ''We agreed we would start from ground zero and build.''
 In the January report, Sales was chided for missing a deadline for a student newspaper because of a computer problem; missing a meeting because she forgot, despite three e-mail reminders; and missing a day of work because she forgot to take her medication. She failed to straighten the library bulletin board where students post ''for sale'' and ''for rent'' notices. She yawned through an entire meeting, without covering her mouth, leading Harris to reprimand her for ''unprofessional behavior.'' 
 ''From our discussion today and the list of things that are not getting done, I feel that you are not multitasking,'' Harris wrote. ''You focus on one or two projects and ignore the other daily/weekly tasks that need to be done on an ongoing basis. You will work with Evelyn Larriba during the next two weeks on time-management skills and prioritizing techniques.''
A startling fact about the world of A.D.D. is the number of people who are grateful for the disorder, who consider it the best part of themselves. David Neeleman, for instance, the founder of JetBlue Airways, has said that he will not take medication for his A.D.D., fearing that it would make him just like everybody else. 
 ''It's the source of my creativity and my drive,'' echoed Thomas Apple, who was given a diagnosis about seven years ago, when he was in his early 40's, and went on to create the world's largest video display for stock market quotations. ''You can think outside the box because you're not in a box.''
 ''A.D.D. is the greatest thing that happened to me,'' said Sam Grossman, who became a partner in the Albert Corporation, a real-estate company based in Brookline, Mass., two years ago, when he was 22. ''I wish I could hire four or five people like me with A.D.D.,'' he said. ''The impulsivity that comes with this means I can walk into a building, see things an ordinary person wouldn't see and act on my gut right away.''
 Even the slim chance that such success is possible kept Sales going. ''I see things in ways that other people don't,'' she said. As an example, she told me about how another librarian happened to mention that a copy of the ''Seabiscuit'' dvd was missing. That same morning, Sales happened to pass the interlibrary-loan shelf and was distracted by a glimpse of something out of place. It was the wayward dvd.
 At about the same time, Sales was training students to enter information in a database of aviation-themed periodicals. It was boring, repetitive work -- year, month, volume number, titles, features, keywords -- and Sales hated it. While trying to find new books for the collection, Sales accidentally found herself not in her library's database but in a commercial one that included almost exactly the same information. ''Our project was reinventing the wheel,'' she said. ''Other companies were already doing this work.'' So she wrote a memo (on the computer, not by hand) and presented it to her boss, practically giddy at her efficiency. 
 She told her coach these two stories over and over, certain they would save her job. Success, however, is a matter of perspective, and what Sales saw as victory, Larriba saw merely as what others do effortlessly every day. She did not share that with Sales, however, letting her client savor the feeling of accomplishment. 
 ''That memo was my best work,'' Sales remembered. ''It only had one typo.''
Sales's determination to do the job right was certainly noticed. There was praise in her next evaluation.
 ''Your presentation was well organized, your PowerPoint slides were effective and your personal demeanor was professional,'' Harris wrote in March. (Larriba had advised Sales on her outfit, double-checking that it was pressed.) ''That was very good.''
 But there was criticism too -- and a tone that sounded like a boss building a paper trail. Sales was cited for lapses that she says she suspected would not be held against any of her co-workers. It gave her the feeling that she couldn't win, no matter how hard she might try. By April, it was clear that the fight was over. Sales was told that she had taken too much time with too little result preparing a display for Black History Month and too little time updating the library's emergency and disaster manuals. She had introduced items in meetings that were not on the agenda. She had recommended the purchase of books without realizing that the library had already ordered them. She had recommended the purchase of electronic devices without first conferring with the electronic-services librarian. (''Your response when I questioned your recommendation was, 'Whoops!''') 
 This final evaluation came with an attached list of available positions elsewhere in the university. Of those, seven required advanced training or degrees that Sales did not have, one was a part-time slot in the copying center and one was interlibrary-loan specialist, the job that started all the trouble in the first place. After reading the list, Sales went home and lay in bed with an ice pack on her head. 
 As a part of Sales's severance package, she received 16 hours with her vocational coach, and Larriba spent much of that time discouraging Sales from applying for jobs that involved too much multitasking or would require her to relocate. Sales said she thinks a move to another state, or even another country, might provide a clean slate and a new start; Larriba said she thinks a move would be nothing but overwhelming.
 ''You have to ask yourself, Are you running to something or are you running away from something?'' the coach told her client. ''You can't run away from A.D.D.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: WORKING OVERTIME: Ayana Kee loves teaching second grade so much, she can't seem to leave the classroom.
SOME KIND OF NORMAL: Vocational coaching and medication can help people like Vivienne Sales, left, and Sealani Weiner function better in the world.
 PERIPATETIC PAST: Like many A.D.D. sufferers, Carl Mandiola has held numerous jobs -- more than 50 in his case. (Photograph by Alessandra Petlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (85%); PSYCHIATRY (85%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder

COMPANY: EMBRY-RIDDLE AERONAUTICAL UNIVERSITY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%) World Health Organization

PERSON: Lisa Belkin

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



337 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: How a Technology Gap Helped China Win Jobs

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
CHINA is challenging India as a low-cost home for software development. In the process, says Dale L. Fuller, president and chief executive of Borland Software in Scotts Valley, Calif., the technology industry is becoming ever more globalized. Following are excerpts from a conversation with him:

Q. Is India still the country where Western companies look when they outsource technology work?
 So they are closing the gap. They will catch up. They are three to five years away.
 Q. Are software development jobs moving from the United States to these other places, or are companies adding positions offshore?

A. Over the 2001-03 time frame, we saw a significant decrease in the head count within U.S. organizations because of cost controls. I don't believe those jobs are coming back. There are clearly not as many developers employed in the U.S. today as there were three years ago. But you have to remember that if there are 600,000 or 700,000 very well-trained staffers in India, that still pales in comparison with the almost three million jobs in North America.

Q. Isn't some of this work too complicated to be outsourced or offshored?

A. Yes, the environments are more complex.

Q. What do you mean by that?

A. That means there are multiple platforms, or different kinds of computer systems, and they have to work together. It's a lot more complex. The notion that you can make all that work well together by taking your secret sauce and giving it to someone else just doesn't make sense.

Q. Is the American educational system doing a good job of producing the caliber of workers that technology companies need?

A. We have an amazing educational system, by far head and shoulders above anywhere else. The unfortunate part of that is that while it attracts talent from all over the world -- people fight to get into our universities -- most graduates with engineering degrees are foreign nationals and they don't stay here. One of our biggest exports is the education of our competitors.


A. It is clear today that India has the leadership, in terms of market share, for software development and outsourcing. The reason for that is that they had an early jump start. They began by being more Westernized and having more English speakers. A lot of guys who came over here from their institutes of technology and got trained here have now gone back. A lot of the start-ups during the Internet bubble were Indian, and a lot of the resources here in Silicon Valley were the holders of H-1B visas, who also transferred back after the bubble burst.

Q. But the Chinese are catching up?

A. Over the past couple of years, we've seen China really put the pressure on by bringing their skills sets up. They have the language barrier. But their president made the statement that everyone will be speaking English within 20 years. They're making some really big strides.

Q. What do the Japanese think about China's emergence?

A. Being in Japan recently, what I saw were quite a few of the systems integrators, such as NEC, Fujitsu and Hitachi, beginning to open very large outsourcing contracts with China, not India.

Q. Is it a question of costs, or do Chinese workers have some skills that are in particular demand?

A. China is a little bit lower-cost than India. But I don't think that will last for long. Both countries have what we would classify, over the next 10 to 20 years, as inexhaustible sources of human capital.

Q. Are both countries basically in the business of writing code, or of something more sophisticated than that?

A. Between the two cultures, there are some distinct differences. One is that we see more and more services going into India, the complete service, everything from consulting services to a full customer center where you have your phone systems set up with people answering them. It's all tied together. Having been established for a while, the Indians have a methodology and a process that's very familiar to those of us in the Western world. China hasn't really used that and is just now beginning to adopt it.

Q. Does China's very different political system help it compete against India?

A. China does have a lot more resources subsidized by the government. For example, it is doing something unique to accelerate its ability to compete against India. They are publishing a list of the authorized software that any Chinese-sponsored agency or company that is subsidized can buy. If you want to do business in China, you have to have a development arm in China to build your applications or your software. China is using their muscle to say, ''Hey, Mr. Microsoft, or Hey, Mr. Borland, if you want to sell to our companies or our government, you have to be based here.'' That will accelerate China's growth.

Q. Does China have any other advantages?

A. India has processes and methodology from the 90's. It's old. China gets to look at all the mistakes of the Indian outsourcers and learn from them. And China gets to use the new technology that we and others have developed over the past year, but India is handicapped. China did the exact same thing with wireless technology. They were so far behind that they said: ''We're not going to lay copper lines all over China. We're going to go wireless.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (84%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (61%); MARKET SHARE (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) INDIA (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



338 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: On Any Given Day: Parity, or at Least Something Like It, Has Arrived

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
PARITY.
 ''What's parity?'' Hank Blalock, the Texas third baseman, said.
 ''Not a bad word,'' Commissioner Bud Selig said.
 To answer Blalock's question, parity, in its simplest definition, means equality. To Selig, parity means competitive balance and evidence that Major League Baseball's new economy with revenue sharing and payroll tax is working. 
 When the season resumed last week, 12 teams -- 5 in the American League, 7 in the National -- were involved in four division races in which the teams were no more than a two and a half games apart. The presence of so many teams in those races, not to mention the crowded races for the two wild-card spots, prompted the notion that parity, like it or not, had arrived in baseball, for this season at least. 
 Selig, for one, believes that parity has arrived, and he is delighted that it has.
 ''I've always been an admirer of Pete Rozelle,'' he said. ''What he did in 1961 produced the great theory about on any given Sunday. I have always believed my job as commissioner is to produce hope and faith in as many places as possible. We had a system that spiraled out of control in the early to mid-90's.''
 The economic steps baseball has taken in recent years, Selig believes, have restored competitive balance and given weaker teams a chance to get strong.
 ''No question the revenue sharing and the payroll tax are major factors at work,'' he said. ''I don't know how many people have said we wouldn't be where we are today if it wasn't for revenue sharing.'' 
 Gene Orza, chief operating officer of the players union, wasn't so quick to attribute the season's developments to parity, saying that baseball is cyclical and that this season might just represent a different cycle. He recalled the unusual 2000 season when no team won 60 percent of its games and no team lost 40 percent of its games.
 That season, however, did not come close to this one for close races. At the All-Star Game break in 2000, only three teams, all in the American League East, were bunched in no more than a two-and-a-half-game spread, compared with 12 teams this year. 
 But Curt Schilling, the Boston pitcher, also cited the cyclical explanation. 
 ''We're seeing a season where some of the philosophies behind putting a team together are changing,'' he said. ''What constitutes a good team and good players? Those theories are changing now. More teams are buying into the same theories and putting together similar clubs.''
 Spending disparity will continue, Schilling added, ''but the teams like the Oakland A's who can do what the Yankees do with $130 million less are going to compete year in and year out.''
 Jason Giambi, who played for Oakland before joining the Yankees, cited the Athletics as a good example of the change in competitive balance.
 ''Teams are doing a better job of cultivating their young players,'' he said. ''In Oakland they've turned over their team. We had the great players McGwire, Stewart, Eckersley. Then those guys turned over and we went the young route. We took a beating for a few years. Then all of a sudden we turned it around, and they're still winning.''
 The Minnesota Twins are another example, Giambi said.
 ''The Twins have done it with young players,'' he said. ''Make a trade here, make a trade there, and you get a guy like Shannon Stewart. Now they have a chance to win every year.''
 When the season resumed, Pittsburgh was the only National League Central team under .500. That didn't prevent Pirates shortstop Jack Wilson from appreciating the development.
 ''They've done a good job because there's a lot more competitiveness,'' he said. ''It seems like every team we play in the division is a good team.''
 Barry Larkin, the Cincinnati veteran of 18 years, said: ''There's definitely some competitive balance. I think you're seeing the large-market clubs coming down and small-market clubs coming up, and you're getting some good competition. I think that has a lot to do with scouting and with people spending their money more wisely.''
 The way San Francisco pitcher Jason Schmidt sees it, ''The second half is going to be really interesting; it's going to bring the game to a new level for the fans and the players.''
 But the veteran pitcher Tom Glavine of the Mets expressed a cautionary view. 
 ''I don't think you can get much better than this season has been,'' he said, but added, ''Whether or not it's going to be a consistent thing in baseball, we'll have to wait and see.''
 Glavine said he believed that economics were partly responsible for the developments, but also that some teams were overachieving and some were underachieving. He didn't offer examples, but the Phillies fit the underachieving role and the Mets the overachieving role.
 Todd Pratt, a Phillies backup catcher, doesn't necessarily agree with that characterization of the teams.
 ''I think the owners have done a good job,'' he said. ''Anybody who says they're not doesn't play the game.''
 And once told what parity was, Blalock said he thought it was here. 
 ''You see teams with really high payrolls doing well,'' he said, ''and you see teams with really low payrolls like ourselves doing well. So, I think it's pretty balanced.''
 Why has it happened? ''I have no idea,'' he said. ''I just go out and play hard. I don't know anything about the business side of it.'' 

Can't Leave Out the Tigers
 In a discussion here last week about teams that have played surprisingly well this season, the Detroit Tigers were inexplicably omitted. No team, in fact, has been more surprising. They reached the All-Star Game break with 42 victories in 87 games, only one fewer victory than they had in 162 games last season. 
 The Tigers had other statistics to support their surprising comeback. They went from a league-low .240 batting average to a league-best .283. They went from scoring an average of 3.65 runs a game to 5.36. They lowered their earned run average to 4.94 from 5.30.
 The only way the Tigers of 2004 have resembled the Tigers of 2003 is defensively. They committed the most errors and had the worst fielding average last season, and they have duplicated that effort this season.

The Randy Johnson Watch
 Randy Johnson was not thrilled last Monday to be mobbed by reporters at the All-Star players' session with the news media in Houston. They all wanted to know if he would accept a trade from the Arizona Diamondbacks, and he did his best to fend them off.
 ''I wanted to run away,'' he said the next day, ''but I knew I couldn't. I had to be accountable.''
 That was a rare, remarkable acknowledgement by an athlete.
 But while being accountable on Monday, Johnson, who has veto rights over a trade, finally said that he would accept a trade if the Diamondbacks wanted to trade him.
 ''Up to that point it was all media speculation,'' a Johnson confidant said. ''Randy originally didn't want to be traded. What was a remote possibility became a real possibility.''
 Although the Diamondbacks have approached six teams -- two in New York, two in Chicago, Boston and Anaheim -- Johnson apparently indicated that he would go only to a team with an extremely strong chance of winning the World Series. 
 As for the chances that the Diamondbacks will make a trade, they may have difficulty getting the kind of player package they want. The Yankees, for example, can afford to pay Johnson and give him the chance to pitch in the World Series, but they probably don't have the prospects Arizona wants.
 Nevertheless, if presented with the opportunity to save $23 million in salary for this year and next, the financially troubled Diamondbacks might accept lesser players and use the savings to sign players for next season.

Wood and Prior, Great in Theory
 With Kerry Wood and Mark Prior pitching in with the most help, the Chicago Cubs were supposed to win the National League Central this season. But Wood and Prior have started games in the same turn of the rotation only once, and Prior left that game in the second inning because of an ailing elbow. 
 Prior began the season on the disabled list and remained there until June 4. By that time Wood, too, was injured and out of the rotation, having last pitched on May 11, when he made his seventh start. Prior started seven times and would ordinarily have made his eighth start last Sunday, the final game before the All-Star Game break.
 But Wood was ready to return to work, and the Cubs wanted him to start a game before the break, so he pitched that last game instead. That left the first postbreak game for Prior, and he lasted only 36 pitches.

Another All-Star Dud
 Before the All-Star Game, Bud Selig spoke passionately about the link between the outcome of the game and the home-field advantage for the World Series. He raved about last year's game and how the players played it like the All-Star Games of his youth. Ed Goren, president of Fox Sports, raved, too. The link, they said, was the reason.
 Then the American League battered Roger Clemens for six runs in the first inning, and suddenly the game was devoid of passion, intensity and strategy. 
 Maybe Goren hasn't had enough experience with baseball, but Selig knows better. He knows very well that each game, whether it be in the regular season or in the World Series, or the All-Star Game, takes on its own life, and no artificial element will make a difference.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Hidalgo, above right, with Mike Cameron, has helped revive the Mets. Meanwhile, the Phillies and Pat Burrell, sliding at right against Atlanta, have not lived up to many sunny predictions. (Photos by above, Kathy Willens/Associated Press
right, Tim Shaffer/Reuters)
 Armando Benitez of the Marlins and Hee Seop Choi celebrated a recent victory over the Mets. (Photo by Eliot J. Schechter/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%) Atlanta Braves; Philadelphia Phillies; Florida Marlins; New York Mets; Detroit Tigers

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



339 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Making More Pays Less

BYLINE: By RICHARD V. BURKHAUSER. 
Richard V. Burkhauser is the chairman of the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
ALL of us can agree that people who play by the rules and work hard should not live in poverty. On the surface, it would seem that raising the minimum wage paid to workers would help them out. But statistics tell a different story, one that should be considered by state legislators who plan to consider whether to raise the minimum wage in New York to $7.10 an hour from $5.15 when they go back into session this week. 
 First, raising the minimum wage is an inefficient way to lift workers out of poverty. Using Current Population Survey data, my colleague, Joseph Sabia and I estimate that 60 percent of the workers who will gain from this increase are the second- or third-highest earner in their family. Of the rest, 12 percent live alone. Only about 19 percent are single parents with children. This explains why only about 14 percent of workers helped by this minimum-wage increase live in poverty. Unlike an increase in the state's income-tested earned-income credit, a general increase in the minimum wage is unable to discern between a low-wage teenager (who may be from a wealthy family) and a low-income head of household. 
 And sadly, while the benefits of the increase are not concentrated on low-income families, the costs certainly are. My research on previous minimum-wage increases found that low-skilled young adults (those without a high school diploma) suffer four times more employment loss from a minimum-wage increase than their more educated peers. Other vulnerable groups already struggling to maintain employment, such as young African-Americans, suffer similarly high job losses. 
 Researchers from Duke University show that the new competition for these jobs comes primarily from teenagers in higher-income families. These teenagers couldn't be motivated to look for a job at $5.15 an hour. At $7.10, however, they will move into the labor force, which means more competition with low-skill employees for jobs. When they have the choice, business owners will hire these better educated teenagers instead. 
 Those jobs not lost in this way are automated or eliminated. Some lanes at your local grocery store now have self-checkout machines rather than cashiers. When is the last time someone bused your table at a fast-food restaurant or filled up your gas tank? These are all markers of opportunities once open to entry-level employees with little or no experience. And the lack of entry-level opportunities doesn't simply deny low-skilled Americans employment, it deprives them of the opportunity to work their way up into higher paying jobs. Recent research from Miami University of Ohio and Florida State University found that about two-thirds of minimum-wage employees receive raises within a year of starting their jobs, and the median raise is six times higher than that of all other employees.
 Fortunately, the solution for helping workers who live in low income families is right in front of us. New York already ensures that a minimum-wage worker in a low income family will earn well over $7.15 per hour through the New York earned-income credit supplement, which is one of the most generous in the United States. For instance, for every dollar in wages a low-income family with two children earns, the federal government provides a tax credit of 40 cents. New York adds 12 cents more to that credit. A low-income minimum wage worker in New York therefore earns the equivalent of $7.83 per hour total, or up to $5,000 per year from these credits. New York legislators who want to further help these low-income families should increase this credit, rather than a minimum wage that will primarily benefit those living in middle- and upper-income families. 
 In the long run, the key to higher wages for all workers is sustained economic growth. As we emerge from recession, this is not the time to block job opportunities for the least-skilled workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FAST FOOD (60%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

PERSON: Richard V Burkhauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



340 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Making More Pays Less

BYLINE: By RICHARD V. BURKHAUSER. 
Richard V. Burkhauser is the chairman of the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
ALL of us can agree that people who play by the rules and work hard should not live in poverty. On the surface, it would seem that raising the minimum wage paid to workers would help them out. But statistics tell a different story, one that should be considered by state legislators who plan to consider whether to raise the minimum wage in New York to $7.10 an hour from $5.15 when they go back into session this week. 
 First, raising the minimum wage is an inefficient way to lift workers out of poverty. Using Current Population Survey data, my colleague, Joseph Sabia and I estimate that 60 percent of the workers who will gain from this increase are the second- or third-highest earner in their family. Of the rest, 12 percent live alone. Only about 19 percent are single parents with children. This explains why only about 14 percent of workers helped by this minimum-wage increase live in poverty. Unlike an increase in the state's income-tested earned-income credit, a general increase in the minimum wage is unable to discern between a low-wage teenager (who may be from a wealthy family) and a low-income head of household. 
 And sadly, while the benefits of the increase are not concentrated on low-income families, the costs certainly are. My research on previous minimum-wage increases found that low-skilled young adults (those without a high school diploma) suffer four times more employment loss from a minimum-wage increase than their more educated peers. Other vulnerable groups already struggling to maintain employment, such as young African-Americans, suffer similarly high job losses. 
 Researchers from Duke University show that the new competition for these jobs comes primarily from teenagers in higher-income families. These teenagers couldn't be motivated to look for a job at $5.15 an hour. At $7.10, however, they will move into the labor force, which means more competition with current low-skill employees for jobs. When they have the choice, business owners will hire these better educated teenagers instead. 
 Those jobs not lost in this way are automated or eliminated. Some lanes at your local grocery store now have self-checkout machines rather than cashiers. When is the last time someone bused your table at a fast-food restaurant or filled up your gas tank? These are all markers of opportunities once open to entry-level employees with little or no experience. And the lack of entry-level opportunities doesn't simply deny low-skilled Americans employment, it deprives them of the opportunity to work their way up into higher paying jobs. Recent research from Miami University of Ohio and Florida State University found that about two-thirds of minimum-wage employees receive raises within a year of starting their jobs, and the median raise is six times higher than that of all other employees.
 Fortunately, the solution for helping workers who live in low income families is right in front of us. New York already ensures that a minimum-wage worker in a low income family will earn well over $7.15 per hour through the New York earned-income credit supplement, which is one of the most generous in the United States. For instance, for every dollar in wages a low-income family with two children earns, the federal government provides a tax credit of 40 cents. New York adds 12 cents more to that credit. A low-income minimum wage worker in New York therefore earns the equivalent of $7.83 per hour total, or up to $5,000 per year from these credits. New York legislators who want to further help these low-income families should increase this credit, rather than a minimum wage that will primarily benefit those living in middle- and upper-income families. 
 In the long run, the key to higher wages for all workers is sustained economic growth. As we emerge from recession, this is not the time to block job opportunities for the least-skilled workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FAST FOOD (60%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Tax Credits

PERSON: Richard V Burkhauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



341 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Making More Pays Less

BYLINE: By RICHARD V. BURKHAUSER. 
Richard V. Burkhauser is the chairman of the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
ALL of us can agree that people who play by the rules and work hard should not live in poverty. On the surface, it would seem that raising the minimum wage paid to workers would help them out. But statistics tell a different story, one that should be considered by state legislators who plan to consider whether to raise the minimum wage in New York to $7.10 an hour from $5.15 when they go back into session this week. 
 First, raising the minimum wage is an inefficient way to lift workers out of poverty. Using Current Population Survey data, my colleague, Joseph Sabia and I estimate that 60 percent of the workers who will gain from this increase are the second- or third-highest earner in their family. Of the rest, 12 percent live alone. Only about 19 percent are single parents with children. This explains why only about 14 percent of workers helped by this minimum-wage increase live in poverty. Unlike an increase in the state's income-tested earned-income credit, a general increase in the minimum wage is unable to discern between a low-wage teenager (who may be from a wealthy family) and a low-income head of household. 
 And sadly, while the benefits of the increase are not concentrated on low-income families, the costs certainly are. My research on previous minimum-wage increases found that low-skilled young adults (those without a high school diploma) suffer four times more employment loss from a minimum-wage increase than their more educated peers. Other vulnerable groups already struggling to maintain employment, such as young African-Americans, suffer similarly high job losses. 
 Researchers from Duke University show that the new competition for these jobs comes primarily from teenagers in higher-income families. These teenagers couldn't be motivated to look for a job at $5.15 an hour. At $7.10, however, they will move into the labor force, which means more competition with current low-skill employees for jobs. When they have the choice, business owners will hire these better educated teenagers instead. 
 Those jobs not lost in this way are automated or eliminated. Some lanes at your local grocery store now have self-checkout machines rather than cashiers. When is the last time someone bused your table at a fast-food restaurant or filled up your gas tank? These are all markers of opportunities once open to entry-level employees with little or no experience. And the lack of entry-level opportunities doesn't simply deny low-skilled Americans employment, it deprives them of the opportunity to work their way up into higher paying jobs. Recent research from Miami University of Ohio and Florida State University found that about two-thirds of minimum-wage employees receive raises within a year of starting their jobs, and the median raise is six times higher than that of all other employees.
 Fortunately, the solution for helping workers who live in low income families is right in front of us. New York already ensures that a minimum-wage worker in a low income family will earn well over $7.15 per hour through the New York earned-income credit supplement, which is one of the most generous in the United States. For instance, for every dollar in wages a low-income family with two children earns, the federal government provides a tax credit of 40 cents. New York adds 12 cents more to that credit. A low-income minimum wage worker in New York therefore earns the equivalent of $7.83 per hour total, or up to $5,000 per year from these credits. New York legislators who want to further help these low-income families should increase this credit, rather than a minimum wage that will primarily benefit those living in middle- and upper-income families. 
 In the long run, the key to higher wages for all workers is sustained economic growth. As we emerge from recession, this is not the time to block job opportunities for the least-skilled workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FAST FOOD (60%) Labor; Minimum Wage; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: Richard V Burkhauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



342 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Drawing Board

BYLINE: By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
WHEN Willington voters approved spending $3 million in March to build a new public library, library directors were elated the project that had been discussed for several years would finally become a reality.
 Then another reality settled in. Since the budget for the project was set last fall, the cost of steel and other construction materials has risen dramatically. Suddenly, the library was going to cost another $200,000, money the town didn't have.
 ''The steel prices got ahead of us,'' said Mary Bowen, who heads the library's board of directors. ''The windows were the first thing to go and the floor we wanted is not going to happen.'' 
 The board also substituted cheaper wall finishes, fixtures and hardware, reduced the number of dormers, eliminated a fireplace and replaced an oil-fired heating system for a cheaper propane system.
 ''The $3 million sounds like a great amount of money, and it is,'' Mrs. Bowen said. ''But it turned out it's just going to be enough.''
 Willington's library is one of many public building projects throughout the state being squeezed by the sharp escalation in the price of steel, petroleum-based construction materials and wallboard and plywood.
 The increases forced Norwalk to scale back plans for a new high school. In Simsbury, the renovation of its high school is already under way and officials had hoped the project would be completed under budget. Now they realize that won't happen, even by reducing the scale of the project. In Chaplin, the cost of building a new firehouse has risen more than $100,000 and the town is trying to find the extra money to pay for it. Ashford fought the increases by buying the plywood and lumber for a school repair project months in advance to lock in the price, storing the wood in the municipal garage. Even the University of Connecticut, which has been undergoing a multi-billion dollar renovation, has had to find ways to cut back.
 ''There have been general increases in a number of categories,'' Anthony DeMatteo, director of corporate development for Dimeo Construction Company of Providence, R.I., a company that serves as construction managers for a number of public building projects in Connecticut, said. ''Structural steel is at about $2,800 a ton now, but a year ago it was at about $1,900. This touches a lot of areas.'' He also said that from May 2003 to May 2004 he has seen the price of a 4-foot-by-8-foot sheet of plywood rise from about $16 to $30 for some projects, and the cost of drywall go from 17 cents to 21 cents a square foot, a 24 percent increase.
 Mr. DeMatteo said the increases have affected items ranging from door frames and hinges to light fixtures and steel studs.
 ''The steel increase has been a sharp spike over a short period of time,'' said David King, vice president of Kaestle Boos Associates of New Britain, an architectural firm that is working on eight school building projects in the state. ''It's the global economy. China is building cities where there weren't any before. The demand is outstripping the supply.''
 The problem for towns is that the time from idea to the completion of a project can be years. When figuring a budget for a project inflation is factored in, but few towns were able to predict the sudden spike in prices. ''It is hard enough to predict prices a year in advance in the best of times,'' said James Beaudin, principal of the educational practice group for Fletcher-Thompson of Shelton, an architectural firm that designs many public buildings. ''It's a complicated situation we're in right now and I don't see it ending soon.''
 Daniel P. McConaghy, senior vice president and New England regional manager for Gilbane Building Company of Providence, R.I., said many clients are altering their plans. New Haven, for example, is considering using concrete block rather than structural steel to build a new gymnasium at one school.
 ''They are paring back to the necessities,'' he said of many municipalities.
 So as prices have outstripped budgets, building committees, construction managers and designers have literally not only been sent back to the drawing board, but towns are asking taxpayers for more money or seeking more from federal or state funds. Some towns are also dealing with the price increases by putting more money than normal into contingency accounts that are usually used to cover the usual surprises that come up during construction. Many officials overseeing building projects, especially those in small towns with more limited financial resources, said they cannot ask taxpayers for more money.
 The rural town of Chaplin, for example, received a $500,000 grant in 2002 under the state's Small Town Economic Assistance Program. The money was supposed to pay to build a new firehouse. 
 Construction was delayed, however, and First Selectman Rusty Lanzit said the original grant will no longer pay for the project. The town has appealed for another $118,000 in federal funding, but didn't get it, he said. Now the town will look for other funding sources.
 ''Everything affects our mill rate,'' Mr. Lanzit said. ''We don't want any more burden on our taxpayers.''
 Residents in Sterling last month overwhelmingly approved spending $27.5 million to build a new school for students in preschool through Grade 8. Kevin Jordan, the chairman of the Building Committee, said it took the escalating prices into consideration in its project budget.
 ''By the time we start construction, we think prices may be stabilized,'' he said. ''We have a year of design work and two years of construction, but we have a fixed budget.'' He said if the cost of materials continues to rise, the project will have to be adjusted to keep it within budget. 
 In Oxford, a proposal to build the town's first high school was accepted by voters last month. While the town approved spending about $42 million to build the new school, Edwin Hellauer, chairman of the Building Committee, said a proposal to build a larger school for about $37 million was defeated in a town referendum in 2003. So, because of rising costs, the town will get a school that will be about 12,000 square feet smaller but will cost $3 million more than the 2003 plan. 
 Even large municipalities have been forced to juggle funds and carefully monitor building progress. In Norwalk, bids came in nearly $4 million over the budget set about two years ago on a $73 million high school renovation and addition project expected to be complete in the summer of 2006.
 Betsy Bain, co-chairwoman of the building committee, said an initial bid package came in $800,000 to $900,000 higher than anticipated last fall, but a second package in January, after prices had jumped, were $3 million over estimates.
 ''It was not only the steel prices, but also the general availability of workers,'' she said, noting that a number of neighboring towns began working on building projects at about the same time, increasing labor costs.
 The Norwalk committee reduced costs by substituting cheaper plumbing, electrical fixtures, floor finishes and other materials, eliminating equipment such as classroom television monitors and re-designing the school kitchen, she said.
 At UConn, Larry Schilling, executive director of architectural and engineering services at the college, said it will receive bids this fall on a $27 million athletic building. Because of the increase in building supplies, trims are already being made on everything from the grade of carpeting to the types of doors, locks and other hardware. 
 ''The last thing you want to do is reduce the size of the building,'' he said. ''But everything is on the table. If you call for a $30-a-yard carpet you ask if you can get away with a $20-a-yard carpet. Most are items that people will not notice.''
 In Simsbury, where the town is about halfway through a $42 million high school renovation and addition project, initial bids came in during the spring of 2003 at about $4 million below the total amount the town estimated it would spend, said Richard E. Ostop, chairman of the Building Committee. The committee figured it would return that money to the town. But rising costs, and additions to the project, such as replacing windows throughout the school, will force the committee to use some of the money instead.
 And, like other towns, the committee also realized it needed to scale back. It decided not to make the cafeteria larger, as school administrators had asked, because of rising costs.
 ''It's nice if you can own a Cadillac,'' Mr. Ostop said of the more elaborate design. ''But you have to realize a Chevy still gets you there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Simsbury High School, top, is being renovated, but plans were scaled back after costs rose. Above, Rusty Lanzit, Chaplin first selectman, at the site of a proposed firehouse that the town now can't afford. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Simsbury had hoped its school renovation, above, would be under budget. That won't happen. Below, Roberta Passardi, a librarian, at the site of the new Willington library. Building plans have already been altered. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 Amy Code, a member of a building committee in Oxford, at the site of the planned $42 million high school. (Photographs, above and bottom, by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); PROPANE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (68%) Building (Construction); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Works; Steel and Iron; Wallboard; Wood and Wood Products

COMPANY: DIMEO CONSTRUCTION CO (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (63%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (63%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (63%)

PERSON: Gail Braccidiferro

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



343 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Charting Real Estate's Biggest Winners

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
THERE is no way to convert into current dollars the price of ''60 pounds lawful money'' paid in 1781 for the Phebe Comstock House in Silvermine, Conn. But while its appreciation over its first two centuries is difficult to track, the two-story clapboard house with an open-hearth fireplace and dormer windows increased in value by 143.8 percent, when adjusted for inflation, between 1971 and 2001, when it last sold for $442,500.
 It may seem a stretch to cite a Revolutionary-era homestead as an illustration of long-term property appreciation, but the example is not so farfetched. By and large, house values in the New York metropolitan region have taken long strides over the decades.
 Real estate gains in many parts of the city and its suburbs have been higher than those that were typical for the nation as a whole. That sets the metropolitan region apart, too, from average statewide appreciation. Gains in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in general lagged or barely exceeded the national median. 
 Adjusted for inflation, the median home price in the nation rose 168.5 percent from 1950 to 2000. In New York State, the increase was 141.8 percent; in New Jersey, 170.9 percent, and in Connecticut, 132.3 percent.
 But the counties in and around New York City did far better. Using decade-by-decade Census Bureau data going back to 1950, James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, has traced the broadest trends in home prices in the region and the nation.
 ''Despite cycles of lagging and surging values, relative to the nation as a whole there have been extraordinary gains in value in the region over the last half century,'' he said.
 In Bergen County, for example, the median home value over those 50 years rose 220 percent, adjusted for inflation. In Westchester, it climbed 207 percent.
 Manhattan, not surprisingly, outstripped them all: over those five decades its median home value increased by 721 percent.
 By way of illustration, Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company in Manhattan, searched the records on a two-bedroom apartment in a 21-story, 159-unit co-op at 860 Fifth Avenue that sold for $22,400 when the building opened in 1949. 
 It sold for $530,000 in May 1984, he said, for $900,000 in June 1996, for $1.3 million in July 1998 and, most recently, for $1.5 million in January 2002. That constituted, over those 53 years, a 785.9 percent increase in inflation-adjusted value.
 Peter Van Winkle, president of A. W. Van Winkle & Company in Rutherford, N.J., knows something about long-term value. His company was founded by his great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather, Waling Jacob Van Winkle, in 1692.
 Hardly going back that far, a four-bedroom Cape at 158 Highland Cross in Rutherford -- described by Mr. Van Winkle as ''a very typical post-World War II, returning veteran's house'' -- sold for $7,500 in 1948. In May 2002, it sold for $252,000. And seven months later, the owners ''flipped it,'' he said, for $270,000. So, over that 54-year period, it increased by an inflation-adjusted 382.3 percent.
 But how does housing stack up against other investments -- for instance, the stock market? To make the comparison, Dr. Hughes traced the Dow Jones industrial average and data from the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which tracks price changes for the same housing units, from 1980 through the first quarter of this year.
 ''In 1980, the Dow was at 830,'' Dr. Hughes said. ''In 2004, it has been running between 10,000 and 10,500. Rounded off, that's about a 1,100 percent gain.'' Home prices in New York State over the same period, by comparison, increased 400 percent, according to the federal data.
 ''So, on the surface, it looks like you would have done better in the stock market,'' Dr. Hughes said. ''However, that does not take into account the ability to leverage your initial housing investment.''
 In other words -- keeping the numbers simple -- assume you bought a $100,000 home in 1980. ''By 2004, it would have increased to $400,000 in value,'' Dr. Hughes said. ''Thus your gain would have been $300,000.''
 ''However, assuming you only made a 10 percent down payment on the home -- or $10,000 -- that means your initial $10,000 investment grew to $310,000,'' he said. ''That's a gain of about 3,000 percent, which is far better than the stock market. If you had invested the $10,000 in stocks, it would have grown to $110,000 in the same 24-year period.''
 ''So that indicates the effect of leveraging your initial housing investment into a much larger value through borrowing.''
 There are, of course, other factors to consider in comparing housing leverage and capital gains. ''Obviously, you have to pay the mortgage each month over the 24 years,'' Dr. Hughes said. ''However, that is generally not appreciably different from what you would have paid in rent if you hadn't bought the home.'' 
 And, at the same time, a home buyer receives income-tax benefits because of interest-rate and property-tax deductions.
 Also to be taken into account is the fact that people's ability to pay for a home has also climbed over the years. In 1953, the median family income for the Northeast region was $4,575; in 2000, it was $57,000 -- a 121.8 percent increase when adjusted for inflation. That 1953 income could buy a lot more than one would think, looking at today's prices. In 1950 a basic Ford coupe cost $1,333, a quart of milk cost 20 cents and the tab for a salad lunch in the Palm Court at the Plaza Hotel was $1.50.
 A particularly considerable factor to weigh is the volatility of the investment. ''While housing prices have, obviously, gone down during certain periods,'' Dr. Hughes said, ''their volatility is nowhere near that of the stock market in general, and of individual stocks. While losses are possible in housing, very rarely will you confront a complete wipeout, which is always possible in the stock market.''
 Some cautionary notes were offered by Joseph S. Tracy, a senior vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, particularly on individual expectations drawn from broad geographical price data.
 ''Each share of stock in a company is interchangeable with any other, so the price is going to be the same,'' Dr. Tracy said. ''But every house is sort of unique, in its location and other attributes. So there can be a lot of individual price variations within a housing market. We must be careful when using these price indices to infer what you should expect from your own investment.''
 So part of the equation must be the cost of adding a bedroom, installing a pool, a major renovation and, perhaps, all those coats of paint over the decades. You don't, after all, have to paint your portfolio; on the other hand, you can't live in it either.
 And, while it's one thing for the homeowner who stays in place, it can be a completely different picture for someone who moves often. ''If I get a job opportunity in, let's say, Houston, then most likely I'm going to have to sell my house in order to accept that job,'' said Dr. Tracy. ''And it may not be the best time to sell in the current housing market.''
 For example, a one-bedroom apartment at 11 Riverside Drive, near 73rd Street in Manhattan, sold for $180,000 in 1985. Ten years later, at the bottom of the region's most recent real estate slump, it sold for $167,000.
 Pointing out that some people lost all their equity during that downturn, Dr. Tracy said, ''If you know you can stay, that's the thing.''
 Evidence of staying power: that Riverside Drive apartment sold again, a year ago, for $430,000.
 Robert Campbell, a professor of real estate finance at Hofstra University, points out that ''buying a home is an investment over which the investor has substantial control.'' 
 ''I can't do much to control the people who run I.B.M.,'' Dr. Campbell said, ''but I can make good decisions about the condition of my home, thereby increasing the value. I can even exercise some influence on the community and the schools by participating in neighborhood organizations, which also increases value.''
 So particularly for people who remain in their home for a long time, and don't incur repeated transaction costs, Dr. Campbell continued, ''it's an investment with overall very reliably positive returns.''
 For example, the professor pointed out, a three-bedroom colonial at 10 Brookwood Street in Glen Head on Nassau County's North Shore first sold for $2,900 in 1939. ''The lady who purchased the property back then is the same person who sold it in 1991 for $170,000 -- a tidy little profit,'' he said. It is now on the market for $580,000.
 Another house for sale in Long Island is a three-bedroom Tudor at 15 Tarence Street in Rockville Centre that sold for $4,000 in 1944 sold again in 1954 for $13,500, in 1967 for $22,500, and is now on the market at $550,000. If it goes for that price, as Dr. Campbell thinks it might, that would be an increase of 1,179.7 percent, adjusted for inflation.
 Relatively new homes have also shown significant appreciation. 
 In the once desolate South Bronx, a two-bedroom condominium in the Melrose Court development on Brook Avenue that went for $55,000 in 1991 recently sold for $110,000 -- a 44.1 percent increase when adjusted for inflation, according to Mario Procida, president of the Procida Realty & Construction Corporation, which specializes in affordable housing.
 And at that 223-year-old home in Silvermine, Conn., its current owner, Anne Carbone, a member of the Norwalk Historical Society, traces a price trajectory that, though not without dips, has continued to climb.
 After ''60 pounds lawful money'' in 1781, the 13-acre Comstock house -- including a cottage for the last slave in Connecticut history -- sold for $900 in 1824; for $812 in 1844; and, suffering from post-Civil War depression, for $650 in 1866. 
 But by 1971, though by then reduced to less than an acre, the property sold for $41,500. And now, three years after she paid $442,500 for the house, Ms. Carbone -- who sometimes dons a settler's drawstring chemise, black boots and bonnet while entertaining in her home -- has high hopes for a future price, though she's not about to leave.
 ''My friend, who's a Realtor, told me it's gone up quite a bit since I moved in,'' said Ms. Carbone, who usually dresses in the more contemporary costume of a financial services adviser. ''I ask, 'How much?' He says, 'Are you going to sell?' I say, 'No.' He says, 'Don't ask.' ''
 The trouble with asking, of course, is that the lure of profit can overwhelm the reality that people have to live someplace. But should she decide to put it on the market, her friend the broker, Bill Axness of Coldwell Banker in Norwalk, estimated that it would probably go for ''in excess of half a million.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page chart in this section last Sunday about changes in regional home values over the decades misstated the year that the Phebe Comstock House in Norwalk, Conn., sold for $124,500. It was 1979, not 1999. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MANHATTAN OUTSTRIPS THEM ALL -- This East 80th Street house was valued at $3.2 million in 1983, in constant dollars, and is worth $14.7 million today. (Photo by Gina Gayle for The New York Times)
A NEW JERSEY HOUSE FARES WELL -- A Rutherford, N.J., Cape sold for $7,500 in 1948 and $270,000 in 2002. The rise, adjusted for inflation, was 382 percent. (Photo by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
(Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Gains Far Beyond Inflation''Some counties in the region had much bigger increases in their median home values than others, but all of them showed growth over 50 years. The numbers are adjusted to reflect inflation.New York CityBronx: 172%Kings: 210%New York: 721%Queens: 188%Richmond: 227%New York StateDutchess: 138%Nassau: 208%Orange: 174%Putnam: 219%Rockland: 242%Suffolk: 229%Sullivan: 75%Ulster: 114%Westchester: 207%New JerseyBergen: 220%Essex: 151%Hudson: 182%Hunterdon: 431%Mercer: 210%Middlesex: 187%Monmouth: 254%Morris: 266%Ocean: 179%Passaic: 185%Somerset: 235%Sussex: 232%Union: 144%Warren: 268%ConnecticutFairfield: 248%Litchfield: 156%New Haven: 120%(Source by Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, Census of Housing, U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 11)Charts:Phebe Comstock HouseThis house in the Silvermine section of Norwalk, Conn., owned by Anne Carbone, left, in costume, has appreciated significantly over its history, but most of the increase has come recently. If put on the market today, it would probably fetch more than $500,000.ACTUAL DOLLARS1781: 60 pounds1824: $9001866: $6501971: $41,5001999: $124,5002001: $442,500Graph also tracks price in 2003 dollars.Rockville Centre, Long IslandLocated in Nassau County, this house will have had a gain of about 1,180 percent since it was built if it sells for the asking price of $550,000.ACTUAL DOLLARS1944: $4,0001954: $13,5001967: $22,5002004: $550,000Graph also tracks price in 2003 dollars.South Bronx condominiumA two-bedroom apartment in this development on Brook Avenue soared in value between its construction in 1991 and 2004.ACTUAL DOLLARS1991: $55,0002004: $110,000Graph also tracks price in 2003 dollars. (pg. 1)Map of New York State, New Jersey, Long Island and Connecticut highlighting median home values, percentage increase by county, 1950 to 2000. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); CITIES (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); CENSUS (67%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City; New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



344 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Seeking the Sacred In the Adirondacks

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
TOURING from the Lake Placid (N.Y.) Institute for the Arts and Humanities, ''Places of the Spirit: Sacred Sites of the Adirondacks'' at the Housatonic Museum of Art in Bridgeport is a missed opportunity. This is not because the idea of photographing sacred places in the ruggedly chic Adirondacks isn't sound, but because the theme has been interpreted narrowly. Mostly, this exhibition contains front-and-center photographs of churches. 
 Although conflicting definitions of the word ''spirit'' abound, we tend to use it to describe those qualities regarded as forming the typical elements in the character of a person, group, nation, or historical period, or to refer to a supernatural being of some kind. Consequently, ''places of the spirit'' might justifiably include anything from the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington to a remote mountaintop. 
 Some effort has been made to include less conventional sacred sites -- graves, gardens and one or two spots of natural and artistic inspiration. But these are few and far between, with the invited photographers, four in all, concentrating on religious buildings erected by the region's early European settlers. Even the Mohawk Indians, longtime residents of the Adirondacks, are relegated to references in the exhibition catalog. 
 Thematic quibbles aside, the exhibition reveals that the Adirondack region contains an extraordinary variety of historical religious structures. Most are fairly simple buildings built of wood, stone, brick or, more recently, concrete, but there are also more ornate structures designed in various architectural styles, including Federal, Greek Revival, Italianate, Gothic Revival and Queen Anne.
 The diversity of religious faiths and houses of worship established in the region reflects different waves of settlers. For instance, we learn from a short essay by Steven Engelhart in the catalog that Protestant settlers arriving after the Revolutionary War built the region's first churches. Few of those traditional, white clapboard buildings remain, although the photographs document many similar, 19th-century examples.
 Later, economic change in the region, in particular mining and iron production, led to a demand for labor. This brought an influx of new migrants and, with them, new religious affiliations. ''Catholic immigrants from Quebec, Spain, Portugal and Eastern Europe were the largest new group,'' we learn, leading, over time, to the construction of a variety of churches. There was also a small Jewish population, many of them Russians.
 More recently, the rise of tourism in the late 19th century led to the construction of ''summer churches and chapels'' for the growing seasonal population. Among the more interesting structures is the ''Church of the Transfiguration,'' a rustic-looking log building at Blue Mountain Lake, designed ''by New York architect Manly N. Cutter and built by Thomas Wallace in 1885.'' Barry Lobdell's photograph nicely captures its charm.
 Most places shown in the photographs lack people -- a fairly cliched visual device meant to evoke a sense of mystery or a sacred, spiritual aura. It works sometimes, admittedly, but in other cases results in flat, documentary-style images of limited appeal. Unless, that is, viewing visual research into early church architecture in upstate New York is your idea of a good time. 
 Fortunately, a bunch of photographs manage to inch their way into aesthetic territory. 
 Mr. Lobdell's ''Teahouse, White Pine Camp, Paul Smiths'' is a really wonderful photograph, capturing an early morning canoe rider on a foggy lake. This hazy lakeside image, printed in cool blue tones, alludes openly to Chinese and Japanese painting, while marshaling an awareness of nature's profound, mysterious beauty. 
 Turning to the other artists, Shellburne Thurber's photographs of small groups of old gravesites have a touching poignancy. Many of the gravestones are sinking, taking with them all memory of the people buried in these plots. Everything is impermanent in this world, these photographs seem to be saying, returning eventually to nature.
 Romaine Orthwein's ''Private Chapel, Tapawingo'' is one of the few photographs here that includes people. More precisely, it shows the artist, in a white dress, faintly visible through the front window of a little multifaith chapel in the woods near Lake Placid. Her presence is ''enigmatic,'' as the exhibition's curator, Mara Miller, suggests in the catalog, leaving us ''uncertain if she is praying or even if she is a real figure.'' 
 Finally, Heather MacLeod makes square, black and white silver gelatin prints of historic churches. She likes to photograph her subjects head-on, frequently centered both vertically and horizontally. At first I found these no-frills pictures a bit snooze inducing, but later realized they evoked a kind of ideological purity. More than just photographs of olden day churches, they are snapshots of the past.
 ''Places of the Spirit: Sacred Sites of the Adirondacks'' is at the Housatonic Museum of Art, 900 Lafayette Boulevard, Bridgeport, through July 23. Information (203)332-5052 or www.HousatonicMuseum.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Photographs in the ''Places of the Spirit'' show at the Housatonic Museum in Bridgeport include Tibetan prayer flags, top left, and a teahouse at White Pine Camp, above, both by Barry Lobdell, and Chapel Island on Upper Saranac Lake by Romaine Orthwein. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); VETERANS (68%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (64%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (63%); IMMIGRATION (60%) Photography; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Housatonic Museum of Art

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); CHINA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



345 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Summertime, and the Stocks Are Wilting

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
In what has become a familiar summertime pattern, the stock market declined again last week, as worries about flagging demand in the technology sector, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates cooled ardor for stocks.
 With losses of almost 15 percent for the week, Intel and Advanced Micro Devices were among the biggest decliners in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
The shares of the two companies fell after Intel, a technology bellwether, said that its inventories had swollen and that its profit margins were narrowing. Those comments led to widespread declines among tech shares for the week, although I.B.M. rose on Friday after reporting higher-than-expected profit for the second quarter.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 fell 11.42 points, or 1 percent, to close at 1,101.39. The Dow Jones industrial average shed 73.44 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,139.78. On a percentage basis, the Nasdaq composite index had the biggest loss. It dropped 63.18 points, or 3.2 percent, to 1,883.15. 
 In the bond market, yields declined sharply on Friday on a report that inflation in June was relatively low. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.35 percent from 4.46 percent a week earlier. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.IntelNNM: INTCShares of the computer chip maker fell to a 12-month low after it predicted lower profit margins and reported that its inventories had risen.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $22.73WEEK'S CHANGE: -14.45%EST. '04 P/E: 19.15Caesars EntertainmentNYSE: CZRThe casino company is being bought by a rival, Harrah's Entertainment, for more than $5 billion.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.99WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.28%EST. '04 P/E: 21.88Varian Medical SystemsNYSE: VARThe maker of equipment for treating cancer said quarterly and full-year earnings would beat Wall Street estimates, but investors focused on weakness in American orders.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $66.30WEEK'S CHANGE: -14.16%EST. '04 P/E: 28.96Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaNYSE: MSOShares of the company soared on Friday after its founder received a lighter prison sentence than many investors expected in a case involving a sale of ImClone stock.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $11.81WEEK'S CHANGE: +35.75%EST. '04 P/E --SanDiskNNM: SNDKThe maker of memory cards used in digital music players, cameras and hand-held computers posted strong second-quarter earnings on Thursday and gave a robust revenue outlook for the current quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.69WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.19%EST. '04 P/E: 16.37GenzymeNNM: GENZThe pharmaceutical company reported a 58 percent increase in second-quarter revenue and raised its full-year earnings and revenue forecast, citing higher sales projections for several products.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.65%EST. '04 P/E: 29.13E.OnNNM: EONThe German utility company said it would wait until at least 2006 to raise the fees it charges other utilities that use its electricity network.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $74.74WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.55%EST. '04 P/E: 14.32Cabela'sNYSE: CABThe retailer of hunting and camping gear said it would double the size of a newly opened West Virginia distribution center. Shares have risen more than 40 percent since its initial public offering in late June.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.35WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.76%EST. '04 P/E --(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INFLATION (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



346 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2378 words

HEADLINE: Love On the Quiet

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
ONE breezy evening a few months ago, 19-year-old Joseph Briggs did something he had never before dared to do growing up gay in New York: he held hands with and kissed his boyfriend in his own neighborhood. 
 Being affectionate in public in a place like Greenwich Village was one thing. But the Fordham section of the Bronx was different. The children playing tag knew him, and the men and women sitting outside the weary apartment buildings were invariably eager for something to gossip about. And in fact, he and his boyfriend got some surprised looks. But no one said a word.
 ''At first, I was happy I was able to show people in my neighborhood,'' he said. ''Then I had conflicting thoughts about safety and losing friends. But I was more overjoyed than negative.'' 
 Mr. Briggs, who is lanky and unfailingly polite, never finished high school, but writes poems and stories prolifically in a spiral notebook. He memorialized the triumph in verse:
 I am no longer a slave to my fears
 Time is revealing
 It gives insight and shines light on areas of correction in one's life.
 While New York is legendary as a place where gays and lesbians can live openly and free from prejudice, Mr. Briggs's story reveals a great deal about what might be called the other gay New York. Life in this New York unfolds far from the chiseled Chelsea boys, funky Village bars and relatively gay-friendly neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and Park Slope, Brooklyn, that represent the public image of gay life in the city. 
 In the farther reaches of the boroughs outside Manhattan, gay life is often harder and nearly always more complicated. In these neighborhoods, the national debate over gay marriage can be much less important than the search for a doctor who does not squirm when talking about homosexual sex.
 Cohabitating gay couples are more common in Manhattan than in the other boroughs, according to the Gay and Lesbian Atlas, which was published this year by the Urban Institute Press in Washington and used 2000 Census data to determine where same-sex American couples live. But while burgeoning gay enclaves exist in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and in Queens neighborhoods like Jackson Heights, Astoria and Long Island City -- all of which have above-average concentrations of same-sex couples living together, according to the atlas -- they are more the exception than the rule. 
 For every neighborhood like Williamsburg, there are many more, like Howard Beach in Queens, Pelham Parkway in the Bronx and Flatbush in Brooklyn, that have relatively few gay couples living together, according to the atlas. (The data do not account for single gays.) A map that shows concentrations of gay couples in the city can be found at www.urban.org/pubs/gayatlas. 
 The difference plays out even in public celebrations. Hundreds of thousands of people attended the 35th Annual Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Pride March in Manhattan last month, and the Queens Pride and Brooklyn Pride festivals drew their fair share of crowds. By contrast, events in the Bronx and Staten Island were far more muted. The kickoff night of the Out Like That Festival at the Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance drew only about 30 people. In Staten Island, the main observance was a gathering at a Stapleton cafe. 
 With more gay characters on prime-time television and the national spotlight focused on gay marriage -- most recently last week, when the Senate blocked a proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage -- awareness of gay rights is increasing. But many gay New Yorkers predict that broader acceptance for gays outside Manhattan will not come quickly. For one thing, Manhattan is generally considered a safe space for gays; the same cannot be said for the other boroughs. 
 Or, as Mario de la Cruz, a gay man who helps run youth support groups at Bronx AIDS Services, put it: ''You can smile at someone on Christopher Street and not be worried that they will misinterpret it. You can smile at someone just to be nice.''

Less Money, More Taboos
 A web of reasons helps explain why places like White Plains Road in the Bronx, Northern Boulevard in Queens and Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn are still much closer to Main Street than Christopher Street.
 Perhaps most important are cultural differences. While Manhattan is the perfect place to live anonymously among an often transient population, many communities in the other boroughs are tightknit, and the families who live there are often more traditional and consider homosexuality a taboo, if not an outright sin. 
 Economics also plays a role. Less money often translates into less independence for young gays living outside Manhattan. They often cannot afford to live on their own or go away to college. Many cannot find steady work. And they must often travel farther for social and medical services, including treatment for AIDS-related illnesses. ''What is really clear is that the Bronx lesbian and gay community mirrors the Bronx community: people of color, low-income,'' said Mark Reyes, until recently the executive director of the Bronx Lesbian and Gay Health Resource Consortium. ''The major issues are housing and employment.'' 
 Yet another issue involves the machismo common among Latin and West Indian cultures. Fausto Paez, the director of Latitud Cero (Zero Latitude), an Ecuadorean gay group whose members live mostly in Queens, discovered firsthand that homophobia from the home country can easily replicate itself here when he came out of the closet to relatives in Long Island City and found himself ostracized. 
 Nor is machismo limited to Latinos. Among black men, the desire to be seen as masculine means that some gay men have created a separate ''down low'' identity, having sex with men in secret and leading otherwise straight lives. 
 It is revealing that safe spaces and other institutions for gays are relatively uncommon outside Manhattan. In the latest edition of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Directory of Services and Resources, a guide to metropolitan-area gay resources released by the office of Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., less than a quarter of the city organizations listed are outside Manhattan.
 ''How different it is in Chelsea, in the Village,'' Mr. Paez said. ''There are bars, stores, bookstores, cafeterias, delis where people can gather easily, comfortably as can be, where there are no stereotypes. Queens? What it has are bars that are only open at night. In the day there is nothing. In the Bronx there is nothing.''

Intolerance at the Doorstep
 For Joseph Briggs, who finally dared to kiss his boyfriend on his own street, growing up gay was complicated by growing up poor in an often punishing environment. When he was a child, his family bounced between homeless shelters and housing projects in Brooklyn and Queens. He did a stint in foster care. By the time he was 14 and living in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, he was out of the closet, and paid a price; he often got jumped. After switching schools repeatedly, he finally dropped out.
 ''People didn't like it, because I'm very outspoken,'' he said. He even got kicked out of his church choir when it was discovered that he was dating his godbrother, also a church member.
 In his teens, he became interested in women's clothing. He scavenged his mother's old outfits and made his own handbags. But the outfits he created were not for the neighborhood. Instead, he would cover them with baggy clothes, then climb aboard the J train to meet friends in the Village. 
 His transformation to Moniqua Alicia Jackson, his female alter ego, began at the last stop in Brooklyn before the Williamsburg Bridge. ''When I got to Marcy Avenue,'' he said, ''I opened up my bag. As the train pulled out of the station, I'd start putting on my lotion.'' By the time he crossed the bridge, his sweats were off, his hair was loose and his spandex was tight. 
 Although his mother, Priscilla Ford, now supports his sexuality, it was a slow road. ''But it got to the point I wanted to meet his friends,'' she said recently. Now, she is even urging him to take her to see the gay scene in the Village.
 Mr. Briggs's boyfriend, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, is not so lucky. Although he was openly gay to his friends at Robert F. Wagner High School, an alternative school in Long Island City, Queens, he has not come out to his parents or neighbors. His mother is tolerant of gays, he said, but his father gets defensive around them, and is quick to dismiss them with epithets, as do some residents of the housing projects near his home in Astoria. 

Under Tradition's Roof
 One of the hardest tasks for gays outside Manhattan is leading a gay lifestyle while living at home, especially if their families espouse traditional values. 
 Roberto, a slender, delicate-looking 21-year-old who lives in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with his mother, learned this painfully when he was 17. That was when his mother, a devoted worshiper who goes to her Pentecostal church every Sunday, learned that her son was gay; she became suspicious after he and a male friend emerged from his bedroom sporting hickeys. Later that day, she rifled through her son's possessions and found photos of him and his boyfriend embracing affectionately. 
 ''That devastated her,'' said Roberto, who agreed to speak only if his last name were not used. ''She was crying. She said she wanted to kill herself.'' 
 Today, mother and son simply do not discuss such matters. Roberto has found support through a group called Globe -- Gays and Lesbians of Bushwick Empowered, a six-year-old organization that provides support to gay youths and advocates for gay-friendly policies in local schools. 
 And although the situation remains tense, Roberto still lives at home. He has little choice; he is training as an Avon beauty consultant and cannot afford an apartment of his own. ''I would love to,'' he said, ''because my mother is old-fashioned and a little overprotective. She doesn't want you to come home late. And late to her is when the sun goes down.''

Cautiously Comfortable
 While some gays and lesbians who live outside Manhattan live openly and make no apologies for their lives, others follow a more muted and oblique path. Their families may know they are gay, but their work colleagues do not. Or vice versa. The neighbors might welcome them to block parties but would not care to see a same-sex couple holding hands.
 Maria Romagnuolo, who lives with her partner, Wendy, and their 5-year-old twin sons in Dongan Hills, Staten Island, lives just such a nuanced life. One reflection of the complexity of being gay in Staten Island is the lack of gay bars; because many residents are ambivalent about gays, the occasional gay bar that does sprout on the island does not last long.
 ''People don't want to party in their backyard,'' Maria Romagnuolo explained. ''If you're seen walking in, it's going to get back to Mommy.'' Yet in a small nod to the borough's gay families, the Staten Island Children's Museum began a playgroup last month for the children of gay parents. 
 The Romagnuolos, who have been together for 13 years, are cautiously, and complicatedly, comfortable in the borough generally considered the city's most conservative. So while they will not hold hands in public, Maria Romagnuolo is co-president of the PTA at her sons' school, Public School 52.
 With more money or no children, she might move. ''I'd go to Manhattan if it were up to me,'' she said. ''You could hold hands and feel confident. You can be who you are. When I'm in Manhattan, I'm like, ahhhhhh.'' But Manhattan, along with gay-friendly places where the couple has traveled, like Provincetown, Mass., and Key West, Fla., are out of their economic reach. 
 ''Whenever it's a gay community, you have to pay double,'' she said. ''Where do we live? We live in a straight community that we can afford.'' Their story is common, especially among lesbian couples, who are more likely than gay male couples to live in suburban settings, largely because they are also more likely to have children, said Jason Ost, co-author of the Gay and Lesbian Atlas. 

Very Gay, Very Proud
 For all the obstacles to gay life in the boroughs, there are undeniable bright spots. Many gays outside Manhattan speak lovingly of the Starlite, a bar in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, that has been around since 1960 and claims to be the city's oldest bar under black gay ownership. 
 And one of the best places to be ''out'' outside Manhattan was last month's Queens Pride festival in Jackson Heights. After the parade, the streets were buzzing, not just with gays and lesbians but also local families, many of them immigrants accompanied by toddlers, who came for the food and the music, and were unfazed by the drag queens and public displays of affection. 
 Female staff members from Chueca, a Colombian-owned lesbian bar in Woodside whose name translates as ''crooked,'' attracted a crowd of admirers of both sexes as they danced to the sounds of cumbia, salsa and merengue while slabs of Flintstone-sized beef roasted nearby. Drag queens in outrageous costumes roamed the streets, as groups like SAGE/Queens, Senior Action in a Gay Environment, engaged the 50-plus crowd. Clearly, as Karen Taylor, the group's director, pointed out, the Queens scene had come a long way. 
 ''Manhattan and San Francisco organizations are hitting their 25th, 30th year,'' she said. ''You've stabilized, you've institutionalized. Queens is not at that stage, but people are coming together.''
 And some gay residents of the boroughs beyond Manhattan, like Elizabeth Marrero, a 40-year-old Puerto Rican lesbian, have never been prouder of where they live.
 Ms. Marrero, the house manager at the Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance in Hunts Point, grew up in what she describes as a ''typical Latin household'' in the Fordham section of the Bronx. Though she does not feel comfortable holding hands with her girlfriend in the neighborhood of her childhood, she insists she is not going anywhere.
 ''Being gay was definitely not something they were going to embrace quickly,'' she said of her family, ''but I was raised with the courage to be what I wanted to be. If I was going to be gay, I was going to be gay in the place where I was born and bred.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: For Roberto, above, sharing an apartment with his mother in Williamsburg means home life is tense. Below, Lisa Ortega, who is bisexual, and her daughter at the Out Like That Festival in the Bronx. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)
(Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Left, Joseph Briggs, 19, lives in the Fordham section of the Bronx and was wary of letting people in his neighborhood know he was gay. Above, Mikhail Mantilla, 14, says he has been kicked out of his house in the Bronx several times, either directly or indirectly because of his sexuality. Right, the Queens Pride festival in Jackson Heights. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
(Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
(Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)
 At the Queens Pride festival. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); POETRY (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); CENSUS (64%) Homosexuality

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



347 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: New Name, but Same Initials, for G.A.O.

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
The G.A.O., the agency that conducts investigations and audits for Congress, is still the G.A.O. But from now on, the initials will stand for the Government Accountability Office, not the General Accounting Office, the name since the agency was created in 1921.
 President Bush signed a law changing the name on July 7. 
Congress approved the bipartisan legislation last month at the request of David M. Walker, the comptroller general.
 ''Our past name did not accurately reflect who we are and what we do,'' said Mr. Walker, who is head of the agency. ''We've never been in the accounting business. We mostly do audits and investigations, offer policy analysis and render legal opinions.''
 Mr. Walker said the new name might help attract lawyers, investigators, economists and other professionals who were not really interested in being accountants.
 In addition to the name change, the new law will exempt the agency from the executive branch pay scales. Starting as early as next year, the 3,200 G.A.O. employees will not get annual automatic across-the-board pay increases but will have their pay adjusted ''based on skill, knowledge and performance,'' Mr. Walker said.
 The agency plans to use the old stationery and business cards as long as they last, Mr. Walker said. 
 ''After all,'' he said, ''we are in the economy and efficiency business.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); APPROVALS (73%) Names, Organizational; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (94%) Government Accountability Office; Government Accounting Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



348 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Psychology's Black Hole: The Mind of a Terrorist

BYLINE: By MARK GLASSMAN

 BODY:
WHEN the 9/11 Commission released its preliminary staff reports last month, some of the most compelling material came from the lives of the men who hijacked the airplanes. 
 Who were these guys, anyway? 
 There was Ziad al-Jarrah, a pilot who considered dropping out of the plot. Mr. Jarrah had a girlfriend, a penchant for nightclubs and a private Christian school education. He was from a well-to-do family, with whom he was quite close. He was, in short, ''a relatively unlikely candidate to become an Al Qaeda suicide operative,'' according to Staff Statement No.16. But that did not stop him from hijacking in God's name United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed into a field in Pennsylvania. 
 It is unclear whether security officials could have seen this kind of behavior lurking in a man like Mr. Jarrah -- in any man, really -- but the Department of Homeland Security is looking for a few good scientists to at least give it try.
 A $12 million grant from the department will finance an academic center to study the behavioral and social aspects of terrorism. The goal is to attract a group of researchers yearning to find out not only what makes terrorists tick, but also when they'll go off. When did terrorism become the new physics? Can we really make a science of all this? 
 There is no established terrorism questionnaire. No one has validated a terrorism quotient or found a terror gene. Which is not to say no one has tried. Dr. Jeffrey Victoroff, a professor who studies terrorism at the University of Southern California, said no ''terrorist personality'' has been unearthed. ''There is no mind of the terrorist,'' he said. ''There are only minds of terrorists.'' 
 Jessica Stern, who lectures on terrorism at Harvard, traveled around the world conducting interviews with known terrorists. She said that she found great variation in their reasoning, but that there was a common thread: most of them felt humiliated and spoke of being pigeonholed into a lower, weaker caste by some other group. 
 In her research, Dr. Stern said, she came across a follower of the extremist American group, the Identity Christians. He had suffered bronchitis as a child, was discouraged from joining the boys' gym class and instead joined the girls. An Islamic Kashmiri militant lamented that Muslims no longer held the power and stature in the world that they once did; he said, ''Our ego hurts.'' Dr. Stern said that while both terrorists felt humiliated, there was a difference in their shame. ''For Americans,'' she said, ''it tends to be a lot more personal.'' 
 Dr. Stern's research, published as ''Terror in the Name of God,'' benefited from access to the lives of terrorists. But even Dr. Stern, who did her research before 9/11, said it would be dangerous to return. ''For an American to do that today,'' she said, ''I think it's very likely they would end up the way Daniel Pearl did.'' And that is one reason why the opportunity to work with Homeland Security might be worth more to scholars than a grant. 
 For scientists, it could mean access to an invaluable subject pool (terrorists) and unprecedented clearance to classified documents. ''The closer that you can get to that tiny subgroup of humans who choose the life of terrorist,'' Dr. Victoroff said, ''the better your understanding will be.'' 
 In this case, getting close might mean something as off-limits as a visit with a detainee in Guantanamo Bay. But how to understand a terrorist's motivation is a matter of debate. Some scientists advocate a psychoanalytic approach that hopes to understand a terrorist's family history and early-life events and the development of the psyche.
 Others say that this method is outdated. ''They're trying to apply 1920's Freudian theory to explain the actions of 21st-century terrorists who grew up in a society that was nothing like Vienna in the 1930's,'' Dr. Victoroff said.
 He has developed what he called ''the oppression questionnaire'' to gauge the degree to which a person feels subjugated. But there could be an X-factor to the terrorist personality, something that cannot be quantified. ''I think that if we overemphasize a quantitative, micro-economic approach to terrorism, we may fail to recognize the deep effects of religious fervor, hatred, bravado and psychodynamic pressures that are unknown to the typical Western mind,'' Dr. Victoroff said.
 The center could provide a new stream of information on fighting terrorism, experts said. ''When we decide what we're going to protect in this country, we tend to do it because it's vulnerable or because we think there's a way to threaten it,'' said David Aaron, the assistant to the president for counterterrorism at the RAND Corporation. ''But we don't really take into consideration what these people are likely to do.'' Spending money on airline security seems to make sense because we know terrorists hijack airplanes, Mr. Aaron said, not because airplanes are easy targets.
 More knowledge about terrorist behavior is crucial, he said. After all, Mr. Aaron said, ''we can't protect everything."


GRAPHIC: Photos: What do Ziad al-Jarrah, above, part of the 9/11 hijackings, and Timothy McVeigh have in common? (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); HIJACKING (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); RELIGION (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); PHYSICS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Terrorism; Research

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%); AL-QAEDA (57%) Homeland Security Department

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: Mark Glassman

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); KASHMIR (66%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (66%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



349 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Treasure of the Andes, Ancient Demons Included

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CORPAPUTO, Bolivia 

 BODY:
THE discovery of natural gas, loads of it, in this isolated, landlocked country was greeted in the late 1990's as a blessing. But it has come with a curse: The divisions it opened could serve as a cautionary tale about what unfolds when great treasures are discovered in a society plagued by deep poverty, rising nationalism and a marked polarization between the powerful and the powerless. 
 Bolivia's masses of poor indigenous people, afraid they will be left out of the bonanza when the gas is exported to the United States and Brazil, have approached a state of rebellion in the countryside. One government has been forced from office and its successor is trying to calm the mistrust with a referendum today on how to sell the gas abroad. 
 This is not the first time that fabulous riches have been found here for export. Gold and silver, tin and zinc -- all drew dreamers hoping to strike it rich, from Spanish conquistadores to foreign mining outfits. 
 But those earlier riches were plundered by a few who became fabulously rich, leaving the mass of people with little to show in return. And the poor have not forgotten.
 So the idea of developing gas fields for foreign interests has prompted furious, wide-scale protests and uncertainty that have all but paralyzed the industry, which was opened to foreign investment in the 1990's and is now dominated by such giants as BP, Petrobras and Repsol-YPF of Spain.
 The turmoil culminated last October when indigenous groups rose up, enraged that the government planned to export gas to the United States through Chile, a historic enemy that snatched Bolivia's coastline in an 1879 war. In this highland area, 13,000 feet above sea level, battles between indigenous protesters and soldiers left 59 people dead. President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada soon resigned. Across Latin America, from Mexico to Venezuela to Peru, the discovery of fabulous wealth -- whether tin or oil or gold -- has unfolded in much the same way. Divisions and rivalries deepen; those scrambling to get rich clash with those left behind. Latent nationalism surfaces, sometimes with a fury. In the end, the discoveries, or the development of cash crops like sugar, usually do little to make inequitable societies more fair.
 Venezuela is a case in point. Its vast oil wealth led some economists to hope in the 1970's that it would soon join the world's developed nations. Instead, successive governments allowed corruption and nepotism to dictate how the profits were distributed, and the society's divisions grew. The resentments were a major factor in the election in 1998 of the leftist populist Hugo Chavez, whose rhetoric and policies have only polarized the society more.
 Moreover, commodities like metals, oil and gas are prone to a boom-bust cycle. When prices rise, the rich get richer. When they fall, the poor suffer first. Demagogues thrive and hatreds rise, leading to everything from land disputes to massacres.
 Here, the natural gas has awakened a fierce mistrust, expressing itself as indigenous nationalism, that has led organizations of the poor to fight the wealthier, European-descended elite over who will control the profits. It is not uncommon for indigenous groups to take over mines in Bolivia, demanding that private companies pull out, and such tactics can succeed. Four years ago, when poor people in Cochabamba, Bolivia's third-largest city, rose in protest against an American company that had planned to privatize the city water supply, the company simply withdrew. 
 The poor here -- mostly Aymara and Quechua Indians descended from the Inca and other civilizations -- have told each other for generations how their ancestors died in the Spanish mines, while leaving their masters wealthy beyond words. The legend of the so-called Cerro Rico, or Rich Mountain, of Potosi is that it yielded enough silver to have built a bridge from Bolivia to Madrid. 
 ''Who made the money, the Spanish, that is what helped make them a power,'' said Pedro Condori Chipana, 60, as he and other villagers in Corpaputo prepared for a meeting on the gas issue. ''That is something we never forget. We have it taped right here,'' he said, pressing a finger to his forehead.
 Such ancient anger was a major reason that Mr. Sanchez de Lozada's successor, President Carlos Mesa, convened today's referendum to give Bolivians a voice in the government's plans for the gas industry.
 Whatever the results, they are unlikely to placate some of Bolivia's more radical leaders, like Felipe Quispe, a former guerrilla who wants to form an Indian state where foreign industries are expropriated. 
 Many Bolivians in the highlands here say they simply want to use the gas themselves, to heat their homes and boil their water. But the radicals see another opportunity -- to use the issue to organize their constituents, even as it divides the country. ''This has given us force,'' said Eugenio Rojas, an Aymara leader. ''We can say, 'There is a resource. Let's fight for it.' It unites us.''
 Such talk prompts Carlos Alberto Lopez to shake his head. Mr. Lopez, who was vice minister for energy when the fields were discovered, now lobbies for the foreign oil and gas companies in Bolivia. He said he understands the frustrations of people who saw their resources exploited while their lives failed to improve. But he blamed corrupt governments. ''They try to paint what happened with tin as if it were caused by the transnationals, that it was a sacking of Bolivia,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''The problem was not the exportation. It was what Bolivia did with the money it made.''
 Now, he said, Bolivia has the right fiscal controls to ensure that the money will not be misspent or stolen.
 But to several radical indigenous groups, nothing Mr. Mesa can say or do is acceptable. ''We are going to go and block roads and stop people from voting,'' Alejo Veliz, a leader in Cochabamba told reporters last week. ''We don't have fear in our hearts.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Graffiti in La Paz reflects divisions over a vote today on selling Bolivia's gas abroad. (Photo by Dado Galdieri/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); TRENDS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFERENDUMS (74%); POLITICS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CORRUPTION (65%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gas (Fuel); United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Politics and Government ; Elections; Referendums

COMPANY: REPSOL SA (83%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (57%)

TICKER: REP (MCE) (83%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (57%); PBR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (55%) Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PERU (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CHILE (79%) Bolivia; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



350 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: When One Is Enough

BYLINE: By Amy Richards as told to Amy Barrett

 BODY:
I grew up in a working-class family in Pennsylvania not knowing my father. I have never missed not having him. I firmly believe that, but for much of my life I felt that what I probably would have gained was economic security and with that societal security. Growing up with a single mother, I was always buying into the myth that I was going to be seduced in the back of a pickup truck and become pregnant when I was 16. I had friends when I was in school who were helping to rear nieces and nephews, because their siblings, who were not much older, were having babies. I had friends from all over the class spectrum: I saw the nieces and nephews on the one hand and country-club memberships and station wagons on the other. I felt I was in the middle. I had this fear: What would it take for me to just slip? 
 Now I'm 34. My boyfriend, Peter, and I have been together three years. I'm old enough to presume that I wasn't going to have an easy time becoming pregnant. I was tired of being on the pill, because it made me moody. Before I went off it, Peter and I talked about what would happen if I became pregnant, and we both agreed that we would have the child. 
 I found out I was having triplets when I went to my obstetrician. The doctor had just finished telling me I was going to have a low-risk pregnancy. She turned on the sonogram machine. There was a long pause, then she said, ''Are you sure you didn't take fertility drugs?'' I said, ''I'm positive.'' Peter and I were very shocked when she said there were three. ''You know, this changes everything,'' she said. ''You'll have to see a specialist.''
 My immediate response was, I cannot have triplets. I was not married; I lived in a five-story walk-up in the East Village; I worked freelance; and I would have to go on bed rest in March. I lecture at colleges, and my biggest months are March and April. I would have to give up my main income for the rest of the year. There was a part of me that was sure I could work around that. But it was a matter of, Do I want to? 
 I looked at Peter and asked the doctor: ''Is it possible to get rid of one of them? Or two of them?'' The obstetrician wasn't an expert in selective reduction, but she knew that with a shot of potassium chloride you could eliminate one or more. 
 Having felt physically fine up to this point, I got on the subway afterward, and all of a sudden, I felt ill. I didn't want to eat anything. What I was going through seemed like a very unnatural experience. On the subway, Peter asked, ''Shouldn't we consider having triplets?'' And I had this adverse reaction: ''This is why they say it's the woman's choice, because you think I could just carry triplets. That's easy for you to say, but I'd have to give up my life.'' Not only would I have to be on bed rest at 20 weeks, I wouldn't be able to fly after 15. I was already at eight weeks. When I found out about the triplets, I felt like: It's not the back of a pickup at 16, but now I'm going to have to move to Staten Island. I'll never leave my house because I'll have to care for these children. I'll have to start shopping only at Costco and buying big jars of mayonnaise. Even in my moments of thinking about having three, I don't think that deep down I was ever considering it. 
 The specialist called me back at 10 p.m. I had just finished watching a Boston Pops concert at Symphony Hall. As everybody burst into applause, I watched my cellphone vibrating, grabbed it and ran into the lobby. He told me that he does a detailed sonogram before doing a selective reduction to see if one fetus appears to be struggling. The procedure involves a shot of potassium chloride to the heart of the fetus. There are a lot more complications when a woman carries multiples. And so, from the doctor's perspective, it's a matter of trying to save the woman this trauma. After I talked to the specialist, I told Peter, ''That's what I'm going to do.'' He replied, ''What we're going to do.'' He respected what I was going through, but at a certain point, he felt that this was a decision we were making. I agreed. 
 When we saw the specialist, we found out that I was carrying identical twins and a stand alone. My doctors thought the stand alone was three days older. There was something psychologically comforting about that, since I wanted to have just one. Before the procedure, I was focused on relaxing. But Peter was staring at the sonogram screen thinking: Oh, my gosh, there are three heartbeats. I can't believe we're about to make two disappear. The doctor came in, and then Peter was asked to leave. I said, ''Can Peter stay?'' The doctor said no. I know Peter was offended by that. 
 Two days after the procedure, smells no longer set me off and I no longer wanted to eat nothing but sour-apple gum. I went on to have a pretty seamless pregnancy. But I had a recurring feeling that this was going to come back and haunt me. Was I going to have a stillbirth or miscarry late in my pregnancy? 
 I had a boy, and everything is fine. But thinking about becoming pregnant again is terrifying. Am I going to have quintuplets? I would do the same thing if I had triplets again, but if I had twins, I would probably have twins. Then again, I don't know. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bob Hambly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); FAMILY (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); CHILDREN (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (71%) Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Multiple Births

PERSON: Amy Richards; Amy Barrett

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



351 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Albany May Be Receptive To Raising Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 17 

 BODY:
While little of substance has happened in Albany this year, lawmakers and lobbyists say New York State appears closer than ever to raising its minimum wage for the first time in more than four years, joining 12 other states in paying workers more than the federal government's $5.15 hourly rate.
 The Democrat-led Assembly has passed two bills this session that would raise the minimum wage: one would increase it to $7.10 an hour, the other to $7.25. And while the Republicans who control the State Senate have been sending mixed signals, supporters of a higher minimum wage say they believe there is a strong chance that senators will vote for an increase soon after they return to Albany on Tuesday.
 While no one is sure what will happen, advocates say this is the closest they have come in years to seeing an increase go through. 
 Many Republicans, including Gov. George E. Pataki and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, support an increase, although the two men would like the federal government to raise it for all states. 
 ''I prefer a national solution, but in the absence of one, I'd look at a proposal if the Legislature passes it,'' Mr. Pataki said at a recent appearance in Albany. ''I have supported raising the minimum wage, and I believe it should be done nationally.''
 Those on both sides of the issue say that whatever happens, the consequences will be felt across the state.
 Of the roughly eight million workers in New York, more than 700,000 earn $5.15 to $7.10 an hour, working mostly in the retail trade and leisure and hospitality industries, say those on both sides of the issue. They cut hair, wash dishes, pump gas, bag groceries and run movie theater projectors, among an array of other jobs, according to a study by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a union-backed research group in Albany, which used federal wage surveys to come up with the primary occupations that are paid less than $7 an hour. 
 And they are not just teenagers flipping hamburgers in temporary summer jobs, said Frank Mauro, the executive director of the institute. 
 ''Teens are more present in the low-wage work force than in the overall work force, but they still represent a distinct minority of the low-wage work force,'' said Mr. Mauro, who backs an increase.
 Opponents say a higher minimum wage will force small businesses to charge consumers more; to pay additional Social Security, unemployment and Medicare taxes; and to pay more in workers' compensation. 
 Low-skilled workers could also be forced out of jobs by an increase intended to help them, they say. ''When you raise this minimum wage, it is the current low-skilled work force that suffer because they face the greater likelihood of losing their jobs from competition by new workers to the labor force who are often teenagers from affluent families,'' said Craig Garthwaite, director of research at the Employment Policies Institute, a Washington-based nonprofit group that focuses on entry-level labor issues and is financed in part by businesses and manufacturing firms. 
 There are better ways to lift families out of poverty, opponents argue, including federal and state earned income tax credit programs that can put thousands of dollars into people's pockets in one shot.
 The battle lines in the debate are familiar, pitting some of the Democrats' leading constituencies, including labor and the Working Families Party, against powerful small-business interests, including the Business Council of New York State, a lobbying group. Lobbying on both sides has been fierce in the capital.
 The state last voted to raise the minimum wage, to $5.15 from $4.25, in December 1999. The increase went into effect three months later. When the federal minimum wage increased to $5.15 in 1997, some workers in New York began getting that rate even though the state's minimum was lower.
 The 12 states that have raised the wage above the federal level, have not fared worse in terms of employment growth when compared with states that have not raised it, according to proponents. 
 Supporters say an increase would give the state's lowest earners more disposable income, help hundreds of thousands of struggling families and stimulate New York's economy, especially in upstate areas where Main Street stores have remained boarded up, even through the boom years of the late 1990's. Mr. Mauro said his study found that an increase would also bump up the wages of another 500,000 workers already earning $7 to $8 an hour.
 ''The families that are struggling need help now,'' said Assemblywoman Susan John, a Democrat from Rochester, who is the chairwoman of the Assembly Labor Committee, and the sponsor of legislation to set the minimum at $7.10 or $7.25 by 2006. 
 Among those hoping for an increase in the minimum wage are restaurant and bar employees, who, because they earn tips, are the lowest wage earners, getting as little as $3.30 an hour as a baseline salary.
 Joseph C. Spencer, an owner of a Rochester restaurant called Hogans Hideaway, said he hoped the Legislature would raise the minimum wage because, under the current minimum wage, full-time workers earn $10,712 a year, which is below the federal poverty level. ''It's ridiculous,'' said Mr. Spencer, 49, who has 40 workers, including about 10 who work full time. ''I have had here talented workers and people that are stuck in the rut of working 50, 60 hours a week to make ends meet.''
 Raising the minimum wage is a popular position in New York City, where the Partnership for New York City, a leading business group, is urging an increase and where Mr. Bruno is struggling to maintain control of two Senate seats that are widely seen as vulnerable in the fall elections.
 Senator Michael A.L. Balboni, a Republican from Mineola, on Long Island, who is co-sponsoring a bill to raise the minimum wage, said he believed the Senate would act on it ''probably sooner rather than later.'' He added, ''I don't know if it will be this week, but it will be given a lot of consideration very shortly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph C. Spencer, an owner of Hogans Hideaway, a restaurant in Rochester, says he backs increasing the state's minimum wage. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); SALARY SURVEYS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); LAYOFFS (63%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Labor

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



352 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: In California, 'Garage Mahals' Are Not Just for Cars

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS GRUDIN

DATELINE: BAKERSFIELD, Calif. 

 BODY:
AT 6 feet 10 inches tall, the financial consultant Brad Barnes needs a lot of things custom built. His home's doors are more than a foot higher than standard, and a go-cart he made for himself for fun looks about the size of a Mini Cooper. But what's most indicative of this man's need for space is his garage, which with six car bays is at the cutting edge of a trend in high-end real estate: the ''garage mahal.''
 Mr. Barnes's 1,700-square-foot garage is an airy contiguous room more than a third the size of his 4,800-square-foot custom home, leaving plenty of space for five cars, five motorcycles and his colossal go-cart. 
 ''If I had it to do again, I'd do 12 -- I'd go double-deep,'' he said, standing on the gleaming light green epoxy finish that covers the garage's cement floor. 
 Just down the street in Mr. Barnes's gated community of Brimhall Classics, Dennis Bernard also has shelter for six vehicles. Mr. Bernard, owner of a meat distribution company, has three separate two-car garages attached to his $750,000 brick abode: one for his son Brandon, one for his wife, Janice, and one for him. His garages' many amenities include carpeting, cable TV, speakers wired to the home stereo system and a bathroom.
 ''I've always liked garages and I don't think you can have enough of them,'' Mr. Bernard said.
 Home builders and real estate analysts say consumer demand for bigger garages is more than the passing fancy of a few Bakersfield bigwigs. Throughout the nation from 1992 to 2003, the percentage of garages built with three or more stalls rose to 19 percent from 11, according to the Commerce Department. And in the West, where basements are rare and thus storage space scarce, the trend is even more pronounced as 33 percent of garages built in 2003 fit at least three cars.
 Although the number of garages built with four or more bays is not tracked, anecdotal evidence suggests a spike in those as well, said Gopal Ahluwalia, an economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
 ''Upscale housing is tending toward four-car garages,'' Mr. Ahluwalia said. ''In the West, I would venture to guess that about 10 percent are four or more. Everybody wants more garage -- the basis of it is that bigger is better.''
 Each stall added to a garage costs about $7,000, depending on the regional market. For remodels, garage additions cost about 15 percent more, Mr. Ahluwalia said. In general, extra garage space will recover more than 80 percent of its cost when a home is sold.
 Large, obtrusive garages can detract from the value of a home if they dominate its front elevation, but there are a number of ways to camouflage them, according to Arthur C. Danielian, president of Danielian Associates Architecture & Planning in Irvine, Calif.
 ''Architects and builders have gotten a lot more creative and have done a really good job on the street scene by playing down garages,'' he said. 
 For example, Mr. Barnes's garage is attached to the rear of his home and Mr. Bernard's three are staggered alongside his house, blending inconspicuously with the rest of the brick structure. Other methods of concealing large garages include building them detached, or making them tandem so two cars fit one after another. 
 Residential developers -- from boutique custom builders to major national companies -- are catching on to the demand for bigger garages and adjusting their offerings accordingly.
 KB Home of Los Angeles, the fifth-largest builder in the nation, recently introduced four-stall garages in Southern California, something the company has never done before, according to Jeffrey Mezger, the chief operating officer.
 ''The garage is now part of the lifestyle of the home people live in,'' he said. ''It's a flex space that they now incorporate into the way they live.'' 
 The steady growth of GarageTek, a franchiser of garage organization systems that is based in Syosset, N.Y., reflects this trend. The company, founded in 2000, had $13 million in sales through its 67 franchises last year, up from $1.1 million in 2001. Marc Shuman, GarageTek's founder and president, said the company is on pace for $22 million in sales this year.
 GarageTek installs flooring, cabinets and shelves, touting ''a revolutionary concept in home improvement'' by transforming cluttered garages into ''flex space.'' The company says it has come across an increasing number of four-, five- and six-car garages. 
 ''Larger garages will ultimately become the recreation focal point of the home -- people will be working out and potting plants in there and kids will be playing in there,'' Mr. Shuman said. ''The garage is evolving into a different room than it has traditionally been known. The garage that we've seen up until the 90's will not be the garage we see in 2010. It's an inexpensive, very functional space.''
 The most obvious explanation for growing garages is that people simply have more cars and other ''toys,'' such as boats, jet skis, motorcycles and recreational vehicles, said Phil Gaskill, owner of Gaskill Custom Homes in Bakersfield, which built Mr. Barnes's and Mr. Bernard's garages. More people are also buying sports utility vehicles, he noted.
 ''Now Junior has a car and dad has a second car that he uses on weekends, and add in a boat and, gosh, you don't want that to sit out in the sun, and then mom and dad bought a Harley for Wednesday night rides, so you have to have a place for that,'' said Mr. Gaskill, who has built several homes with five or six bays. ''It's like bathrooms -- everybody feels like they ought to have their own personal vehicle and their own garage stall,'' he added.
 Standing outside his palatial brick trio of garages admiring an immaculate 1938 Ford pickup, one of six family vehicles, Mr. Bernard could not agree more. ''You have to build your garage first and your home second,'' he said. ''It's like the old saying: the guy who dies with the most toys wins.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A ROOM FOR A CAR, A BOAT . . . -- Brad Barnes's custom garage, above, is more than a third the size of his house. His neighbor, Dennis Bernard, added amenities like carpeting and cable to his three garages. (Photos by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Housing

PERSON: nicholas grudin

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (86%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Bakersfield (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



353 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2748 words

HEADLINE: Schundler Is Itching For a Rematch

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
FROM behind the wheel of his Toyota convertible, with the top down to better take in the sights and sounds of the city he once governed, Bret Schundler had an uncharacteristically brief, if not surprising, announcement: He will, in fact, try to unseat Governor McGreevey -- whose administration has been marred by several scandals -- next year. 
 ''I've decided I'm going to run,'' Mr. Schundler said, confirming what most political insiders have suspected since the day after he lost to Mr. McGreevey in 2001.
 A whining street cleaner, its mechanical brooms sweeping away the flotsam and jetsam of urban life, rumbled in front of Mr. Schundler's car. The noise must have drowned out the cries of despair his announcement surely inspired among establishment Republicans who regard him as an apostate and, worse, a certain loser. Also unheard over the whirring and whining were the hosannas that must have poured forth from the mouths of Democrats, who view a Schundler campaign the way Reformation-era Calvinists regarded earthly success -- as a sign of eventual salvation. 
 Three years after winning a poisonous Republican gubernatorial primary only to lose by a convincing 56 to 42 percent to Mr. McGreevey, Mr. Schundler is looking to follow in the footsteps of many state politicians -- the governor included -- who failed on their first bid for statewide office but not their second. That list includes, to name a few, Christie Whitman, James J. Florio and Thomas H. Kean Sr.
 But to add his name to that list, Mr. Schundler will have to overcome both conventional wisdom, which states that he is too conservative for moderate New Jersey voters, and mainstream Republican officials, who have not forgiven him for defying the party's establishment in the 2001 primary. 
 The ''too conservative'' label reflects Mr. Schundler's opposition to abortion rights and gun control, his support for school vouchers and his embrace of market solutions rather than government regulation on issues like the environment. ''If you want to know what remediates brownfields,'' he said, referring to abandoned industrial sites, ''it is not government regulation and it is not government money. It is private money in pursuit of a profit.''
 Though such rhetoric may place him well within the national Republican Party's mainstream, the party establishment in New Jersey is more centrist and looks for like-minded souls to run for statewide office in an increasingly Democratic state.

Opponents Carry Grudge
 But the animus for Mr. Schundler is not just ideological; it is personal. In 2001, when he was mayor of Jersey City, Mr. Schundler was prepared to challenge acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco for the nomination until Mr. DiFrancesco dropped out of the race amid questions about his dealings with real estate developers in Scotch Plains. Robert Franks, then a veteran congressman, stepped in for Mr. DiFrancesco, but the desperate effort to block Mr. Schundler failed.
 So Mr. Schundler's campaign effectively marked the end of the political careers of these two Republican stalwarts, and their friends and allies have neither forgiven nor forgotten. ''Schundler bucked the party establishment in 2001, and there still are some hard feelings,'' said Joseph Marbach, chairman of the political science department at Seton Hall University. 
 That is one way to put it. Another way would be in the words of one Republican lobbyist in Trenton who asked to vent privately about Mr. Schundler. ''His is preachy and he is didactic, and if he wins the nomination, all he'll do is bring down the party with him,'' the lobbyist said. 
 But a Schundler supporter, Alan Steinberg, dismissed his candidate's intra-party critics as ''either left-of-center Republicans or a few disgruntled members of the Trenton insider crowd who have never forgiven him for winning the 2001 primary and exposing their political impotence.'' Mr. Steinberg, executive director of the Meadowlands Commission under Governor Whitman, said Mr. Schundler was ''far more pragmatic'' than his critics suggest.
 He may be pragmatic, but there is little question that Mr. Schundler is a political outsider. Even after serving as mayor of Jersey City from 1992 to 2001 and running a statewide campaign, he clearly enjoys portraying himself as an anti-politician, a defiant voice who prefers to sing his own compositions rather than join the Trenton chorus in a reprise of standards.
 For example, in the course of a mini-monologue about the state of politics today, he offered a critique on the fine art of redrawing voting districts for political advantage. ''Part of the way politicians accrue power for themselves and decrease accountability is through gerrymandering,'' he said in tones that had George Will's clipped delivery and Ralph Nader's populist outrage. ''You had a system where the voters were supposed to chose their elected officials. Now you have the politicians choosing their voters. It's an amazing system if you can get away with it.''
 He makes it plain that he is not a fan of this amazing system, at least as it is currently practiced, and so those who work within the system he loathes are not necessarily going to be fans of his. But he has a solution for that, too. He says he wants to build ''a much more inclusive Republican Party.'' To achieve that goal, he said, the party ''has to change.''
 When he is in full treatise mode, which is much of the time, Mr. Schundler sometimes punctuates his points with a high-pitched chuckle heavy with irony. And so he chuckled. ''This,'' he said, ''will change things. There's no doubt about that.''
 ''This'' is his game plan for 2005. He learned from the last election, he said, and has come up with an unorthodox strategy that will rely on the power of tax-weary property owners. ''This is not going to be about Bret Schundler,'' he said. ''One of the things everybody says about me -- and I think it is a valid argument -- is that I talk too much. Well, the approach we're going to take is that it won't be me talking.'' 
 While its idealism and even naivete would put a frown on the face of, say, Niccolo Machiavelli, Mr. Schundler's approach certainly is different. To counter Governor McGreevey's probable advantage in his ability to raise large sums of money and flood television viewers with campaign ads, Mr. Schundler hopes to assemble an army of outraged citizens willing to circulate petitions calling on the state Legislature to pass two amendments to the state Constitution designed to limit the growth of government spending and increase local aid to reduce property taxes.

A Plan on Spending
 Under Mr. Schundler's proposal, voters would have to approve per-capita spending increases of more than 1.3 times the inflation rate for school districts, local governments and Trenton. The petitions would have no legal standing, since an amendment requires legislative approval.
 The idea of constitutional speed bumps on public spending is not unique to Mr. Schundler. One of his possible opponents in a Republican primary, Senator Diane Allen of Burlington County, has proposed an amendment on spending limits that is tied to the inflation rate and state population growth. The Legislature, in the meantime, recently passed a state budget that increased spending by 16 percent -- well above the inflation rate.
 Mr. Schundler believes the petition drive on behalf what he calls the ''return the money'' amendments will set the tone for Campaign '05, and will dovetail with his own effort to unseat Mr. McGreevey. 
 ''The point will be simple, carried from one neighbor to another,'' he said. ''If we pull this off, it won't be because of an imperfect politician like me who may talk too much, because we're not going to rely on me.'' 
 If nothing else, Mr. Schundler seems determined to capture the self-effacing vote.
 Although -- or, his true-believing supporters say, because -- he is devoted to the gospel of low taxes and smaller government, Mr. Schundler may have a hard time selling his wares to mainstream Republicans in New Jersey. ''Imperfect'' is not the adjective many of them choose when speaking about Mr. Schundler privately, because it seems too gentle.
 Mr. Schundler, with show-off intelligence and an enthusiasm for urban issues that are hardly the bread and butter of Republican politics in New Jersey, is aware that he has alienated the suburban, moderate Republicans who dominate the party's leadership. So he picks his words carefully, or keeps them private, when talking about previous Republican administrations in Trenton. It is no secret, however, that Mr. DiFrancesco and Mr. Schundler do not like each other, and that some veterans of the Kean and Whitman administrations were horrified to see him at the top of the ticket in 2001.
 The Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, another possible candidate for the Republican gubernatorial nomination, acknowledged that Mr. Schundler ''is one of the persons who has been mentioned'' as a challenger to Mr. McGreevey. But Mr. Lance, of Hunterdon County, preferred to talk about Mr. Schundler's role as a co-plaintiff in a Republican lawsuit challenging the governor's plan to borrow $1.9 billion to cover expenses in this year's budget.

A Patina of Unity
 ''He is involved in that effort, and from my perspective, the Republican Party has never been more unified that it is now on this matter,'' Mr. Lance said.
 Few political observers expect those warm and fuzzy feelings of mutual affection to last beyond the presidential election, when the gubernatorial campaign begins in earnest. Mr. Schundler will almost certainly face a challenge from a candidate, and possible more than one, considered more moderate and therefore more electable. In addition to Mr. Lance and Ms. Allen, Douglas Forrester -- the West Windsor businessman who was ahead of the Democratic incumbent, Robert Torricelli, in the United States Senate race in 2002 but ultimately lost to Mr. Torricelli's 11th-hour replacement, Frank Lautenberg -- is seriously considering another statewide race. And State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr. has not ruled out a campaign. 
 Several lesser-known Republicans are also in the mix, including Assemblyman Paul DiGaetano; John Murphy, a Morris County freeholder; and Robert Schroeder, a businessman and Washington Township council member in Bergen County. And, of course, there is Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney, whose ambitions remain a matter of speculation.
 So Republicans face the prospect of another bruising gubernatorial primary, which would very likely work in the favor of the 45-year-old Mr. Schundler. He has a strong base as well as high name recognition, and has been working in the fields for three years. With the other candidates splitting a very limited number of primary voters two or three ways, Mr. Schundler could win with less than 50 percent of the vote. 
 Even if the Republicans were to unite behind one candidate with the aim of stopping Mr. Schundler, precedent is not on their side. After all, Mr. Schundler beat Mr. Franks head to head in the 2001 primary. ''Schundler's strong base gives him a big advantage in a multi-candidate field,'' Professor Marbach said. ''He could win with a little over 40 percent of the vote.''
 Perhaps that is why some Democrats are more than happy to say nice things about their once and perhaps future opponent. 
 ''He is a formidable candidate who has run statewide before, and you can't buy that kind of experience,'' said Harold Hodes, a Democratic strategist. ''Plus, he's a smart politician, articulate on the stump, and somebody you really can't underestimate.'' 
 Mr. Hodes even had kind words for Mr. Schundler's years as the first Republican mayor of Jersey City in decades. ''You can get caught up in criticisms of what he did or didn't do in Jersey City,'' he said, ''but timing is everything in this business, and he was the right mayor at the right time.''
 That is a claim you may not hear from Mr. Schundler over the coming months. Not that he wishes to disavow his record in Jersey City, where he startled the state's political establishment by winning election at the age of 33. But remember -- this campaign is not going to be about Bret Schundler. 
 ''I can tell you from experience -- from hard-won experience'' -- there's that chuckle again, more bitter than ironic -- ''that the next campaign can't be about me or Jersey City,'' Mr. Schundler said. ''It has to be about a simple idea that almost everybody in New Jersey supports.'' 
 That idea is property tax reform, to be achieved by citizen pressure to pass the return-the-money amendments and the election of the return-the-money candidate, Mr. Schundler.
 If Mr. Schundler wants to look ahead rather than behind in the coming campaign, he will have to exercise extraordinary self-control, because he loves to talk about Jersey City. In a 90-minute, neighborhood-by-neighborhood tour of the city, he pointed out charter schools built during his tenure, housing developments that rose on previously undeveloped waterfront property and low-rise public housing that replaced the Curries-Wood housing project near the Bayonne border. 
 Each block, it seemed, prompted a surprising anecdote, a cautionary tale or a case study in urban policy. Take, for example, his own downtown neighborhood. Mr. Schundler has lived on Varick Street in an 1870's brick row house since 1985, when he and his wife moved to the struggling city from his hometown of Westfield. 
 ''This block is very diverse,'' he said, pointing to low-density public housing around the corner from his own residence. ''This neighborhood, downtown Jersey City, is probably the most ethnically diverse area that you will find in the state of New Jersey.'' 
 That homage to multicultural urban life could have been delivered by a liberal Democrat, and certainly sounded surprising coming from a man portrayed in 2001 as a ringleader in the vast right-wing conspiracy. So, too, his condemnation of large-scale housing projects -- built by the old Democratic urban machines -- that led to what he called ''the ghettoization of the poor.''
 A young woman with a toddler in arms waved him through a security checkpoint at the old Curries-Wood site, saying, ''I know who you are.'' 
 ''Well, that was nice,'' Mr. Schundler said as he waved. He pointed to the well-kept town houses, a sprawling community center and playgrounds that serve the development's low-income residents. ''I don't know whether you know it or not,'' he said to his one-person audience, ''but most low-income parents are working. They are working at jobs that make very little money.''

Seeking 'Social Justice'
 Providing safe, decent services for these parents and their children, he said, is a matter of ''social justice.''
 It would be hard to find a Democrat who would disagree, at least in principle. But Mr. Schundler's idea of social justice also includes the hot-button issues of school choice and charter schools, positions embraced by many conservatives but anathema to Democrats and teachers' unions, who fought for years to open the doors of public schools in white neighborhoods to black and disadvantaged youths. 
 A drive along Grand Street offered him a chance to tell a story of two school construction projects. The first was the Schomburg Charter School, built in about a year at a cost of $8 million, and now up and running. The other is unfolding just down the street, closer to the Manhattan skyline. There, two traditional public schools -- a middle school and an elementary school -- are being built for a combined cost of about $70 million, he said. ''What can I tell you?'' he said, deciding that his point was best left unspoken.
 His embrace of charter schools and school vouchers, and his disdain for what he called ''traditional state school construction,'' make him ''a lightning rod'' for Democrats, said Professor Marbach of Seton Hall. 
 ''As a gubernatorial candidate, he would mobilize groups that will work against the Republicans, like the teachers' union,'' Professor Marbach said. ''He is willing to take on unions -- that's part of his rhetoric -- and that gets unions mobilized.''
 While those groups would not tend to vote Republican, the professor said, ''sometimes it's best for a Republican to let those sleeping dogs lie.''
 But that would not be Bret Schundler's style. He wants those dogs to know that the next campaign will not be about him. He is imperfect, he would say, and he talks too much.


GRAPHIC: Photos: These days, Bret Schundler, a former mayor of Jersey City, is aware that in the past he alienated the suburban, moderate Republicans who dominate the party's leadership. So he picks his words carefully, or keeps them private, when talking about previous Republican administrations in Trenton. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Tagged too conservative in 2001, Mr. Schundler, talking with Bill Rodwell of Jersey City, below left, hopes to have people circulate petitions calling on the Legislature to pass amendments limiting spending and increasing local aid to reduce property taxes. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
Senator Leonard Lance (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Douglas Forrester (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Senator Diane Allen (Photo by Associated Press)
 Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); BROWNFIELD SITES (66%); REAL ESTATE (64%); GUN CONTROL (62%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); RELIGION (52%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); ABORTION (50%) Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (55%) Bret Schundler; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



354 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Long-Running Drama At the Loew's Jersey

BYLINE: By CARLY BERWICK

 BODY:
THE Loew's Jersey theater in Jersey City has seen more than its share of uncertainty. There were all the years when it was shut and threatened with demolition. Most recently, the nonprofit group that runs it has been without a legal right to be in the building for more than a year.
 But the days of limbo may soon be over. Jersey City's acting mayor, L. Harvey Smith, wants to give the group, Friends of the Loew's, a five-year lease on the building. Both the mayor's office and Friends of the Loew's say they think the final lease will be signed by the end of summer, as they smooth out issues like the term of renewal and financial commitments. But the City Council still has to agree that changes can be made to a draft lease that was previously approved. 
 ''All of the salient points have been agreed on,'' said Hope Blackburn, the city's corporate council. 
 Pattie Giordan, president of Friends of the Loew's, said: ''The biggest thing is that the city and FOL are now working together to put the deal together. The city's accommodating mood, she said, is different from what it was a few months ago
 Friends of the Loew's has been renovating and running the movie palace, built during Hollywood's golden age, since the early 1990's. But it has been without a right to the building since June 2003. In April, the Smith-led City Council voted to grant a five-year lease; but Mr. Smith, the Council president, became interim mayor when Mayor Glenn D. Cunningham died of a heart attack in late May. Mr. Cunningham had opposed ratifying the lease, saying that it was illegal and that a bigger organization would be better able to make the theater financially self-reliant. He was still negotiating with Friends of the Loew's when he died. 
 Meanwhile, scheduling and fund-raising for the theater have stalled. ''You can't do long-range planning without knowing your position,'' Ms. Giordan said. Performances and events are booked weekend by weekend and still draw crowds. The 1963 movie ''Jason and the Argonauts'' attracted some 600 fans of vintage movies one May weekend. And a February concert by the punk-folk troubadour Conor Oberst sold out all 1,500 seats. 
 For years, though, no one paid attention to the Loew's Jersey. 
 Built in 1929 for the then-stunning sum of $2 million, the theater, boasting a marble entryway, played host to stars like Duke Ellington and Bing Crosby. It was the centerpiece of a once-bustling Journal Square, remembered for its theaters and shopping. 
 For many years the Loew's Jersey languished, as multiplexes were built in the late 1970's by Loews and other theater chains. Finally, in August 1986, the theater closed. The developer that bought it intended to tear it down and put office buildings on the property.
 ''Then it became a Jimmy Stewart movie,'' said Colin Egan, the theater's director. Local preservationists collected 10,000 signatures and 200 people to attend City Council meetings. Demolition was delayed until the early 1990's. By then, the real estate market had crashed and, in 1993, the city bought the property for $325,000. 
 Friends of the Loew's had already been inside the building, patching leaks and holding benefits in the lobby. The city leased the building to the nonprofit Jersey City Economic Development Corporation, with the agreement that the organization would work with Friends of the Loew's to renovate the theater, according to Mr. Egan, who became an employee of the development corporation. The theater got $2.5 million in outside grants, and work started on repairing the boiler, the ornate facade, the chandeliers and faux-marble columns in the lobby, the vast orchestra seating and the deep stage. 
 But Ms. Giordan and Mr. Egan soon realized that the repairs would cost more than the grant money would cover and set about recruiting volunteers. 
 Today, they are in touch with a pool of more than 4,000 supporters, Ms. Giordan said. At the height of reconstruction efforts, from 1995 to 2002, around 200 volunteers ripped down the walls dividing the orchestra pit, re-upholstered seats, painted, polished brass doors and fixtures, installed a sister pipe organ to the building's original and repaired the elevator-lift orchestra pit floor. The vintage 1929 lighting board still works. Around six feet high, it looks like a modern computer board, enlarged to respond to human hands. 
 Eric Holterman of the Princeton architecture firm Holt, Morgan, Russell helped restore the clock tower and the bronze around the front doors. ''We work on lots of historic buildings, and I'd never seen anything like the theater,'' Mr. Holterman said. ''It's in remarkable condition for its history.''
 But the theater still needs $4 million to $5 million worth of renovations. Both Friends of the Loew's and city officials see the theater as crucial to the area's revitalization. ''I worked in that theater when I was a senior in high school,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It helped keep Journal Square vibrant.''
 Sept. 28 is the 75th anniversary of the theater's opening, and Mr. Egan and Ms. Giordan hope that Friends of the Loew's will be legal occupants in time to celebrate. ''This is not the first time we've had to be patient,'' Mr. Egan said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Loew's Jersey in Jersey City, an opulent movie palace from the golden age of Hollywood, still needs more renovations. The nonprofit group that runs it is hoping to secure a five-year lease from the city soon. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); DEATHS (63%) Motion Pictures; Theaters (Buildings); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Renting and Leasing; Loew's Jersey (Jersey City, Nj, Theater)

ORGANIZATION: Friends of the Loews (Orgn) 

PERSON: L Harvey (Acting Mayor) Smith; Carly Berwick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



355 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Dreamer Wakes Up To Success

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: HAWTHORNE 

 BODY:
AT the start of a municipal court session in Hawthorne one recent night, though the judge was presiding, the prosecutor was the first to take center stage. 
 His booming voice shattered the silence. ''Do not argue with me of the plea that is offered, or you will be asking yourself, 'Why am I sitting here?''' the prosecutor, Kenneth Del Vecchio, 35, said as his dark eyes scanned the audience. 
 His audience may have been small -- it was made up of people charged with such violations as not cleaning up after a dog and shoplifting 23 deodorant sticks. But Mr. Del Vecchio, as usual, was larger than life. 
 Mr. Del Vecchio is far from your typical small-town municipal prosecutor. When he is not spending his Thursday evenings at the town courthouse, he divides his time between careers as a criminal defense lawyer, independent filmmaker -- with four movies to date -- and author. 
 He has written two criminal suspense novels, ''Revelation in the Wilderness'' (AuthorHouse) and ''Pride and Loyalty'' (AuthorHouse), which he made into movies in which he also appears. (In true Hitchcockian-fashion Mr. Del Vecchio turns up in all his flicks.) He has just completed a movie that, like his previous three, has drawn notable actors even without making it beyond the festival circuit. 
 Although Mr. Del Vecchio's professional multi-tasking seems to be paying off, in a manner of speaking, he is still looking for his breakthrough project. 
 He may have found it. For the first time, a major publisher bought a book and released it this spring. Despite its unsexy title -- ''The New Jersey Code of Criminal Justice: A Practical Guide'' (Pearson/Prentice Hall) -- the book is drawing note for its use of fiction to illustrate how state statutes apply to real-life situations. Call it Criminal Statutes for Dummies.
 So far the reviews have been good. 
 George Thomas, a professor at Rutgers Law School in Newark, said the book fills a void. No other book, he said, ''attempts to show how the statutes are used in practice.'' ''To be honest,'' he added, ''I'm jealous that I didn't come up with the idea myself.'' Anthony G. Salerno, a captain on the Asbury Park police force who also runs two test-preparation and training institutes in Howell, said the book was a useful teaching tool. 
 ''Police officers who didn't go to law school get mixed up with the complicated legalese of the statutes,'' he said. ''This book puts them into working practical terms.''
 And the publisher is pleased, too. 
 ''For a book of this type at this time it is doing beyond our expectations,'' said Korrine N. Dorsey, an assistant editor at Pearson/Prentice Hall who worked on ''The New Jersey Code of Criminal Justice.'' ''We think it is going to take off.''
 A sober, informative text may seem a departure for Mr. Del Vecchio, whose boilerplate suspense novels and films prompt comparisons to John Grisham. But he is no stranger to shifting gears. Like some of the characters in his books and movies, he is a down-to-earth, straight-talking guy.
 Just before that imposing appearance in the courtroom, he gave a summary of joking around with the cops, in R-rated language. He also cracked jokes to fill the time. 
 On first blush, his energy and directness could be seen as abrasive or brash. But behind the rough exterior, he is the kind of person who would write a ballad for Missy, his dog. And one after the other, his friends and colleagues use words like ''loyal'' and ''focused'' to describe Mr. Del Vecchio, and often settle on some variation of the phrase ''What you see is what you get.'' 
 Finbarr McCarthy, who taught Mr. Del Vecchio at Temple Law School a decade ago, says he remembers seeing a man in his undershirt sitting in the back and from time to time blurting out: ''Yeo Bar'' to get his professor's attention. 
 ''In class, he was a renegade; he liked to be outrageous and do things for the shock value,'' Mr. McCarthy said. 
 ''I wouldn't put him on the most-likely-to-succeed list in the traditional sense, but I could see Ken as a wheeler-dealer and thought he would go on to do something different.'' Small wonder. 
 Change has been a constant theme in Mr. Del Vecchio's life. He and his brother, Christian, grew up mainly in towns in Essex, Bergen, Hudson and Passaic Counties, switching elementary schools six times, twice out of state, while his mother, now an administrator for a health care clinic, and stepfather, a manager for a food distribution company, changed jobs. 
 Despite his short stints at the schools, he left his mark by becoming the class clown. ''I wanted to stand out,'' Mr. Del Vecchio said as his lips formed a devilish grin. 
 His fourth-grade teacher ''made me realize I could write,'' Mr. Del Vecchio said. By the seventh and eighth grades he was penning short stories about Salvatore, the Italian superhero, and passing them around class.
 In high school, Mr. Del Vecchio's antics got him kicked out of an all-boys prep school by his junior year. He went on to two other high schools before graduating.
 At Rutgers he majored in sociology and education -- a switch (surprise) from his initial major in economics. Despite the multiple hats, there is one sole goal. ''I was enveloped by injustices and wanted to do something about them,'' Mr. Del Vecchio said of one reason he pursued law. He said that he continued with his writing and added filmmaking because entertainment was the more effective way to make things change. 
 Along the way, he met his wife-to-be, Francine, a teacher and Columbia University doctoral candidate of tireless patience who on occasion does things like scribbling down notes if her husband has a spurt of inspiration and happens to be in the shower. 
 In the two fields for which Mr. Del Vecchio has no special training, his can-do attitude and intense focus have served him well. He has persuaded television personalities like Vincent Pastore, Big Pussy on ''The Sopranos,'' to star in his movies, and has lured a laundry list of past and present daytime soap opera stars. His latest movie, ''The Drum Beats Twice,'' a drama, also features a budding screen actress, Amy Redford -- yes Robert Redford's daughter. 
 Though he is no Steven Spielberg, he did sweet talk Eileen Fulton, a 43-year veteran of daytime soaps, to be in not one but two of his films: ''Tinsel Town'' and ''The Drum Beats Twice,'' which is to be released in about nine months. And he persuaded Sonia Satra, formerly of ''One Life to Live'' and ''Guiding Light,'' to appear in ''Pride and Loyalty'' and to be a producer as well.
 ''I totally believed he would get the film made, no matter what, which very often is not the case with independent films,'' Ms. Satra said. ''It wasn't a blockbuster,'' she conceded. ''The greater payoff was in experience.'' 
 Although Mr. Del Vecchio has not yet been able to woo a major film distributor like Miramax, he has snagged smaller ones like TapeWorm Distributors, based in Los Angeles, and EI Independent Cinema, of Butler, to distribute his movies. And he showed ''Rules for Men'' at film festivals, including the Atlantic City Film Festival, where it won best comedy in 1999. He said he would be seeking a distributor for ''The Drum Beats Twice'' when it is finished.
 Mr. Del Vecchio, who feels that the more things he tries the better his chances are that ''at least one will break through,'' finally may have a full plate. But ever the master planner, he has a back-up back-up plan: teaching. He has received a certification to teach social studies to middle and secondary school students in New Jersey. 
 That certification may just gather dust, if supporters have anything to do with it. Mr. Del Vecchio has rallied investors including John Kearney, an old law partner and buddy. 
 Mr. Del Vecchio always knew how to make money, ''to be a rainmaker,'' Mr. Kearney said. 
 ''He has been zealously working all his life to make some impression, to make a difference. Right now, he's a work in progress, but it is only a matter of time,'' Mr. Kearney said, leaving the listener to fill in the rest.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth Del Vecchio's collected works. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FILM (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); SHOPLIFTING (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); POLICE FORCES (63%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (53%) Crime and Criminals; Biographical Information; Books and Literature

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine; Kenneth Del Vecchio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



356 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POSTCARDS FROM THE SHORE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Digging Deeper for a Scoop

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: HAVEN BEACH 

 BODY:
EVERY summer evening, customers gather at Honey Bubbles like sprinkles on a banana split. 
 The landmark ice cream parlor -- situated on a fairly open stretch of Long Beach Boulevard midway between Ship Bottom and Beach Haven -- is known for its wide panoply of flavors and more than three dozen toppings, from Gummi Bears to Heath Bar pieces to traditional sprinkles.
 Yet this summer, despite a healthy economy and weather that has been more good than bad, the owner of Honey Bubbles, Don Meisner, could be a lot happier.
 ''I feel all beat up,'' Mr. Meisner said one recent day. ''Everything, especially everything with butter fat, is so far up in price it's unbelievable. I've had to increase just about everything 15 to 20 percent, and that isn't enough to cover costs. I already feel business slipping, just slipping away.'' 
 Call it the coastal cone crisis, or maybe the waffle cone Waterloo. Over the last few years, vacationers at the Shore have been faced with higher prices for dinners, beach tags and, to be sure, rentals. But this year, the major price rise is hitting them where it really hurts -- at their favorite ice cream joints.
 As Mr. Meisner noted, nearly everything that goes into an ice cream cone, sundae or shake is much more expensive. From milk to vanilla to butter to cocoa, various disasters and sundry excuses have driven costs skyward. The rising price of gasoline has not helped, since some distributors cite that phenomenon as a reason to raise their delivery rates.
 Consumers have noted rising prices of milk at the grocery store, but Shore purveyors of ice cream say that that is nothing compared with what they have seen on the wholesale level for the sophisticated high-fat creams they use in their businesses.
 ''Last summer, the cream we use cost $29 for five gallons,'' said Mary Goldenthal, whose family runs Springer's in Stone Harbor, where on steamy summer evenings the line winds a block or more down Third Avenue. ''Today it is $43.75 for that same five gallons.'' 
 Ms. Goldenthal said that in the preceding two decades, the price of cream had remained pretty stable, though the costs of other ingredients had risen regularly, albeit moderately.
 But then there was the price of vanilla. Madagascar, which in good years produces 60 percent of the world's supply of vanilla beans, has been hit by two devastating tropical storms in the last several years.
 ''Two years ago, the price of a gallon of extract was $65,'' said Linda Utterback, the executive director of the National Ice Cream Retailers Association in Rolling Meadows, Ill. ''Then the cyclone hit and it went to $150 a gallon. Then the new crop didn't flower properly and last year it went to $300 a gallon. In March, there was another cyclone. Now, if you can buy it, a gallon of vanilla extract is $430.''
 And, Ms. Utterback said, the cost of cocoa is at a 17-year high because of war in West Africa, particularly in Ivory Coast, as well as bad weather in South America. 
 There are some ways of getting around these rising prices, though they are not pleasant. For instance, Springer's often uses imitation vanilla. And Nagle's, an old-fashioned ice-cream parlor in Ocean Grove, buys its ingredients judiciously, concentrating on its better-selling flavors like butter pecan and mint chocolate chip, said the chef there, Nick Glaydura.
 ''But we have tried to hold the line,'' Mr. Glaydura said. ''We're still getting the same $2.30 for a single-dip cone, same as last year. Business seems pretty good, though. We have six scoopers at night and these kids have their hands pretty sore when they are finished.''
 Yet for Ms. Goldenthal of Springer's, the reasons for the sudden price increase in the kind of creams she uses are unclear.
 ''They say some of this has to do with mad cow disease in Canada and some is just because prices haven't gone up for a while, squeezing dairy farmers,'' she said. 
 Ms. Utterback said that production of some bovine growth hormones was stopped for a short time last year by the Food and Drug Administration after inconsistencies in the products were discovered. And she acknowledged that many in Canada had to stop either production or exportation of cream to the United States because of the mad cow scare.
 In addition, she said, there are fewer dairy farms in the United States these days. 
 While all these factors affect large chains like Baskin-Robbins, it is the smaller, seasonal retailers who really feel the price increases.
 ''We're like home to some people, so they are shocked when we raise prices,'' said Mr. Meisner of Honey Bubbles. He now charges $3 for his single scoops, up from $2.50 last summer. He has not raised the prices for toppings, however, and customers can still get a generous helping of Reese's pieces or various chips for 75 cents.
 ''I'm guessing that people who used to come in five times a week are now down to four,'' he said. ''That's still pretty good, but they can't be too pleased with the prices.''
 At Springer's one recent weekend, the mood was joyous, if sanguine, over the rising prices. Like Honey Bubbles, Springer's increased the price of its single cones and cups to $3 from $2.50.
 ''This is, after all, vacation,'' said Mary Jonas of Pittsburgh, who was staying in Stone Harbor for her traditional two- week family vacation. ''At least they have a reason to raise prices here. And it's such good stuff and, when you are at the Shore, even the college kids scooping the stuff night after night seem cheery.
 ''It's the price we have to pay for a good ice cream smile,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers still flock to Nagle's in Ocean Grove, left, where prices have been stable only because the owners judiciously order ingredients. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); CONFECTIONERY (77%); WEATHER (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MILK (74%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (74%); WHOLESALERS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); OILS & FATS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%) Ice Cream; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New Jersey; Haven Beach (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



357 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: One Tough Week

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
AS the week wore on, the governor's warren of offices began to resemble a busy firehouse, with weary staff members pausing for a quick bite before rushing out to fight the next political blaze.
 They were still reeling from an indictment handed up the previous week charging a fund-raiser and longtime acquaintance of Governor McGreevey with shaking down a Middlesex County land owner in exchange for promises of government favors, when federal prosecutors last week announced a complaint accusing the governor's top contributor of hiring prostitutes in a blackmail scheme to foil an investigation into political fund-raising.
 And the week was still not over. On Wednesday afternoon, William D. Watley, the embattled commerce secretary, announced that he was stepping down amid a scandal over finances in his agency. 
 ''It is stunning,'' said Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., chairman of the state Republican Party. ''If someone wrote a script like this, they would be thrown out of Hollywood.''
 Even as Dr. Watley made his exit, state investigators pored over financial records from the Commerce and Economic Growth Commission. Though no one has been accused of wrongdoing, auditors have questioned contracts awarded to relatives of Dr. Watley's former chief of staff, Lesly Devereaux, and expenses charged to the commission.
 Earlier this month, the state Housing Mortgage Finance Agency canceled a $11.5 million loan for a Newark housing development proposed by an affiliate of the St. James A.M.E. Church, where Dr. Watley is pastor, after questions were raised about whether his support of the project created a conflict of interest.
 During his tenure, Dr. Watley has received mixed reviews from business groups.
 Cherie Marce, manager of government relations at the state Chamber of Commerce, said, ''I handle international trade here, and things have gone very smoothly.''
 But other corporate groups have contended that Dr. Watley was not a strong advocate for business, particularly in battles over increased state corporate taxes.
 ''The silence heard from the commerce commission during recent budget talks was deafening,'' said Richard Goldberg, president of the Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey.
 Arguments about Dr. Watley's performance aside, the governor continues to be plagued by problems with high-level appointees. In two and a half years in office, he has watched the political explosion of the state police director, homeland security adviser, chief of staff, chief counsel and nominee to head the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
 ''Unfortunately, this resume with negative references on it continues to grow,'' said David Rebovich, managing director of the Rider Institute for New Jersey Politics.
 So far, the governor has argued that he had nothing to do with the most recent problems that have cropped up. In the case of Charles Kushner -- the contributor who was nominated to head the Port Authority and is accused by federal authorities of hiring prostitutes -- -- the governor and the United States attorney have both said that the case does not involve Mr. McGreevey. Still, political observers say that it will be difficult for Mr. McGreevey to distance himself from these scandals in the eyes of the voters.
 Mr. Rebovich said the governor runs the risk that people will believe ''circumstances have gotten away from him.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Political Missteps''Since taking office in January 2002, Governor McGreevey has been plagued by a series of embarrassing political scandals and missteps involving aides, acquaintances and prospective appointees.William D. WatleyResigned as secretary of the Commerce and Economic Growth Commission amid an investigation into his former chief of staff and questions surrounding a loan for $11.5 million, later withdrawn, to a company affiliated with the St. James A.M.E. Church, of which he is a pastor.Golan CipelGovernor McGreevey's first homeland security advisor drew political fire, and some ridicule, over his lack of experience and qualifications. After federal officials said Mr. Cipel, an Israeli citizen, would not qualify for a high security clearance, the governor transferred him to another job.Joseph SantiagoThe fiery Newark police director, who frequently clashed with unions, individual troopers and the attorney general's office, was forced out as state police director after troopers claimed he retaliated against them for their role in conducting a required investigation into his background.Peter C. HarveyMr. Harvey was fined by the state's Executive Commission on Ethical Standards for improperly accepting boxing tickets from promoters and sharply criticized by a state Supreme Court justice for accepting a plea agreement in a politically sensitive investigation.Roger ChughA campaign aide to Mr. McGreevey in 2001, Mr. Chugh was named to a top job at the Department of State, but resigned and subsequently came under investigation over accusations that he strong-armed businesses in exchange for political contributions.David D'AmianoMr. D'Amiano, a Democratic fund-raiser and longtime acquaintance of Governor McGreevey, was indicted on charges that he solicited $40,000 in campaign contributions from a landowner in exchange for government favors.Gary Taffet and Paul LevinsohnMr. Taffett, left, the governor's chief of staff, and Mr. Levinsohn, right, his chief counsel, who both resigned, and a federal grand jury is considering whether the two men used their government positions to inflate the value of their company, which owned more than a dozen billboards around the state. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Mr. Taffett with civil insider-trading violations, alleging that he earned more than $250,000 from stock tradesCharles KushnerMr. Kusher, the governor's top campaign contributor in 2001, withdrew his name from consideration as chairman of the Port Authority amid accusations that he violated campaign finance laws. Last week prosecutors charged him with hiring a prostitute to try to thwart a federal investigation.(Photos by Tony Kurdzuk/The Star-Ledger [Cipel], Marko Georgiev for The New York Times [D'Amiano], Associated Press [Harvey], Keith Meyers/The New York Times [Santiago, Taffet].)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXTORTION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); ETHICS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%); PROSTITUTION (55%) Politics and Government; Ethics

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%)

PERSON: JOEL V STAFF (58%); JOHN SULLIVAN (57%) James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



358 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Sally Field's Third Career

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
YOU know Sally Field. You should; you grew up with her. She's ''Gidget'' and ''The Flying Nun.'' She's ''Sybil'' and ''Norma Rae.'' She's the nurse's manic-depressive mother in ''E.R.'' and even the wife of the adulterous architect in Edward Albee's play ''The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?''
 But Sally Field as Amanda Wingfield, the haunted, scheming mother in ''The Glass Menagerie''? That's a Sally Field you've never met. She is scaling the mountain of a role in a revival at the Kennedy Center that opens on Thursday and is part of the center's summer-long festival, ''Tennessee Williams Explored.'' The production, now in previews and directed by Gregory Mosher, runs through Aug. 8.
 As Stevie in Mr. Albee's play, the perfect wife of a man who just happens to fall in love with a goat, Ms. Field dazzled Broadway two years ago, delivering angry, arioso dialogue with a fierceness that surprised and delighted critics. A new career path opened up. 
 ''I have a long way to go,'' Ms. Field said over a lunch here the other day of half a Caesar salad with shrimp. ''But it's never too late to be what you might have been.''
 She began her career in silly sitcoms, but Ms. Field long ago established her acting credentials, beginning with ''Sybil,'' the groundbreaking 1976 television movie about sexual abuse and multiple-personality disorder. Still, she is quick to acknowledge that Amanda -- with her lost dreams, invalid daughter, discontented poet of a son and the ''gentleman caller'' who arrives too late to change their trapped existence -- is a special challenge.
 ''There are a handful of roles that if your heart has always been that you want to be a real actor -- what I consider that to be -- then somewhere inside you, you want to conquer a few things, to get your feet in them,'' Ms. Field said, by way of explaining why she said yes when Mr. Mosher called to offer her the part. ''And whether you ever conquer them, I don't know. It's like saying you want to conquer 'Hamlet' or 'Medea' or 'King Lear.' You just want to start trying.''
 Ms. Field has wanted to start trying for years. In the late 1960's, miserable in her second hit sitcom, as Sister Bertrille in ''The Flying Nun,'' she went one night with Madeleine Sherwood, the Broadway veteran who played her Mother Superior, to the Hollywood branch of the Actor's Studio. It was the start of a long education with the teacher Lee Strasberg -- and of a dual acting existence that in some ways persisted through three decades of increasingly demanding television and movie roles, culminating in her Broadway debut as Mercedes Ruehl's replacement in ''The Goat.''
 ''I lived this very odd life of doing 'The Flying Nun' in the day and, literally, Sartre, at night,'' Ms. Field recalled. ''And I'm not saying I understood it. But I wanted to do things like 'The Respectful Prostitute,' '' by Sartre. ''It was a very important time in my life.''
 Ms. Field has now been famous for almost 40 years. She has two Oscars and two Emmys. She looks younger than her 57 years, with no obvious help beyond good genes, good diet and good luck. Again and again, audiences and critics have proved that they like her -- they really, well, you know.
 But given the cultural and economic realities of Hollywood, the scripts she gets now are not so great. ''Oh, just awful ones!'' she said, laughing. ''You know, somebody's mother that's either no character whatsoever, or so demeaning in that it's usually very poorly written -- just stupid. So many of them are like the bad mother -- which would be fun -- but it's just badly written, taking a lot of cliches from a lot of other bad cliches.''
 So it is perhaps not surprising that she has chosen to spend her summer playing Amanda, that daunting, dramatic mother. In his original stage directions, Williams described her as ''a little woman of great but confused vitality clinging frantically to another time and place,'' whose characterization ''must be carefully created, not copied from type.''
 Mr. Mosher, a longtime director and occasional producer, said he had not initially thought of Ms. Field. ''I knew I was going to be spoiled for choice,'' he said. ''I was in no rush and I just waited for it to bubble to my subconscious. And then one night in the middle of the night I just thought: 'Duh! Sally Field!' I had not seen her in 'The Goat.' I must confess I've never seen 'The Flying Nun' or 'Gidget.' But 'Norma Rae,' '' he said, of the 1979 movie about a textile worker trying to unionize a mill in the South, ''is one of the great, great American movies. That's my memory of her, as this fighter. This tiny fighter.''
 Amanda is nothing if not a fighter. The role was created by Laurette Taylor, a faded, alcoholic star making a final comeback in a performance that remains a Broadway legend -- one that the late Martin Ritt, the director of ''Norma Rae,'' saw and described to Ms. Field often. ''I guess it was just this monumental performance,'' she said.
 ''It's a beautiful play,'' Ms. Field added. ''I just have to do the work and try really hard to get out of its way and not put too much pressure on it. It will just simply be my first version of Amanda. Maybe there will be a fifth and a sixth version.''
 Ms. Field grew up the child of journeyman actors and has been a working actress herself since graduating from high school. She has survived two marriages, a high-profile romance with her ''Smokey and the Bandit'' co-star, Burt Reynolds, and mostly single motherhood of three sons -- a reality that resonates with Amanda's solitary efforts to find ''Happiness! Good Fortune!'' for her children. In the current production they are played by Jennifer Dundas and Jason Butler Harner, with Corey Brill as the gentleman caller.
 Asked what was the worst thing that had ever happened to her, Ms. Field first said she was ''too superstitious to say,'' then went on: ''I have never had my heart broken. That's probably the worst thing that's ever happened to me, that I haven't allowed my heart to be broken. I think that's very sad.'' She paused, then broke into that wide grin of hers, and added: ''I have broken a few. Said in true Amanda form!''
 Ms. Field said that Mr. Strasberg had long recommended some form of analysis to help actors ''understand their own process,'' and that she had been in and out of psychotherapy over the years. ''Oh, please!'' she said. ''I invented it.'' Asked if she had had a complicated family life, she replied matter-of-factly: ''Well, who has an easy situation? Did you?''
 ''I think people who have the hardest time getting over a lot of the imprints that their childhood gave them are people who didn't have anything overtly difficult,'' she added. ''And the persistence of behavioral patterns that are handed down from generations is impossible. We spend our entire adult lifetime trying to understand it, and overcome it, and be better than it, so that we can then change the pattern or try to hand on something a little more productive to our children. And I'm sure we don't. We just hand on a little diverse variation. 
 ''But that's why Tennessee Williams is Tennessee Williams, because that's what he wrote about. I mean, that's what 'Glass Menagerie' is: how do you love and hate the same people, all in the same breath, all at the same time?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sally Field, on the set of ''The Glass Menagerie'': ''It's never too late to be what you might have been.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 Sally Field won her first Oscar playing a textile worker in ''Norma Rae.'' (Photo by 20th Century Fox)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (69%) Theater; Biographical Information; Festivals; Tennessee Williams Festival (Washington, DC)

COMPANY: GLASS MENAGERIE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (56%) Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts (Washington, DC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (57%)

PERSON: Sally Field; Tennessee (1911-83) Williams; Todd S Purdum

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



359 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; SCIENCE FICTION; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1094 words

BYLINE: By Gerald Jonas

 BODY:
IRON COUNCIL, by China Mieville (Del Rey/Ballantine, $24.95), is an exemplar of what some are calling the Next Wave in British science fiction. The name is a sly reference to the New Wave of the 1960's, when English and American writers as varied as Michael Moorcock, J. G. Ballard, Harlan Ellison and Samuel R. Delany cast a suspicious eye on genre staples like space travel and future technology. The Next Wave -- which, depending on who's counting, includes British novelists like M. John Harrison, Richard K. Morgan and Neal Asher -- mixes left-leaning politics and a taste for horror into cautionary tales of societies gone wrong at the core. 
 ''Iron Council'' is set in an imaginary world dominated by the city of New Crobuzon, a corrupt center of power clearly inspired by Charles Dickens's London. Science and technology play an important role in New Crobuzon; the book's central metaphor is an attempt to drive a rail line through the unexplored continent beyond the city's borders. But real power lies in the wielding of magic. While golems and hexes and other conceits from European mythology figure prominently, these myths have been stripped of all traces of religious allegory. Without ever spelling out the details (any more than Isaac Asimov explained the intricacies of his robots' ''positronic brains''), Mieville treats magic as another form of technology, one that follows dimly apprehended rules and that typically exacts a cost greater than its practitioners anticipate.
 In an instructive parallel to slavery in the antebellum South, the economy of New Crobuzon seems to rely on the labor of the Remade -- criminals ''reconfigured in the city's punishment factories'' into nightmare chimeras, part human, part animal, part machine. Chain gangs of Remades are sent to work on the transcontinental railway, side by side with human laborers and members of New Crobuzon's many ''xenian'' species -- sentient creatures that resemble frogs and birds and insect-humanoid hybrids.
 Mieville feels no need to explain the presence of the xenians in New Crobuzon; they are as much a part of his imaginary society as the magic-empowered militia that enforces the dictates of the ruling elite. What concerns him is the emergence of a serious resistance movement. When oppressed humans overcome their ingrained loathing of the Remade and the xenians to make common cause against the powers that be, Mieville invests their rising with a historical poignancy that by no means ensures its success. To convey both the weirdness and the familiarity of his vividly elaborated world, he peppers his sentences with unusual words (''serein,'' ''strath,'' ''atramentous,'' ''cuneal'') that will send most readers to a good unabridged dictionary -- and back again to this challenging but deeply rewarding novel.
 Ken MacLeod is another British novelist with a bent for political science fiction. But if ''Iron Council'' offers a primer on how to use an imaginary society to dramatize real issues, MacLeod's NEWTON'S WAKE (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95) amply demonstrates the pitfalls of this approach. 
 Set in a future of faster-than-light starships, other-dimensional doorways between distant worlds, and computers that have achieved not only sentience but transcendence, this novel asks us to care about characters whose problems are as incomprehensible as their technology. In between space battles played as much for laughs as for suspense, many pages are devoted to a political debate about whether or not to return to an earth left largely empty by departing ''posthuman'' intelligences that were once computers. The passion with which both sides marshal their arguments is belied by MacLeod's failure to provide us with enough background to understand what is at stake. 
 Instead of doing the hard work of story-telling, MacLeod wastes his energies on unlikely set pieces, like strained parodies of agitprop drama in pseudo-Shakespearean diction; the hardly fresh humor here is that the far-future playwrights get their historical sources thoroughly muddled, as in ''The Tragedy of Leonid Brezhnev, Prince of Muscovy.'' Like a thought experiment with too many variables, ''Newton's Wake'' itself dissolves into a muddle of scenes that were evidently more fun to write than they are to read.
 CAMOUFLAGE, by Joe Haldeman (Ace, $23.95), asks little of the reader but a temporary suspension of disbelief. Millenniums ago, not one but two shape-changing aliens came to earth for reasons unknown. One, whom Haldeman calls ''the changeling,'' forgets its origins but learns to survive by taking the shape of creatures at the top of the nearest food chain, becoming in turn a great white shark, a killer whale, a porpoise and eventually a human being. While it struggles to blend into the culture of Southern California circa 1931, its long-range goal is to find another of its kind. Meanwhile, a second shape-changing creature from afar, whom Haldeman calls ''the chameleon,'' has learned to blend into human societies very well, usually as a soldier because it gets pleasure from inflicting pain. 
 This is the sketchy back story. The actual plot is driven by the discovery, on the floor of a trench seven miles down in the Pacific, of a seemingly impermeable artifact of presumably extraterrestrial origin. To probe the artifact, a former admiral puts together a team that includes the noted marine biologist who raised the Titanic.
 The narration switches among three points of view. Two serial flashbacks trace the experiences of the shape-changers before the discovery of the artifact, while a contemporary thread, set in the years 2019-21, follows the attempts of the exploration team to crack open the mysterious object. In time, the reader begins to wonder if the team includes one or both of the shape-changers. 
 Haldeman handles this complicated scheme effortlessly, and the ending is satisfying whether or not you have figured out who is who. If this smoothly written entertainment has a flaw, it is in the take-it-or-leave-it premise. I had no more trouble accepting two shape-changers than one. What gave me pause was the assumption that while some shape-changing aliens are capable of being changed by their experiences, others are simply born bad. 
 THE BRILLIANCE OF THE MOON, by Lian Hearn (Riverhead, $24.95), is a worthy conclusion to an inventive trilogy that the pseudonymous author calls ''Tales of the Otori''; all three volumes are set in an imaginary medieval Japan where some people, including the hero, Takeo, are capable of truly mind-bending powers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (67%); ANIMALS (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Gerald Jonas; China Mieville; Ken Macleod; Joe Haldeman; Lian Hearn

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



360 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/Long Island City; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: An Office District Slow in Emerging

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
Decades-long efforts to develop Long Island City as a major office district received a bit of a boost last week with the news that Citigroup would move 700 employees from Lower Manhattan into a planned new 14-story building across the street from the company's 48-story tower, which has stood in splendid isolation since the late 1980's.
 Still, the effort has a long way to go.
 Long Island City has for years been designated by planners as a potential fourth central business district for the city, after Midtown and downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn. Citigroup put up its 48-story tower in 1989, and earlier this year Metropolitan Life moved 1,600 employees into two renovated factory buildings in the area. 
 Much of the area was rezoned a few years ago to allow larger office buildings, and a pending additional rezoning, mainly on the edges of the previous district, would permit more residential development and larger supermarkets. 
 The proposal has been approved by the local community board and the borough president's office and awaits hearings before the City Council.
 Amanda M. Burden, chairwoman of the City Planning Commission, said the zoning change is intended to encourage low-rise residential and retail development in Hunters Point. ''We expect that this will trigger high-density office and residential development along Jackson Avenue by making the area more attractive,'' she said.
 In anticipation of zoning changes, developers have been buying old industrial buildings for use as art galleries and schools -- and possibly as residences if the changes are approved. 
 In one notable recent sale, the owners of the Scalamandre silk mill in Long Island City announced early this year that they were moving to South Carolina, and the old mill buildings were bought by a Manhattan-based developer, Time Equities. Francis J. Greenburger, the company's president, said Scalamandre would retain part of the space and the rest would be offered to commercial tenants, although he did not rule out a residential conversion eventually. In the 1980's Time Equities was a major converter of rental buildings to co-ops. 
 Some properties have already undergone conversion. The former Lion Match factory, a four-story, 60,000-square-foot building on 43rd Avenue, is being renovated for use as offices. A four-story, 130,000-square-foot building on 21st Street that lost its manufacturing tenants is now the Information Technology High School.
 The economics driving conversion are compelling in areas zoned for housing or likely to be rezoned, said Richard Maltz, chairman of Greiner-Maltz, an industrial and commercial broker active in Queens, Brooklyn and Long Island.
 He said a typical 10,000-square-foot factory building in the area sells for $120 to $140 a square foot, or $1.2 million to $1.4 million. But if a builder can put up 30,000 square feet of residential space on that same site, Mr. Maltz said, the value of the property rises to $2.1 million to $2.5 million. 
 The manufacturers still in the once solidly industrial area are complaining that the zoning changes, if approved, may drive them from the area, which is prized for its proximity to customers in Manhattan.
 Adam Friedman, executive director of the New York Industrial Retention Network, a not-for-profit organization that seeks to assist manufacturers in the city, said there is a danger that adding office workers and residents to the area will significantly change the nature of the community. If that happens, manufacturing buildings will be sold for conversion or rents will increase beyond the financial ability of small artisans or distributors.
 ''There are still 27,000 industrial jobs in the 11101 ZIP code area,'' covering Long Island City and parts of some nearby neighborhoods, Mr. Friedman said. 
 Mr. Friedman said city planners had not accepted his organization's proposal to designate a part of the area as an industrial employment district to reduce the pressure on owners to sell to developers.
 Some people, however, doubt that there is that much demand for the existing manufacturing space. Gail A. Roseman, an executive vice president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, a commercial brokerage in Long Island City, said, ''The area has changed, and the need for manufacturing buildings is not there anymore.'' 
 John Reinertsen, a vice president of CB Richard Ellis, a major commercial property broker, agreed. The overall situation in the area, he said, is ''too much space chasing too few tenants.'' He said he expected that some of the industrial space would be preserved but that ''over time a lot will become residential.''
 The ideal might be a balance, but achieving it is complex. Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a private planning group, said: ''We have learned that the most successful business districts are those that are the most diverse. The challenge is to allow for evolution in Long Island City, but also create certainty for the industrial sector.''
 Despite the general decline of industry in the city, Mr. Yaro said, manufacturing and distribution still provide about 20 percent of the jobs in the city -- jobs that are often the first rung on the economic ladder for recent immigrants.
 Mr. Maltz said that low interest rates were partly behind the efforts to buy and redevelop industrial properties and that prices might start to decline if rates rise and developers find they cannot get the financing for a major conversion project.
 The proposed rezoning will allow for mixed-use development, with housing and stores adjacent to warehouses and manufacturing, said David H. Inerfeld, a senior director of Sholom & Zuckerbrot. But this will be nothing new for the area, where a typical block may already have industrial buildings on the corners and row houses covering the midblock area. Most of this varied development predates zoning rules.
 Residential development will attract retailers to serve a growing population, and this will make the area more livable, Mr. Reinertsen said. ''Right now, the area pretty much shuts down in the evening.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OUT OF MANUFACTURING -- Gantry Park, left, and the Information Technology High School on 21st Street. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)Map of Long Island City highlighting points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%) Zoning; Housing; Supermarkets; Food; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Long Island City (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



361 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: A Market Forecast Takes a Long View, and a Dismal One It Is

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE stock market in the summer of 2008 is likely to be only barely higher than it is today.
 That disheartening prediction comes from a market-timing model with an excellent record of forecasting four-year stock market returns. The model is based on projections from analysts at Value Line for price changes over the next three to five years in the 1,700 stocks they monitor. The median of those projections is published each week in the Value Line Investment Survey. 
 Value Line doesn't advise investors about how to interpret this statistic. But since 1968, when Value Line began publishing it, low readings have generally been followed by mediocre stock market returns over the next four years. Similarly, high readings have typically been followed by above-average returns over similar periods.
 To be sure, the Value Line numbers haven't been very accurate in forecasting short-term market moves. But they have been quite reliable in predicting the longer term.
 They have proved particularly useful when the mood of investors reaches extremes of euphoria or despair. Value Line's median projection was last considered in this column on Sept. 30, 2001, less than three weeks after the terrorist attacks. At that writing, the indicator was at 105, its highest in more than a decade. At the time, many investors were unwilling to make any bets on the stock market, but those who relied on that high reading to invest in equities have been rewarded. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has produced a cumulative total return of 20 percent since Sept. 21, 2001, the day of the market's post-attack lows. 
 Unfortunately for market bulls, however, the Value Line reading has now sunk to 50, a very low level. Over the last 36 years, in fact, the reading has been lower just 11percent of the time. 
 The indicator has limits, of course. It's hardly foolproof. And because it focuses on median performance, it is not helpful in projecting how large-capitalization stocks will perform relative to small caps. If the large caps lead the market over the next four years, indexes that are dominated by the large caps -- like the S.&P. 500 -- will do better than the indicator suggests.
 Credit for realizing the indicator's market-timing power is shared by at least two people, who independently reported on its usefulness in the mid-1980's. The first is Daniel A. Seiver, an economics professor at Miami University in Ohio and the editor of the PAD System Report, an investment newsletter. The second is Peter L. Bernstein, the founding editor of The Journal of Portfolio Management and now the head of a consulting firm that bears his name.
 Professor Seiver is so confident about the indicator's market-timing powers that he bases his newsletter's market-timing advice on it. He considers any reading of 100 or more to be a buy signal, for example, while he uses a reading of 50 or below as an occasion to build a large cash position in his model portfolio. Based on the current reading of 50, Professor Seiver is recommending being only 50 percent invested in stocks. And he says he will not advocate reinvesting any of that cash in the stock market until Value Line's median projection rises back to at least 100.
 Professor Seiver says several factors help explain the indicator's usefulness. First, he says he finds that Value Line stock analysts tend to be ''less susceptible to valuation manias'' than most other analysts, because Value Line's are independent, immune from the pressures that can be found in research departments associated with investment banks and brokerage firms.
 A second factor, he said, is that few other firms besides Value Line even bother to focus on what will happen in three to five years, concentrating instead on just the next 12 months. Because so few other analysts are looking so far ahead, Value Line's researchers should find it relatively easy to spot profit opportunities. 
 ''Wall Street is certainly myopic,'' he said. ''Anyone who is willing to focus on the longer term should be able to earn a bonus for doing so.''
 A third factor, Professor Seiver said, is the ''law of large numbers,'' which holds that random errors become insignificant when focusing on many observations. He has no doubt that many Value Line projections of individual stocks' three-to-five year returns are wide of the mark. But because the median projection is the distillation of nearly 2,000 separate forecasts, he said, ''the analysts' errors will tend to cancel each other out.'' 
 And for now, the overall forecast suggests that investors should not be too optimistic about the stock market.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Distant Mirror''When Value Line's stock analysts were relatively optimistic about stocks, the market tended to perform well in the next four years.Graph tracks the following (quarterly) from 1968 through January 2000:Stock predictions vs. their returnsProjected 3- to 5-year return (Of the 1,700 stocks in the Value Line Geometric Composite index)Actual 4-year return (Of the index)(Source by Value Line)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: Value Line Investment Survey

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



362 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3592 words

HEADLINE: As Police Use of Tasers Soars, Questions Over Safety Emerge

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: NAZARETH, Pa. 

 BODY:
As the sun set on June 24, something snapped in Kris J. Lieberman, an unemployed landscaper who lived a few miles from this quiet town. For 45 minutes, he crawled deliriously around a pasture here, moaning and pounding his head against the weedy ground.
 Eventually the police arrived, carrying a Taser M26, an electric gun increasingly popular with law enforcement officers nationwide. The gun fires electrified barbs up to 21 feet, hitting suspects with a disabling charge.
 The officers told Mr. Lieberman, 32, to calm down. He lunged at them instead. They fired their Taser twice. He fought briefly, collapsed and died. 
 Mr. Lieberman joined a growing number of people, now at least 50, including 6 in June alone, who have died since 2001 after being shocked. Taser International, which makes several versions of the guns, says its weapons are not lethal, even for people with heart conditions or pacemakers. The deaths resulted from drug overdoses or other factors and would have occurred anyway, the company says.
 But Taser has scant evidence for that claim. The company's primary safety studies on the M26, which is far more powerful than other stun guns, consist of tests on a single pig in 1996 and on five dogs in 1999. Company-paid researchers, not independent scientists, conducted the studies, which were never published in a peer-reviewed journal. Taser has no full-time medical director and has never created computer models to simulate the effect of its shocks, which are difficult to test in human clinical trials for ethical reasons.
 What is more, aside from a continuing Defense Department study, the results of which have not been released, no federal or state agencies have studied the safety, or effectiveness, of Tasers, which fall between two federal agencies and are essentially unregulated. Nor has any federal agency studied the deaths to determine what caused them. In at least two cases, local medical examiners have said Tasers were partly responsible. In many cases, autopsies are continuing or reports are unavailable.
 The few independent studies that have examined the Taser have found that the weapon's safety is unproven at best. The most comprehensive report, by the British government in 2002, concluded ''the high-power Tasers cannot be classed, in the vernacular, as 'safe.' '' Britain has not approved Tasers for general police use.
 A 1989 Canadian study found that stun guns induced heart attacks in pigs with pacemakers. A 1999 study by the Department of Justice on an electrical weapon much weaker than the Taser found that it might cause cardiac arrest in people with heart conditions. In reviewing other electrical devices, the Food and Drug Administration has found that a charge half as large as that of the M26 can be dangerous to the heart. 
 While Taser says that the M26 is not dangerous, it now devotes most of its marketing efforts to the X26, a less powerful weapon it introduced last year. Both weapons are selling briskly. About 100,000 officers nationally now have Tasers, 20 times the number in 2000, and most carry the M26. Taser, whose guns are legal for civilian use in most states, hopes to expand its potential market with a new consumer version of the X26 later this summer.
 For Taser, which owns the weapon's trademark and is the only company now making the guns, the growth has been a bonanza. Its stock has soared. Its executives and directors, including a former New York police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, have taken advantage, selling $60 million in shares since November. 
 Patrick Smith, Taser's chief executive, said the guns are safe. ''We tell people that this has never caused a death, and in my heart and soul I believe that's true,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Taser did not need to disclose the British results to American police departments, he said. ''The Brits are extremely conservative,'' he said. ''To me, this is sort of boilerplate, the fine print.'' In addition to Taser's animal trials, thousands of police volunteers have received shocks without harm, Mr. Smith said.
 But the hits that police officers receive from the M26 in their Taser training have little in common with the shocks given to suspects. In training, volunteers usually receive a single shock of a half-second or less. In the field, Tasers automatically fire for five seconds. If an officer holds down the trigger, a Taser will discharge longer. And suspects are often hit repeatedly.
 Over all, Taser has significantly overstated the weapon's safety, say biomedical engineers who separately examined the company's research at the request of The New York Times. None of the engineers have any financial stake in the company or any connection with Taser; The Times did not pay them.
 Relatively small electric shocks can kill people whose hearts are weakened by disease or cocaine use, said John Wikswo, a Vanderbilt University biomedical engineer. But no one knows whether the Taser's current crosses the threshold for those people, Dr. Wikswo said.
 ''Their testing scheme has not included the possibility that there is a subset of the population that is exquisitely sensitive,'' Dr. Wikswo said. ''That alone means they have not done adequate testing.''
 Mr. Smith said Taser would eventually run more tests. ''In a perfect world, I'd love to have studies on all this stuff, but animal studies are controversial, expensive,'' he said. ''You've got to do the reasonable amount of testing.'' Comparing Taser's tests with the studies conducted by makers of medical devices like pacemakers is unfair, he said.
 Dr. Andrew Podgorski, a Canadian electrical engineer who conducted the 1989 study, said he was certain that Tasers were dangerous for people with pacemakers. More research is needed to determine if other people are vulnerable, he said. 
 ''I would urge the U.S. government to conduct those studies,'' Dr. Podgorski said. ''Shocking a couple of pigs and dogs doesn't prove anything.''

In More Officers' Hands
 Many police officers defend the Taser, saying the weapon helps them avoid using deadly force and lowers the risk of injury to officers. Tasers let police officers subdue suspects without wrestling with or hitting them, said David Klinger, a former police officer and a criminology professor at the University of Missouri at St. Louis. And Tasers are surely safer than firearms. 
 ''I think it is appropriate for deployment in the field,'' Mr. Klinger said. ''You trust this guy or gal with a gun, you should be able to trust them with a less lethal device.'' 
 But human rights groups say the police may be overusing the Taser. Because the gun leaves only light marks, and because Taser markets it as nonlethal, officers often use it on unruly suspects, not just as an alternative to deadly force, said Dr. William F. Schulz, the executive director of Amnesty International USA. In recent incidents, officers have shocked a 9-year-old girl in Arizona and a 66-year-old woman in Kansas City. 
 ''We think there should be controlled, systematic independent medical studies,'' Dr. Schulz said. ''We would like to see these weapons suspended until these questions are answered.''
 A study by the Orange County, Fla., sheriff's office showed that officers used pepper spray and batons much less after getting the guns. But the use of Tasers more than made up for that drop, and the department's overall use of force increased 58 percent from 2000 to 2003. Last week, several police departments in Orange County agreed to restrict the use of Tasers to situations where suspects are actively resisting officers. The sheriff's office is not part of the agreement and says it is still studying the matter.
 State and federal agencies do not keep tabs on Taser use, so no one knows how many times officers have fired the weapon. Officers have reported close to 5,000 uses of the M26 to Taser, but the company says the actual number is much higher.
 Little evidence supports the theory that Tasers reduce police shootings or work better than other alternatives to guns, like pepper spray. Because of their limited range, Tasers are best in situations where an officer using a Taser is covered by another with a firearm, officers say.
 A 2002 company study found that nearly 85 percent of people shocked with Tasers were unarmed. Fewer than 5 percent were carrying guns.
 In Phoenix, which has equipped all its officers with Tasers, police shootings fell by half last year. Taser trumpets that statistic on its Web site. But last year's drop appears to be an anomaly. This year, shootings are running at a record pace, according to the Phoenix police department.
 A 2002 study in Greene County, Mo., found that Tasers were only marginally more effective than pepper spray at restraining suspects. Pepper spray worked in 91 percent of cases, while the Taser had a 94 percent success rate.
 The largest police departments have been slow to embrace the Taser. The New York Police Department owns only a handful of Tasers, which are used by specialized units and supervisors, a spokesman said. 

'Gold in Those Hills'
 The M26 was introduced only five years ago, but the technology is much older. John Cover, an Arizona inventor, created the Taser in 1969. Its name stands for ''Thomas A. Swift Electric Rifle,'' an allusion to the Tom Swift series of science fiction novels.
 Engineers have known for generations that relatively small electric currents cause painful and uncontrollable muscle contractions. Tasers operate on that principle, firing barbs that are connected by wire to the gun and flood the body with current. The gun can deliver its shock even if the barbs do not break the skin because its current can jump through two inches of clothing.
 Weak currents are not inherently dangerous if they stop in a few minutes. But stronger shocks can disrupt the electrical circuitry of the heart. That condition, ventricular fibrillation, causes cardiac arrest in seconds and death in minutes, unless the heart is defibrillated with an even larger shock. 
 The exact current needed to cause fibrillation depends on technical factors like the current's shape and frequency, as well as the heart's condition, said James Eason, a biomedical engineering professor at Washington and Lee University. But because fibrillation is so dangerous, scientists can conduct only limited human trials. They must estimate the threshold of fibrillation from animal trials and computer models.
 Still, the broad parameters for fibrillation are known, and the first Taser from Mr. Cover had a large safety margin. In 1975 the Consumer Product Safety Commission concluded that weapon, which was 11 percent as powerful as the M26, probably would not harm healthy humans.
 Then, in March 1976, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms claimed it had jurisdiction over the weapons because gunpowder propelled their barbs. The firearms bureau essentially outlawed them for civilian use; no federal safety standard was ever created. 
 But the original Tasers were bulky and often ineffective. For almost two decades, they remained a niche product used by a few police departments.
 That began to change after 1993, when Mr. Smith and his brother Thomas created a company to market electric weapons to civilians. Patrick Smith, who had just graduated from the University of Chicago business school, saw enormous potential for an alternative to firearms.
 ''I just figured I'm going to go to out to Arizona, and I'm going to scratch and sniff and dig, and figure there's going to be gold in those hills,'' Mr. Smith said in an interview.
 In January 1995, the Smiths introduced their first electric gun, which was powered by compressed nitrogen. As a result, the weapon was not regulated by the firearms bureau and could be sold to civilians. 
 For the next several years, the company struggled, as concerns over the gun's power kept sales slow. By 1999, the company, now known as Taser International, was near bankruptcy, with only $50,000 in the bank and $2.7 million in debt.
 ''It was pretty humiliating,'' he said. ''We had completely wiped out my parents financially.''

Testing
 Hoping to stay afloat, the company introduced the Advanced Taser M26 in December 1999. The weapon closely resembled a handgun, a feature many police officers liked, and was very powerful. 
 According to Taser, the gun produced 26 watts of power, four times the power of the earlier model. A field test in 2001 by the Canadian police showed that the M26 was even stronger, with an output of 39 watts.
 (Stun gun power is usually gauged in watts, a measure of electrical energy, even though the biological effects of electricity are more closely related to current strength, measured in amperes. Electrical engineers often compare the flow of electricity to a river: amperes are like the river's speed, while watts are the amount of water flowing by each second. As watts increase, amperes rise, but more slowly.)
 Taser's sales rose as officers learned about the new gun. At meetings with police officers, company representatives encouraged them to receive a half-second shock to feel the weapon's power for themselves. ''These guys would leave just absolutely evangelical about the product because we would just drop them all,'' Mr. Smith said.
 In its marketing, the company touted the safety of the M26, saying it had been extensively tested.
 But Taser had performed only two animal studies before introducing the M26.
 In 1996, Taser hired Robert Stratbucker, a Nebraska doctor and farmer, to test the weapon. Dr. Stratbucker, who is now Taser's part-time medical director, shocked a pig 48 times with shocks as large as those from the M26. The pig suffered no heart damage.
 Three years later, the company hired Dr. Stratbucker and Dr. Wayne McDaniel, an electrical engineer, for an animal test at the University of Missouri. The scientists shocked five anesthetized dogs about 200 times with the M26. The dogs did not suffer cardiac arrest, although one animal had changes in its heartbeat, according to a report.
 Taser has repeatedly said the studies proved that the M26 was safe. But the biomedical engineers who reviewed the gun's safety for The Times said Taser should have conducted far more research.
 ''I don't think there has been a definitive study saying that yes it can contribute to death or no it cannot,'' said Dr. Raymond Ideker, an electrophysiologist and a professor in the cardiology division at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Taser must test more animals and vary the shocks they receive to find the gun's safety margin, Dr. Ideker said.
 In addition, while Taser claims that its Missouri study proves that the gun is safe for people who have used cocaine, it never tested animals dosed with cocaine. Because cocaine substantially increases heart attack risk, and Tasers are used on people who have taken cocaine, that omission is a serious flaw, said Dr. Wikswo of Vanderbilt.
 The company should also examine risks other than fibrillation, some scientists say.
 Dr. Terrence Allen, a former medical examiner in Los Angeles who examined cases in the late 1980's when people died after being shocked with earlier-model Tasers, said he was sure the weapons could be lethal. Taser is misrepresenting the medical evidence, said Dr. Allen, who has consulted for people who have sued the company. 
 Dr. Mark W. Kroll, a Taser director and the chief technology officer of St. Jude Medical, one of the largest pacemaker manufacturers, said Taser had adequately tested its weapons and they were safe. External pacemakers deliver much larger charges and do not cause fibrillation, he said.
 Dr. Ideker countered that pacemakers and Tasers could not be easily compared, because the Taser's shock is very short and powerful, while a pacemaker delivers its charge over a much longer period.
 Although Taser has performed only rudimentary studies of the M26, it has more closely studied the X26, the gun it introduced last year. In a 2003 study at the University of Missouri, Taser found that a shock roughly 20 times that of the X26 caused a healthy, anesthetized 85-pound pig to fibrillate.
 Mr. Smith cites the 2003 Missouri study as proof that all Tasers have a safety margin of 20-to-1 or more. But the new gun puts out a charge only one-fourth as large as the older model, a fact Taser does not generally advertise. 
 The study said nothing about the M26, or about hearts stressed by disease, drugs or physical activity. ''I think another test is warranted,'' Dr. Ideker said. 
 Taser did not test the older gun, which is associated with nearly all the deaths, because ''we believed that the M26's safety record and prior testing speaks for itself,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Could it be done? Absolutely. There's time and expense involved.''
 The X26 has become Taser's biggest seller, based mainly on the company's claims that it is even stronger than the M26 despite its small size and lower power. The company says the new gun enables electrical current to enter the body more efficiently.
 No independent agency has tested the guns side by side, and in Taser's patent on the M26, Mr. Smith himself argued that weaker guns were often ineffective because they do not deliver enough current to incapacitate suspects. But neither deaths nor concerns about effectiveness have dampened police support and investor enthusiasm for Taser International. Stock analysts predict Taser will have $15 million in profits on sales of $60 million in 2004. Investors have bid up the company's shares 60-fold since last February, giving Taser a value of $1.2 billion.
 The Smith brothers and their father, Phillips, have sold $46 million in Taser shares since November, according to federal filings. They still own $130 million worth of shares. Other Taser executives and directors have sold $14 million in stock. Mr. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner and a director, has sold $900,000 in stock. Mr. Kroll of St. Jude Medical has sold $1.7 million. 
 ''It's been great,'' Patrick Smith said of the company's recent success. But making money is not his main goal, he said. ''If we could get a Taser on every officer's belt,'' he said, '' it would save hundreds of lives or thousands of lives a year.''

Deaths and Questions
 Meanwhile, the number of Taser-associated deaths is rising. In June alone, at least six people died, the most ever in one month: Eric B. Christmas, James A. Cobb, Jacob J. Lair, Anthony C. Oliver, Jerry W. Pickens and Mr. Lieberman.
 The circumstances of the deaths vary widely. Among the six, Mr. Pickens was the only one hit with the X26. 
 Mr. Cobb fought for several minutes after being shocked, which suggests that fibrillation could not have caused his death. Some of the other men collapsed immediately, according to news reports and witnesses. Some of the men were fighting with the police when officers shot them. Others simply refused to obey orders.
 Mr. Pickens was one. On June 4, in Bridge City, La., the police were summoned to help calm him after an argument with his 18-year-old son, Taylor Pickens. Jerry Pickens confronted the police in the family's front yard.
 ''My dad, he had been drinking, and he was kind of hostile toward the police,'' Taylor said. ''He kept trying to go back inside the house, and they said, 'If you're going to go back into the house we're going to Taser you.''' Mr. Pickens who was unarmed, began to walk inside, Taylor said.
 ''They counted down three, and then they shot him in the back,'' Taylor said. ''My dad stiffened up, and fell back.'' Mr. Pickens hit his head on a cement walkway and began foaming at the mouth, Taylor said.
 Sharon Landis, Taylor's mother and Mr. Pickens's wife, said officers did not need to shock her husband. ''They could have pepper-sprayed him, they could have grabbed him,'' she said. ''He's 55 years old, and these are big burly cops.''
 Mr. Pickens was pronounced brain-dead that day and removed from life support three days later, Ms. Landis said.
 Toxicologic tests on Mr. Pickens are being conducted, said Gayle Day of the Jefferson Parish coroner's office. A spokesman for the sheriff's office said he could not comment on a continuing investigation. Mr. Smith said he could not comment on Mr. Pickens's death.
 Three weeks later, Kris Lieberman died in Pennsylvania. The officers who shocked him were the only witnesses to his death, which the Pennsylvania State Police are investigating. But Mr. Lieberman's parents said the state police told them that their son was shocked twice and collapsed afterward. [Stan Coopersmith, chief of the Bushkill Township Police, whose officers responded to the call, said he could not comment on the incident until the state police finish their investigation.] But Taser said that the police chief had told the company that Mr. Lieberman fought briefly after the shocks and that an automatic defibrillator used by the officers indicated Mr. Lieberman was not fibrillating when he collapsed.
 ''I would suspect the autopsy will find a cause of death that does not include the Taser,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Mr. Lieberman's parents say that he was troubled but that he did not use drugs. Police officers searched Mr. Lieberman's home after the shooting and did not find drugs, his parents say. Toxicologic tests are pending, the Northampton County Coroner said.
 Mr. Lieberman's father, Richard, a plain-spoken farmer, said he had not decided whether to hire a lawyer. He simply wants to know if the gun caused his son's death. ''If he was the problem, we have to accept it,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''If they were the problem, they have to accept it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kris J. Lieberman died in June after being shot with a Taser. His father wants to know if the weapon caused his death.
Dr. Robert Stratbucker, with a Taser in each hand, has tested the weapon on pigs and dogs, but some experts say that more testing of the weapons is needed. (Photo by Dave Weaver for The New York Times)
Patrick Smith, left, and his brother Thomas Smith, X26 Tasers in hand, at the headquarters for Taser in Scottsdale, Ariz. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 Clay Winn of Taser demonstrates the Advanced M26. Since 2001, about 50 people have died after Taser shocks. (Photo by Joe Cavaretta/Associated Press)(pg. 1)Graph: ''Deaths After Taser Shocks''At least 50 people have died since 2001.Graph tracks the number of deaths after taser shocks since 2001.(Source by Taser International, news reports)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEART DISEASE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (88%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ETHICS (76%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (75%); AUTOPSIES (75%); DRUG SAFETY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CLINICAL TRIALS (73%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MAMMALS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%) Stun Guns; Police; Tests and Testing; Stun Guns

COMPANY: TASER INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Taser International

TICKER: TASR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (58%)

PERSON: Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



363 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Sahar Usmani, Josiah Brown

 BODY:
Sahar Usmani, a molecular geneticist, and Josiah Henry Brown, an educational administrator, were married on Friday. The Rev. John F. Smith, an Episcopal priest, performed the nondenominational ceremony at Lighthouse Point Park in New Haven. 
 Mrs. Brown, 30, is a postdoctoral associate in epidemiology and public health at Yale. She graduated from Jamia Millia Islamia, a university in New Delhi, where she also received a master's degree in biosciences. She has a doctoral degree in population genetics from Universiti Putra Malaysia in Serdang. Her parents, Tasneem and Qamar N. Usmani, live in New Delhi. The bride's father is a professor of theoretical physics at Jamia Millia Islamia. Her mother is a professor of economics at the Asia-Pacific Institute of Management in New Delhi. 
 Mr. Brown, 34, is the associate director of the Yale-New Haven Teachers Institute, a joint project of the university and the New Haven public schools that provides professional development for teachers. He is also the vice president of the board of Domestic Violence Services of Greater New Haven, and a director of the Greater New Haven Literacy Coalition. He graduated magna cum laude from Yale and received a master's degree in public policy from Harvard. He is a son of Irene Q. Brown and Richard D. Brown of Hampton, Conn. His parents are on the faculty of the University of Connecticut at Storrs. His mother is an associate professor emerita of family studies and of history. His father is the board of trustees distinguished professor of history and the director of UConn's Humanities Institute.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RELIGION (78%); HISTORY (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (67%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (67%); PHYSICS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%)

PERSON: HENRY E BROWN JR (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); MALAYSIA (76%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



364 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KINGS PLAZA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: To the Barricades, Say Foes of Speeding Vans

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
Walk down East 52nd Street near Avenue U in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, and the first things you notice are not the tidy brick houses, the neat hedges or even the giant Kings Plaza Shopping Center and Marina at the end of the block. What you notice first are the vans.
 If you stand on the sidewalk for a minute, chances are good that several 15-foot vans, unmarked vehicles with black-tinted windows, will career down the one-way street. These vehicles, which are on their way to pick up passengers at the mall before speeding back up Flatbush Avenue, are called ''dollar vans'' (though the price of a ride has lately risen to $1.50), and people on East 52nd Street hate them. 
 The vans, an established part of the city's underground economy, are especially popular in parts of Brooklyn and Queens where subway service is limited. Customers maintain that in such areas, the vans, which are run by countless companies, are cheaper and more convenient than mass transit. 
 But people on East 52nd Street object not only to their sheer number and speed. They are also upset by the behavior of the drivers, who, residents say, dump garbage, fight over customers and urinate in the street. One alley on the block bears the handwritten sign, ''Please, this is not a bathroom.''
 Eventually, residents got tired of asking nicely. On several recent weekends they have barricaded the entrance to their block, forcing the vans to take another route. 
 This response, which was first reported by The Brooklyn Skyline, a local weekly, falls into what is at best a legal gray area. But residents describe themselves as addressing a safety issue. ''They speed down the block,'' said one man, who declined to give his name saying he was afraid of antagonizing the van drivers. ''We have children playing over here.'' 
 Some of the vans operate legally, complete with special license plates, but many others do not, which is why residents worry about getting on their wrong side. When one resident confronted a van driver recently, several people said, the driver responded by brandishing a machete.
 Most of the vans are unmarked. One of the few companies whose name was visible on a vehicle near the mall, Alexis Van Line, has no listed telephone number.
 Some drivers have been arrested, and illegal vans have been confiscated, but State Senator Carl Kruger, who represents the area, said neither response had helped. ''They consider it part of doing business,'' he said of the drivers. ''They get arrested, they go through the system, they're back out on the street again in 24 hours in another van.''
 He shrugged off questions about the legality of the barricades. ''We have to try something to get people to understand what we say,'' he said. ''I guess you fight fire with fire.'' JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheap rides, hassles and in one case, a close look at a machete. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); ARRESTS (60%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (53%) Vans

ORGANIZATION: Kings Plaza Shopping Center (NYC)

PERSON: Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) mill basin (nyc); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



365 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: A Still-Expanding Retailing Stronghold

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

DATELINE: WATERFORD 

 BODY:
IN 1984, Paul B. Eccard was working in this town's recreation department when a developer proposed the Crystal Mall, a 786,000-square-foot, two-level complex with more than 130 stores on Route 85 just off Interstate 95. He recalls that there were a lot of skeptics who expected it to fail.
 Instead, the area around the mall has become one of the most retail-intensive areas of eastern Connecticut, and now the most ambitious development since that mall was built is nearly finished: Waterford Commons, a $20 million, 353,000-square-foot complex immediately to the northeast.
 Almost 30 new stores have opened at Waterford Commons since last fall. Many are national chains gaining their first foothold in eastern Connecticut, including a 65,000-square-foot Raymour & Flanigan furniture store, a 46,000-square-foot Best Buy and a 23,000-square-foot Borders Books and Music. 
 Mr. Eccard, who is now the Waterford first selectman, the highest elective office, said the town's plan of development had encouraged retailers to develop that area since the 1960's. Easy access to I-95 as well as I-395, which is just a couple of miles to the north, gives it a steady flow of traffic. ''The reality has really outpaced our expectations,'' Mr. Eccard said. ''Nobody expected us to be drawing the crowds that we are drawing now.''
 Mr. Eccard said the retail growth is a testament to the diversifying economy of southeastern Connecticut, which was heavily dependent on military contractors in 1984 but now has a mix of tourism, pharmaceutical and entertainment businesses.
 The Crystal Mall has been busy since it opened, and new retailers have regularly opened around it, including a 100,000-square-foot Home Depot on its south border and a 125,000-square-foot Target to the north.
 The Waterford Commons complex features seven anchor stores ranging from 10,000 to 65,000 square feet, seven ''subanchors'' of 5,000 to 10,000 square feet and 19 smaller stores. The stores are placed in six large buildings, spread out over the property, which also has 1,400 parking spaces.
 ''There was terrific pent-up demand on the part of some big national chains that wanted to be in there,'' said Mark D. Mancuso, vice president of CBL & Associates Properties of Chattanooga, Tenn., developer of Waterford Commons. ''And we recognized there was a void in some stores' expansion strategies with regard to southeastern Connecticut.''
 ''By the time we broke ground, we were 70 percent leased, and now we're approaching 95 percent,'' Mr. Mancuso said. ''There's only a few of the smaller shops that are still available.''
 Mr. Mancuso said Dick's Sporting Goods became the first store to open in Waterford Commons last August, and almost a dozen stores have opened this year, most recently a Cold Stone Creamery ice cream shop that opened on the July 4 weekend.
 ''Virtually every retailer in there has told us initial sales results have exceeded all their internal projections,'' Mr. Mancuso said. One store, Talbot's, which sells women's clothing, has already expanded into adjacent space, and CBL built additional parking for Panera's Bread, a restaurant that has been very popular.
 There were some problems that CBL had to overcome on its 44-acre site, including a steep slope near the entrance to the property, where it constructed a massive stone wall that has already become a local landmark, and wetlands to the rear, where it ceded 17 acres to the town for open space, which will provide a buffer between the complex and a nearby residential neighborhood.
 The rapid expansion of retailing has also caused some congestion along Route 85, said John C. Markowicz, executive director of Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, a business group, who is also a member of the State Transportation Strategy Board. Already, he said, the state Department of Transportation has put in new traffic lights and turning lanes.
 Still, it is widely believed that Waterford Commons will not be the last retail location to open in the Route 85-95 area. Thomas A. Sheridan, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce of Eastern Connecticut, said that the area along Route 85 had become a retail hub for the region and that each new store brings new traffic, which benefits all stores and causes even more interest in development.
 Mr. Sheridan said the retail development is also spurring other business growth in town, from heating and air-conditioning companies that are maintaining the mechanical systems at the complex, to janitorial companies that are cleaning them.
 ''The ripple effect from this sort of development is usually a lot more significant than just the money people are spending in the shops,'' Mr. Sheridan said.
 The Waterford town planner, Thomas V. Wagner, said the town continued to encourage retail development in the area bounded by Routes 85, 95 and 395.
 In fact, when Wal-Mart expanded on North Frontage Road, just to the west of Route 85, the town persuaded it to participate in the extension of North Frontage Road from its current dead end near I-95, to Route 85 between the Crystal Mall and Target. The town received a $300,000 check from the retailer in June to begin engineering work on the new road.
 That will link the Wal-Mart complex, which includes a BJ's Wholesale Club and a nine-screen movie theater, with the Crystal Mall area, and open some land that would accommodate at least 260,000 square feet of additional construction, Mr. Wagner said.
 Richard S. Sokolov, president of Simon Property Group, which owns the Crystal Mall, said that despite the opening of Waterford Commons, the Crystal Mall's sales levels compared favorably at the end of the first quarter of 2004 with the portfolio average, which was $408 per square foot across its 247 properties, totaling 192 million square feet in 37 states, Canada and Puerto Rico.
 The influx of big-box tenants has helped keep the Crystal Mall customer from leaving the area and traveling to Warwick, R.I., or Manchester, Conn., to meet their shopping needs, according to Mr. Sokolov. ''We think the new development is a good thing for our area,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SHOPPING DESTINATION -- Cold Stone Creamery at Waterford Commons, which will have some 30 stores. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MUSIC STORES (72%); FURNITURE STORES (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%) 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (69%); RAYMOUR & FLANIGAN FURNITURE CO (56%); CBL & ASSOCIATES PROPERTIES INC (51%)

TICKER: CBL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (69%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (69%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%)

PERSON: Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (68%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Waterford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



366 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; SPORTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Say 'Pro Tryouts,' and Here They Come

BYLINE: By NANCY HAGGERTY

DATELINE: Wappingers Falls 

 BODY:
IT'S the fantasy of every pro baseball player wannabe getting into the major leagues and hitting that first home run, listening to the cheers of the fans.
 As a group of players gathered at Dutchess Stadium here for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays tryout earlier this month, T-shirts and hats announced some pedigrees: Westchester-Putnam Baseball, Beacon Baseball, Rutgers-Newark Baseball, Oswego State. Most were high school and college players largely unknown outside small circles, but that did not dampen their enthusiasm.
 ''Basically I'm coming out trying to get my name out there,'' said J.D. Broderick, a 19-year-old pitcher and first baseman who plays for Sussex County Community College in New Jersey and, in the summer, for the Shrub Oak Tigers of the Westchester-Putnam Baseball Association. 
 Having previously participated in Yankee, Detroit Tiger and Cleveland Indian tryouts, Mr. Broderick, a 2003 graduate of Carmel High School, was among those aware of the possibilities. Another tryout was the cousin of a former major leaguer. Yet another, Adam Nikolic, was a former minor leaguer, who last year patrolled the outfield for the Hudson Valley Renegades in Wappingers Falls. But, now 22 and unemployed, he was seeking a career change -- to pitching. 
 ''There's got to be 100 here, but that's what the dream's all about,'' Joe DeRosa, an associate scout who is the athletic director and baseball coach at Dutchess Community College, said of the group before stragglers increased its size half again. And although the participants were supposed to be 15 to 21, several were older, most notably a 48-year-old New York City doorman, Ron Bruno. Despite a few white flecks in his hair, he might have passed for 30-something, but barring a supernatural performance of Ruth meets ''The Natural,'' he would have a hard time convincing anyone that he was a prospect. 
 Nationwide, the Devil Rays will probably conduct about 45 open tryouts this year, said Brad Matthews, the organization's northeast area scouting supervisor. From the eight tryouts he is conducting, he said of the prospects: ''If I find two or three, that's a lot. That's good.'' 
 But Mr. Matthews, a retired I.B.M. software engineer, understood why so many had come. An eight-year scout, he himself was scouted while growing up in Poughkeepsie. But rather than sign a pro contract in 1972 directly out of Arlington High School, he decided to go to college. In his freshman year, while catching, he blew out his elbow, ending his career. 
 And so, perhaps with a soft spot in his heart, he said of the doorman, Mr. Bruno, ''If he drives up from the Bronx, he can play.''
 Mr. Matthews added: ''You've got to play until you think you should stop. Heck, if I could play, I'd still be playing.'' 
 As the tryouts started, the difference between amateur and professional baseball became clear. After position players were timed sprinting 60 yards and threw in front of Mr. Matthews, only 25 of 110 were selected to hit. Only 12 of 40 pitchers clocked by radar in the bullpen were asked to remain to pitch to the hitters. 
 ''There's going to be some disappointment in here,'' Mr. DeRosa said. ''It's such a large group, we just can't look at every aspect of their play. Basically, when you're looking at a young player you're looking to project what he might be like.''
 Mr. Matthews, who rated some players who airmailed the ball into the stands higher than those pegging it right to a base, explained that arm strength was paramount. ''You can always teach accuracy,'' he said.
 Wesley Sattler, 19, a 2003 graduate of Ardsley High School who plays third for the Greenburgh-Ardsley Angels of the Westchester Baseball Association, was asked to hit while his twin brother, Aaron, a second baseman who didn't put as much zip on his throws, was not. 
 Mr. Matthews said some players might be considered ''follows,'' meaning the organization will keep track of them in high school, college or summer leagues, perhaps eventually drafting or signing them as free agents. 
 AMONG the few known position players was Brent Weiss, 17, of Montvale, N.J., who is the cousin of Walt Weiss, a former major league shortstop and former Suffern resident. Brent, who hit .385 as a high school junior last spring, was scouted by the Indians and Minnesota Twins.
 Dan Khederian, 15, of Mahopac, who was a freshman pitcher and outfielder on Mahopac's junior varsity last spring, did not make it past the bullpen session. As a player for the Shrub Oak American Legion junior level team, he remained optimistic. ''I'll keep going in the next years,'' he said. 
 With Tampa organization rosters basically filled and no potential stars old enough and no older players outstanding, the professional contracts Mr. Matthews had with him remained in the trunk of his car.
 ''A kid would have to be very, very special,'' he said when asked about signing someone on the spot. Most players and parents seemed to realize this. 
 ''This gives him a chance to see other kids on a larger scale -- to see what it takes to go to a higher level,'' Joe McGee of Pawling said of his son, Shaun, 16, who plays for Patterson High School and the summer league Patterson Pirates of the Westchester-Putnam Baseball Association. 
 Although Mr. Broderick, the pitcher and first baseman, hit .450 in college, he opted to pitch at the tryout when limited, as were all players, to playing a position or pitching. A righty whose fastball has been clocked as fast as 94 miles per hour, Mr. Broderick said, ''Basically you've got to go with your strength.'' Adding that his goal is to be drafted next spring, he said: ''I think that's what everyone's dream is right here. Ever since I was young, I've dedicated my whole life to it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brad Matthews, above, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays' northeast scouting supervisor, explaining the drill. Among the tryouts was Joe Greany, left, of Orange County. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); ATHLETES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (74%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (91%) Tampa Bay Devil Rays

PERSON: Nancy Haggerty

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) wappingers falls (ny)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



367 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN THE SCHOOLS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: With the Click of Keys, Learning New Skills

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG. 
E-mail: wested@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
THIS summer Yezabel Gomez is one of 30 handpicked high school students in a special program here at Purchase College, teenagers who are designing their own Web pages, shooting and editing digital media, and working on a radio news magazine, among other media-related skills.
 Ms. Gomez, 17, is a senior at White Plains High School. The program, New Media Summer Enrichment, began four years ago, sponsored by the PepsiCo Foundation as part of its effort to provide economically disadvantaged students with digital media skills and to encourage the pursuit of a college education. The free two-week program includes classes, activities, trips and room and board at Purchase dorms, and gives each student $300 to participate. 
 For Ms. Gomez, a native Spanish speaker who arrived in the county seven years ago from Peru, the program offers a definite advantage. ''I want to learn computers,'' said Ms. Gomez, whose father is a welder and whose mother is a housekeeper. ''It will help me in college.'' 
 Dr. Peter Ohring, an associate professor of mathematics who is the program's coordinator, said, ''The PepsiCo Foundation was interested in helping the college and bridging the digital divide.''
 In his Web design class on a recent balmy morning, Mr. Ohring told his students, ''Guys, it's time to go to lunch.'' 
 But instead of the usual shuffling of chairs and the rush to see what the college cafeteria had to offer, there was a chorus of voices asking: ''Can we stay? We're trying to finish our projects.''
 Dr. Ohring said: ''One nice thing about the program is that we don't have to do recruiting or PR. Lots of kids apply. We look for students who are motivated and are good academically.'' Students are selected by their high school, usually by a teacher or by a guidance counselor.
 Whitney Ford, 16, a junior at White Plains High School, said he came to the program ''for a new experience, and improve my computer skills for the real world.'' He added: ''You don't get to do Web design at school. And it made me want to go to college more because of the independence.''
 The PepsiCo Foundation began this initiative with a grant of $480,759 to design a five-year program, with an additional $110,650 to build a new advanced media computer lab. The foundation continues to finance the program. 
 In most cases, the students chosen for the program are from families that have yet to send children to college. ''Our Hispanic population is the majority,'' said Siobhan Kaminski, a special education teacher at Port Chester High School who works with the New Media program. ''A lot of them don't have parents with a college education, but they place a strong value on education.''
 Because PepsiCo wanted to support disadvantaged students in the local area, the program has been limited to students from White Plains and Port Chester high schools, with which Purchase had existing relationships, Dr. Ohring said. But there have been exceptions for students from other districts, and this summer there are students from Wings Academy in the Bronx.
 In White Plains, students must write an essay, fill out an application and have several teacher recommendations to apply for the program. In Port Chester, students fill out an application and get teacher recommendations. 
 All students in the program take the Web design course. They also take one class in another area of digital media, including audio processing, print media, computer art and shooting and editing digital media. Each student is responsible for the design of a personal Web page. Depending on which course they take, students produce a newspaper, a T-shirt, postcards, a video and a radio news magazine.
 ''Most won't end up in the field,'' Dr. Ohring said. ''But even for doing a Power Point presentation, they benefit from this by knowing how to combine text and image.''
 The program also has a social component. Students attend performances at the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville, hike at the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation in Cross River and tour the Neuberger Museum of Art. 
 Nelson Dominguez, 17, a White Plains High School senior, says he is thinking of pursuing a career in computers. ''Being chosen for a program like this is something big,'' he said. ''I get the sense of college life, and it's been a success socially.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marissa Suarez, right, a White Plains student, gets advice from Melissa Symolon, a Purchase teaching assistant, during a computer session. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); SPONSORSHIP (72%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Radio; Colleges and Universities; Education and Schools

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Purchase; Pepsico Inc

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: Merri Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



368 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Helping a Hospital to Heal Itself

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: VALHALLA 

 BODY:
THE latest dragon-slayer on the scene at Westchester Medical Center -- or, as she is officially known, the chief restructuring officer -- is mapping out a plan involving cuts and new revenue sources intended to reverse three years of record losses and set the hospital on a path to recovery.
 The executive, Mary Brown, 53, is a consultant with Pitts Management Associates of Baton Rouge, La., which is being paid $375,000 a month for the first three months of its resuscitation efforts and $325,000 a month thereafter. 
 The medical center, which had a budget of $550 million last year, is projecting a $43.1 million deficit for 2004. Ms. Brown's plan, which entails cutting positions and eliminating two transplant programs, is projected to reduce the deficit to $31.6 million. 
 In part, she plays down the hospital's ills by pointing to those of other institutions. Much of what is ailing the 1,000-bed quasi-public health care institution is not unusual, she says. ''Hospitals across the country and definitely in New York have very thin profit margins, and this makes them vulnerable,'' she said, remarking on her company's successes in wrestling down similar financial demons at other medical institutions. 
 Yet in some ways the center's troubled history seems one of a kind. High-level officials who were involved from its inception under county control in the mid-1970's, and since then in its attempts to go private, describe a sort of ''problem child'' that inherited bad qualities from both parents: patronage and favoritism issues from its years under government management, and fiscal overreaching since it became a public benefit corporation.
 Alfred B. DelBello developed the idea for a medical center when he was elected the county's fifth executive in 1973 and served for three terms. Mr. DelBello, 69, is now a member of the Westchester County Health Care Corporation, which runs the hospital, and a lawyer in private practice in White Plains.
 Detailing some of the early problems, he said: ''The original idea was to spin the hospital off in five years. But it was kept too long and became a place for giving employment to favorite people. There was too much patronage, too much job-dumping on the part of county government, and the people in charge weren't necessarily qualified.''
 The situation was so serious that Bernard M. Weinstein, former executive director of Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, was recruited to slay the first dragons. As commissioner of hospitals from 1978 to 1990, he almost succeeded in turning the center around: he increased the number of patients; created bone-marrow- and kidney-transplant programs; and developed the only Level 1 trauma center for the Hudson Valley region.
 After Mr. Weinstein's tenure, the hospital more or less weathered its vicissitudes for a time -- at least enough so that the county felt comfortable cutting it loose financially in 1998.
 A year later, when Edward A. Stolzenberg took over, the patient load was at capacity and the budget showed a surplus. So, he saw it as his mission at the time to ''burnish the hospital's image.''
 ''World-class medicine that's not a world away'' was the slogan developed under Mr. Stolzenberg's tenure, and it continues to be used today.
 According to Mark Tulis, a member of the Health Care Corporation, it was at this point that unwise economic decisions were made. As an example, he cited the medical center's decision several years ago to expand by acquiring Ellenville Hospital in Ulster County, which declared bankruptcy a year ago and ''negatively affected our balance sheet.''
 Although the county no longer controls the day-to-day operation of the hospital, it guarantees a large part of its debt -- $170 million in bonds and an $85 million line of credit. Along with the deficits, the hospital has suffered from repeated downgradings of its credit rating.
 IN January, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, the two main credit-rating agencies, lowered the rating on a large part of the center's $278 million long-term debt to one step above junk. If Westchester's credit rating was significantly dragged down by the hospital's, it would cost the county more to borrow money. 
 Ms. Brown, explaining that the center must ultimately operate like a business and not rely on the support of local or state governments, said of her plan, ''I'm not looking for a quick fix.''
 But she did take quick action, shutting down heart- and pancreas-transplant programs, which had added prestige but had not brought in money. She said the center had not been doing enough of the procedures to justify continuing. 
 Transplant programs for kidney, liver, corneal and bone marrow will continue, however. The medical center reports that it has the largest kidney-transplant program in the Northeast, the fifth-largest pediatric corneal transplant program in the nation and the state's second-busiest bone-marrow transplant program. It has performed 55 liver transplants so far this year, compared with 26 for the period a year ago. There have been 82 kidney transplants to date, compared with 54 for the period last year.
 Proposals to increase revenue included renegotiating managed care and union contracts and improving billing practices. A reclassification of the medical center from an academic hospital to a quasi-private one could increase its reimbursement rates and result in additional revenue of about $15 million a year, county officials have said.
 As for staff cuts, Ms. Brown says that even though her plan prescribes them, the quality of bedside care will not be affected.
 ''Fifty to 60 percent of hospital costs are in labor,'' Ms. Brown said, explaining that the nurse-to-patient ratio is about 4 to 6 and, in critical-care areas, 1 to 2.
 According to Terri Straub, a registered nurse and a vice president of the Greater New York Hospital Foundation in Manhattan, a nonprofit trade group, ''those are very good ratios'' by comparison to other institutions. But no definitive ratios have been set in the industry, Ms. Straub added, and the ratio varies, depending on how sick a patient is and how duties are divided in a particular hospital between nurses and aides. In all, Westchester Medical Center employs 1,281 nurses.
 ''It's not been a matter of service delivery or quality of care at the hospital,'' said Michael B. Kaplowitz, head of the County Board of Legislators' Budget and Appropriations Committee, which oversees a panel on the medical center. ''It's been an issue of keeping tabs on the business end of things.''
 In some quarters, the layoffs are generating anxiety about losses -- not in the quality of care but rather ''the extras that are so important,'' said Dr. Jane Petro, a plastic surgeon in private practice.
 ''It's the small kind acts that go to the heart and soul of an institution,'' said Dr. Petro, who was based at the hospital from 1981 to 2001 and still teaches at New York Medical College, an affiliate of the medical center. ''That's what will have to go.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Brown is looking to the long-term financial health of Westchester Medical Center. Baseball memorabilia on display and a room in the new children's wing, the only site that the center would allow to be photographed. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRAUMA CENTERS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BASEBALL (68%); LAYOFFS (58%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Transplants; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: Pitts Management Associates; Westchester Medical Center (Valhalla, NY)

PERSON: Mary Brown; Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



369 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: The Hurdles Before the Games

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS. 
LIZ ROBBINS is reporting on the Olympics for The New York Times.

 BODY:
TO Greeks, the Olympics are their birthright. To Athenians, the Olympics are also their burden. 
 In a city where ancient statues and Doric columns are juxtaposed with traffic lights, cranes and the grand designs of Olympic reinvention, this duality has pervaded daily life during the sprint to finish before the opening ceremonies on Aug. 13.
 But whether all the frenzied activity will result in a successful Olympics ultimately depends on the safety and security during the 17 days of the Summer Games. 
 The United States and other NATO countries, plus Israel and other nations are working with the local police and the Greek Army to secure the Games and are guarding Greece's air space and patrolling international waters. Security, at a cost the Greek government puts at of $1.2 billion, is without question the underlying theme of the world's biggest sporting event during a precarious time. 
 No one entity, from the Greek government to the United States government, which is taking an active role in security for the Games, can ultimately guarantee protecting the Olympics from terrorism. 
 The preparations and precautions, like everything else around Athens, are occurring at a furious rate. 
 Although the trees are just being planted, and the omnipresent white marble is still being installed, Athens will most likely be ready, the politicians and observers say. 
 But how many people will be there for the Games?
 ''These Games are definitely going to be lighter than at other Games,'' said Don Williams, vice president of sales and marketing for Cartan Tours, one of two official travel agencies for Olympic tickets in the United States. As of late June, Mr. Williams said that 90 percent of Cartan's allotment of 100,000 tickets had been sold.
 ''They are 20 to 25 percent off where Sydney was,'' he said. Security concerns, the lack of readiness and reports of cost overruns exceeding $1.2 billion have contributed to slow ticket sales in and outside of Athens. And late last month, the Athens 2004 Organizing Committee stated that of the 900,000 tickets allotted to International Olympic Committee officials, sponsors and broadcasters, 72,000 were returned. Of the 5.3 million total tickets, 1.95 million were sold by the end of June. 
 Mr. Williams cited security, the decreased value of the American dollar and the economy in general as reasons for lower ticket sales. Also, he added, the Greek government, unlike the Australian government, did not run a strong public relations campaign in the years leading up to the Games.
 ''We expected to have more visitors from abroad, but, in any case, you understand the general concern right now to travel,'' said Yiannis Evangelou, chairman of the Hellenic Association of Tourism and Travel Agents. 
 He said that 25,000 hotel rooms in Athens had been renovated and that there were a total of 3,000 new rooms. Although the Athens Organizing Committee was concerned in previous years about a shortage, he estimated that 1,500 of the 57,000 rooms available around Athens were still available.
 ''The Greeks are very similar to south Europeans -- we decide very late on everything,'' Mr. Evangelou said, adding, ''It will happen.''
 The Olympics have indeed shifted Greece from the land of ''no worries'' to the land of worry beads; many people in and around Athens are simply wary about how the Summer Games will affect the image of Greece, as well as the economy. 
 ''I can say, I am a little afraid if there will be success or not,'' said Costas Tsamis, the headwaiter at Kafenio in the neighborhood of Kolonaki. ''We feel anxious because we are very proud of our Olympics.''
 He added: ''We'll be glad when it is over. We will be very tired. It will be profitable, but tiring. We'll work 14 to 15 hours a day.''
 Some Athenians said they planned to be out of town during what is normally a national vacation time to avoid the hassle.
 But the city and its denizens have been hassled for more than four years, when construction of roads, sports facilities, city squares and subways essentially got under way, albeit three years behind schedule, disrupting traffic and what was normal life.
 Instead of dwelling on the negatives, Nikos Konstandaras, the editor of the English-language edition of Athens's major daily newspaper, Kathimerini, said people should focus on how the construction has upgraded the quality of life. 
 ''Athens just could not live anymore, and now it's been radically treated,'' Mr. Konstandaras said. ''It's like suddenly we have arteries that are functioning. It was so congested, and now there are big roads that never existed.''
 Highways around Athens now have an E-ZPass-type system (although few Greeks seem to use it). A train will link the new, efficient airport to the city center, with a stop in between at the Olympic stadium in Maroussi. There will also be a new tram that links the coastal areas to the city subway, a stretch of about 14 miles; it is due to open by July 20. The subway, with its stops at main Olympic sites completed, is gleaming and simple to use. During the Games, it will be free for ticket holders and those with Olympic credentials. 
 The city and the organizing committee decided to spend lavishly on the competition facilities. This spending has been the object of corruption and cost overruns, and who is to blame is the subject of public arguments between the government that started them (the Pasok party) and the government installed in March (New Democracy). 
 When even the president of the International Olympic Committee, Jacques Rogge, criticized Athens's preparations recently, the project that was supposed to inflate the city's ego has seemed to wound it instead.
 ''For me it's very important that the Athenians know it is their own Games, it's their own city,'' said the mayor of Athens, Dora Bakoyannis, in an interview in late May. ''Sometimes I am concerned because they feel that they are under scrutiny, under criticism the whole time.''
 But one recent event has captured the country's fervor like none other and lifted the seemingly sagging spirits of Athenians leading up to the Games. Greece's national soccer team won the European championship, setting off an overwhelming shift in support for the Games as measured in the latest public-opinion polls in the country. 
 The soccer celebration even seemed to overwhelm the relief stemming from the progress of construction. In early June, the stunning 18,000-ton Santiago Calatrava-designed arched roof on the new Olympic stadium slid into place. That seemed to allay some concerns about the most delayed and controversial project of the Games, even if later in the month, Mr. Calatrava announced that work in and around the stadium would not be finished until the day before the Games.
 By early June, his arched walkway and the Agora, the central gathering place outside the stadium, were already in place. The Agora is as elegantly simple as the stadium roof is complex. Mr. Calatrava's arches rise again on the velodrome next door; the ramped cycling track inside is made of azfelia wood from Africa.
 Many of the competition sites are clustered in four distinct areas linked by subway and bus. The main Olympic facilities, including those for track and field, aquatics, diving, cycling, gymnastics, basketball and tennis, as well as the main press and broadcast center, are grouped around the new Olympic stadium in Maroussi, about 15 to 45 minutes from the city center, depending on traffic. On the grounds and runways of the old airport -- the Hellenikon Olympic Complex -- are ball fields, indoor facilities for fencing and handball, plus a kayak and canoe course, complete with rapids. 
 And Athens has other, non-Olympic amenities to offer. The Archaeological Museum recently reopened after a 20-month renovation following a 1999 earthquake. Thirty-two of the 48 rooms will be open, though not some bronze and pottery collections. A special exhibition of Olympics-related pieces from around the world is scheduled to open this month.
 The restoration of the Acropolis site is ongoing. Some parts, such as the western frieze of the Parthenon, will be ready by the start of the Games, but other restorations on the surrounding buildings could continue for at least two more years. 
 The small Acropolis museum, holding the fragments and statues not taken to the British Museum in the early 19th century, is well worth a trip. The winding walk up through the 19th-century stone community of Anafiotika, on the northeast slope of the Acropolis, provides a glimpse of Athens as it was when the modern Olympics were inaugurated in 1896. Doors open from the small, white stone houses built into the rock, but few residents come out to greet the parade of hardy hikers.
 The serenity is a stark contrast to the bustling stone streets of the touristy area of the Plaka, where taverna owners hawk their food and invite foreigners to dine before the Greeks' traditional late-night dinner time.
 In early June, in the upscale neighborhood of Kolonaki and in the enclosed shopping streets around Syntagma Square, where the recently renovated luxury Grand Bretagne Hotel sits opposite the Parliament building, Athens seemed a safe place to walk around.
 During the Olympics, the city will be under heavy security, populated by a force of 70,000 members of the Greek police and Army. Cameras have been installed on nondescript beige light poles, along with loudspeakers, throughout the city. Underwater sensors will be installed in the port, and divers will be monitoring the waters in Piraeus. 
 ''I don't think any city in the world is going to be more protected,'' Mr. Williams said.
 A list of hotels where officials, journalists and tourists from the United States are staying, at least from booked packages, has been sent to the United States Embassy in Athens. Hotel guests will be given credentials, and access will be limited to one or two entrances in the hotels. People and their belongings will be hand-searched with a wand or X-ray machine, as they will be before they enter every competition site. 
 Identification will also be required for athletes and fans staying on one of eight cruise ships in the port of Piraeus, including the Queen Mary 2, which has 1,310 cabins. 
 Home stays, in rented apartments or luxury villas, will not have the same protection, other than anonymity. The program, called Filoxenia, is run through the Athens 2004 committee. As of the end of June, only 400 of the 1,000 lodgings made available by Athenians were booked. 
 Athenians struggled to assert their pride despite their concerns about preparations and security.
 Joanna Mallion, 65, a schoolteacher who said she would leave Athens for her native island of Lesbos during the Games, maintained, ''We feel good, at last the Olympics are back -- it's ours after all.'' 
 The Olympic flame, transported by runners across five continents, will end its journey where it began, in front of the white marble oval Panathenaic Stadium. Rebuilt for the first modern Games, in 1896, the ancient stadium on adjacent hills in the middle of downtown, needed no major refurbishing, standing as an example of the convergence of the old and the new.
 Yet at times, the modern tackiness of the Olympic enterprise is overwhelming. Rows and rows of glistening Olympic pins hang alongside Olympic T-shirts, umbrellas, bags and stuffed mascot souvenirs in virtually every store and kiosk around city. As for Olympic spirit, Mayor Bakoyannis vowed it would come. ''We are not at the 13th of August,'' he said, smiling. ''It will be there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Panathenaic Stadium, from 1896, will be used for some events. Wall of Nations at the Olympic complex. The new Olympic Stadium in Athens.
Trams set to start running later this month will stop at Olympics event locations. Coast Guard officers patrol the port of Piraeus. The Acropolis is being restored. (Photos by Petros Giannakouris/Associated Press [tram], Thanassis Stavrakis/Associated Press [Coast Guard], Louisa Gouliamaki/European Pressphotos Agency [Acropolis])
(Photos by Christopher Furlong/Getty Images [Panathenaic Stadium], Fayez Nureldine/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images [wall], Louisa Gouliamaki/European Agency Pressphotos [Olympic Stadium])(pg. 11)
 On the course at the Olympic kayak and canoe center. (Photo by Lefteris Pitarakis/Associated Press)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); POLICE FORCES (58%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: Liz Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Athens (Greece) ; Greece

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



370 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: New York's Budget

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''How to Fix Albany'' (Op-Ed, July 11) shows that few remember that the state budget under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in the mid-1960's was several billion dollars. Adjusted for inflation, spending in 2004 should be far less than Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed $100 billion budget.
 The three-way dance between Mr. Pataki, the Senate Republican majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and the Democratic Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, continues at taxpayers' expense. Career politicians are interested only in continuing the same closed-door budget process, greasing the wheels for re-election with a load of pork-barrel spending. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Democratic Nassau County executive, is correct to target one incumbent Republican senator and Democratic Assembly member in each county for defeat in this year's election. Otherwise, the status quo of fiscal mismanagement will continue.

Larry Penner
Great Neck

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (88%); COUNTIES (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%) Legislatures and Parliaments; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: Larry Penner; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



371 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Qualified to Work in Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (''Who Lost Iraq?,'' column, June 29) accuses the American government of hiring unqualified people to work on the reconstruction of Iraq based on their personal and/or political connections. I am one of the examples he invokes. 
 Americans hired for the hazardous work in Iraq have been fully qualified. 
 I have an M.B.A., spent a year in post-Communist Eastern Europe at a newly privatized publishing house, and worked at an economic consulting firm and a venture capital group. 
 Mr. Krugman implies that these were highly desirable jobs for which one needed political connections. 
 He should try telling that to my friend and former colleague Scott Erwin, who nearly died in an ambush several weeks ago while returning from teaching a pro-democracy program he created at a Baghdad university. 
 In Iraq, federal employees are paid, the budget is transparent, and the country is headed toward a modern banking structure. Ask the Iraqis who got paid on time if they were satisfied with our work. Theirs are the opinions that matter.

SIMONE LEDEEN
Arlington, Va., July 16, 2004

The writer was an adviser to the Iraqi Ministry of Finance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); WRITERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (54%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) Simone Ledeen; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



372 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 50 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese Century

 BODY:
 I 'm sure that anyone in the United States who has lost a job or has been pushed down the economic ladder to a lower-paying job will be anxiously awaiting the consumer version of the ''China price'' to arrive here for housing, health care, food, energy and transportation. 

John O'Donnell
Raleigh, N.C.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: United States Economy; Labor

PERSON: John O'Donnell; Ted C Fishman

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



373 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Danger: Railroad Crossing Ahead

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your railroad series points to the dangers of crossings, but we should also acknowledge the fact that these crossings are far safer than they have ever been. 
 There were 50 percent fewer incidents involving motor vehicles at grade crossings in 2003 than there were in 1990, and 75 percent fewer than in 1975, despite a doubling in highway traffic in the last 30 years.
 Along with the installation of gates and warning lights, the biggest safety gains have resulted from educating drivers about crossing hazards. Sadly, too many drivers are tempted to drive around lowered gates and ignore the flashing lights.
 While more can be done, there is a remarkable success story to be told. The federal government, railroads, highway engineers, police departments and volunteers have worked together over the past 30 years to save, by my research, approximately 10,000 lives.

IAN SAVAGE
Evanston, Ill., July 12, 2004

The writer is a professor of economics at Northwestern University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL CROSSINGS (91%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (88%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); ENGINEERING (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); POLICE FORCES (52%) Railroads; Accidents and Safety; Traffic Signals and Signs

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Ian (Prof) Savage

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



374 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadow Of Goodspeed

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I live in the shadow of the Goodspeed and work in the courthouse adjacent to the site of its proposed new theater in Middletown. I have thereby been blessed and cursed with unique insight into and information about the complications inherent to building a new theater in East Haddam and the amazing amount of misinformation about it. 
 By their own admission, the current management of the Goodspeed fully intends to virtually abandoning the existing theater even if they were to build here rather than in Middletown. They have invested little in either the existing physical facility or the quality of their product in quite some time. The existing management planned on leaving behind its history, character, charm and stated goal of preserving the heritage of American musical theater.
 The problems with the East Haddam proposal were extensive. While neighboring villages (such as Essex and Chester) have enjoyed a renaissance over the past 40 years, our village has become virtually stagnant. This is largely because of the Goodspeed's accumulation of local properties and lack of investment in its community. Their proposal was to exacerbate this problem and to do it on a grand scale.
 They wanted to plant a massive, seven-story structure in the western end of the same swamp they planned on turning into a parking lot. In doing so, they would have blocked off one of the most scenic vistas in Connecticut, clogged up an already congested and confusing traffic artery and destroyed the aesthetics and economic potential of what happens to be a beautiful little village (of which the existing theater is an essential part).
 The Village Planning Group (which includes citizens for and against the project) formed only a few years ago and has consistently striven to ensure the best possible results for our village with or without the new theater. They drafted a vision statement signed off on by all of the interested parties, including the Goodspeed. Planning and Zoning in East Haddam also invested endless hours in trying to expedite the rezoning of the village as expeditiously as possible without the help of any meaningful input from the Goodspeed. They continue to do so, in a competent and responsible manner, and deserve to be commended for their efforts. 
 The question that needs to be asked is whether the state has any business giving away millions of more dollars to help a few wealthy individuals try to increase their profits while far more desperate needs (such as replacing the Connecticut Juvenile Training School in Middletown and restoring the desperately needed social services John Rowland trashed) wait in the wings.

Christopher G. James
East Haddam


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam. (Photo by George Ruhe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); THEATER (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); MUSIC (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (65%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (50%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Goodspeed Opera House

PERSON: Christopher G James

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) East Haddam (Conn); Middletown (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



375 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ROAD AND RAIL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Lipstick On a Pig

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: NORTH BERGEN 

 BODY:
THERE is no shortage of ugly roads in northern New Jersey. But one particular stretch of highway is so inescapably fearsome and despised that if one day it slipped into the Hackensack River it would barely be missed -- except for the usual backups. 
 ''It's the road to hell'' is how John Gomez, president of the Jersey City Landmarks Conservancy, described it. 
 The road in question is Tonnelle Avenue. But given the state's problem with traffic signs, it is of little surprise that in Jersey City the name is spelled Tonnele. Either way, it is pronounced TUNN-el-lee. To many, however, the road is known simply as Routes 1 and 9 -- best viewed from a rear-view mirror. 
 Seedy motels with neon signs bearing the names Spinning Wheel and Starlite and Seville (the latter advertises ''Jacuzzi. Mirror Rooms''). Drug rings. Prostitution rings. Gun-running rings. They have all operated along this strip over the years. 
 Beside this illicit trade, perhaps the second-biggest industry is the auto shops, where the corpses of cars long past their prime line the street. The hulks of warehouses and old industrial buildings and half-lived-in homes are crowded along the road in all their claustrophobic grotesquery.
 Traffic, when not at a standstill, travels at breakneck speeds along narrow, 10-feet-wide lanes -- providing Routes 1 and 9 easy access onto the list of the state's most-congested roads. Trucks spew fumes into the sky. Sidewalks are hard to come by.
 But in recent years change, however slight, has come to this six-mile stretch of road that runs through Jersey City and North Bergen, bisected by the approaches to the Lincoln Tunnel from Route 495 and the Holland Tunnel from the Pulaski Skyway. 
 New businesses have opened, like an Argentine bar and grill that serves $185 bottles of wine. Just up the road, a spot that once housed the Millennium Club, scene of countless brawls and a fatal shooting, is now a Hindu temple that advertises itself as ''a unique cultural complex'' and attracts hundreds on Sundays. A Lowe's home improvement store recently opened in North Bergen, and a Target -- the postmodern essence of cheap chic -- will open this week. Home Depot is litigating to develop nearby. 
 Next year, the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail is scheduled to open a stop at 51st Street and Tonnelle Avenue. And new overpasses have freed up traffic that just two years ago would back up around the freight train lines that run parallel to the road. 
 For now, new signals and an untangling of traffic circles have made the road slightly less harrowing. And Transportation Department officials plan a $215 million widening and repaving next year from Secaucus Road in Jersey City to Route 46 in Fairview.
 ''It's coming a little bit,'' said Thomas A. DeGise, the Hudson County executive, who travels the road three or four times a week. ''I still try to avoid it, though. It's a scary place to ride.''
 So it is not exactly a renaissance. But things are looking better, as when someone applies lipstick to a pig.
 The changes are welcome news to Mario Costa Jr., who sipped a glass of pinot noir at his bar on a recent Saturday night. ''It looked really bad before,'' said Mr. Costa, the 47-year-old owner of Ringside Lounge, a Portuguese bar and grill he has owned since 1983. ''It looked like a bomb hit.'' 
 By way of comparison, he invoked Vietnam. ''Before, it looked like Danang,'' he said. ''The junkyards and prostitutes. It was really bad.''
 Many of those junkyards -- ones with names like Hub World, which featured a hubcap pyramid -- are gone, but dozens of auto body shops remain. The prostitutes linger, though there are fewer than in years past, when packs of them stood by the road leering at passers-by. 
 Still, professionals like Denise patrol the Putnam Truck Stop. Decked out in a pink-and-white striped one-piece affair, she leaned into dozens of cars one recent afternoon to offer her services. ''You want some loving?'' she asked. 
 So why is the name for Routes 1 and 9 -- a strange enough locution in its own right -- spelled one way in Jersey City and another in North Bergen? No one is sure. The name itself probably comes from a wealthy landowner, John Tonnele, who owned property in Jersey City near the current site of St. Peter's College and briefly was a state senator. 
 When Mr. Tonnele died in 1852, his estate was valued at $500,000, according to newspaper accounts. The family, in typical New Jersey fashion, traded on its wealth and became part of Manhattan high society. Later, his grandson, Laurent J. Tonnelle -- who sometimes spelled his last name with one ''L'' -- became embroiled in a lawsuit to get $2 million in property he was owed in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Oswego, N.Y., that had been left to him by his grandfather. He lost the suit, but went on to become the first chairman of the North Jersey District Water Supply Commission, which governs the Wanaque Reservoir.
 For years, Tonnelle Avenue was a backwater, a dirt road running next to the marshes of the Meadowlands.
 ''If you can visualize it, it was all grass and muck,'' said Sol Feith, 92, a longtime Jersey City resident and former teacher at Lincoln High School. 
 Around 1930, three years after the Holland Tunnel was built, the road was paved. But that did not prevent it from becoming a dumping ground and scrap site (many properties along the stretch are still contaminated with chromium) and motel haven. 
 The followers of Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha, or BAPS, as it is known --a sect founded in 1907 -- have five strict vows: no stealing, no adultery, no drinking, no meat and no ''impurity of body and mind.'' What better place to set up a Hindu temple than in a dingy nightclub that once served seafood on a road that caters to the illicit sex trade. 
 Manoj Mehta, 42, the priest at the temple, spoke on a recent afternoon of what people encountered when they entered the former nightclub: ''Too much smell of liquor and beer, and lobster and seafood.'' 
 Just down the street, La Fusta, the Argentine restaurant that opened in May, has a tiled floor, white tablecloths, exposed brick and $185 bottles of wine. So far, business has been solid, said Jose Bruno, the headwaiter. 
 ''We don't have only Argentinians,'' Mr. Bruno said as a soccer game played on a television in the bar. '' We have a lot of American people, we have a lot of Spanish people. A lot of Italians, in fact.'' 
 The building, formerly the site of a Spanish restaurant, sits at an angle to the street, and its dining room is barely 10 feet from the rush, often giving diners the precarious impression that a car could easily crash their party. ''That's what people tell me when they're sitting,'' Mr. Bruno said. 
 Right next to La Fusta is the Comfort Suites, which opened last year and has a chandelier in its lobby, comfortable rooms and a reception desk. ''It's hard to believe how much it's changed,'' one receptionist said of the neighborhood. 
 But some things never change. Across the street stands the Seville Motel, where $26 covers a three-hour stay, and a man on duty behind a thick wall of yellowish bulletproof glass shouted, ''I don't understand'' when asked how things had been going at the motel. Finally, he said: ''Fine. No problems.''
 Of course, the question is why. Why have things improved along Routes 1 and 9? ''I don't know why that is,'' said Mr. DeGise, the county executive. ''You got me on that one.'' 
 The why does not matter much to Mr. Costa of the Ringside Lounge. ''It's ugly,'' he said. ''It's still not really, really pretty. But it's better.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traffic, when not at a standstill, travels at breakneck speeds along narrow, 10-feet-wide lanes -- providing Routes 1 and 9 easy access onto the list of the state's most-congested roads. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)Map of New Jersey highlighting Routes 1 and 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRAINS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); SHOOTINGS (67%); DRINKING PLACES (67%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (65%); HOME CENTERS (65%); PROSTITUTION (53%) Roads and Traffic; Traffic Signals and Signs; Accidents and Safety; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (81%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (81%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (81%)

PERSON: Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Jersey City (NJ); North Bergen (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



376 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Masters of the Universe, Leashed (for Now)

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
IT has been a humbling summer for the power players of Wall Street, once celebrated as masters of the universe. 
 One week, Theodore Forstmann, the swashbuckling financier who rose to prominence during the takeover battles of the 1980's, had to sit in a witness box in a Connecticut courtroom and explain how his firm had lost $2.5 billion on two investments by the State of Connecticut's pension fund. He lost the lawsuit filed by the state, but no damages were awarded. 
 Then, on Friday, Martha Stewart and the man who was her stockbroker at Merrill Lynch, Peter Bacanovic, were each sentenced to five months in prison and five months of detention at home for conspiring to lie to federal investigators about Ms. Stewart's timely sale of stock in ImClone Systems. Ms. Stewart, once a stockbroker herself, had been a director of the New York Stock Exchange before she was implicated in the ImClone affair. 
 To top it off, Morgan Stanley, a major investment bank, agreed to pay $54 million to avert a trial on charges that it discriminated against women. As part of the settlement, an outside monitor will make sure that some of Morgan Stanley's highest-paid employees take time out from their deal-making to receive lessons on the proper ways to treat the women who work for them. (Bringing strippers onto the trading floors or taking clients out to nightclubs to ogle them -- standard entertaining procedure in the 1980's and 90's -- are sure to be on the list of no-no's.) 
 For many years, being a big shot on Wall Street meant never having to say, ''I'm sorry.'' The most successful investment bankers and traders made megadeals, were paid like baseball stars and engaged in locker-room antics with virtual impunity. 
 But now, with regulators scrutinizing their roles in the stock-market bubble that burst in 2000 and the corporate scandals that ensued and civil-rights lawyers suing them for harassment and discrimination, they are being pressured more than ever to modify their behavior, both personal and professional. 
 But people who have worked in the industry and studied its ways say those customs are deeply ingrained and will be hard to change. Some even argue that attempts at reform are futile in a business where aggressively courting risk can pay out such rich rewards. 
 Felix Rohatyn, one of the elder statesmen of investment banking, deplores some of the ways in which Wall Street has evolved. 
 ''There just have been too many aspects of the business where people were kind of giving out self-interested advice, or got involved in transactions they shouldn't have been involved in,'' said Mr. Rohatyn, a former managing partner in Lazard Freres who now runs his own advisory firm. ''That has left a big shadow on what was a very respectable profession.'' 
 Many of the problems, experts said, can be linked to the very nature of Wall Street. Success is due to a certain kind of aggressiveness, said Frank Partnoy, a former derivatives trader at Morgan Stanley who is now a fierce critic of Wall Street. 
 Traders and investment bankers earn large sums by taking advantage of competitors, knowing just how far to stretch the rules and the tax code, said Mr. Partnoy, now a law professor at the University of San Diego.
 And if things have gone wrong, financiers rarely are held to account for the deals they construct for their clients, usually because they can stand behind corporate lawyers and accountants who gave their blessings, Mr. Partnoy said.
 Mitchel Y. Abolafia, a sociologist at University of Albany, SUNY, began studying norms of behavior on Wall Street in the late 1970's, and said he has seen a continuous testing of the limits. Bankers and traders keep pushing against the boundaries until investors start to wonder if the markets are rigged, he said. 
 ''That's when people say maybe we've gone a little too far,'' he said. ''We're probably right at that moment now. Certainly, the government is trying to tame them. But what they're dealing with is a deeply embedded culture.'' 
 The culture had often included an anything-goes-atmosphere, more suited for a bachelor party than a workplace. Mr. Partnoy recalls watching a managing director at a major firm offer one of his female employees $500 to eat a pickle slathered with hand lotion. She performed the task before a riveted audience and collected, then promptly vomited, he says. 
 Has there been a change? Mr. Partnoy said this sort of behavior would never occur in the office now. It would likely be taken outside the office. 
 Since Enron collapsed, regulators have shown a greater inclination to rein in the investment banks. For instance, next month four former investment bankers at Merrill Lynch are scheduled to stand trial for their involvement in defrauding investors in the failed Enron Corporation. The Justice Department has accused the group of conspiring to inflate Enron's earnings through a secret agreement for Merrill to buy some electricity-generating Nigerian barges from the company.
 But as regulators scrutinize, and lawsuits sizzle, some Wall Street veterans say that what has faded is the allure of investment banking. Michael Holland, who was an executive at Salomon Brothers in the 1980's, when that firm symbolized unbridled risk-taking, said the unrelenting focus on conflicts of interest and now discrimination has changed the spirit of the business. 
 ''There's been a knocking-down-a-peg phenomenon for people who previously saw themselves as at master of their own universe,'' said Mr. Holland, who runs Holland & Company, a money-management firm. 
 ''The so-called stars in the business are simply not having the fun-filled environment and the compensation they were used to,'' he said.
 But Mr. Rohatyn takes issue with those who argue that Wall Street operates without a sense of ethics, or that somehow morality is antithetical to the way business is conducted. 
 ''You should come to the business with a moral code,'' he said. ''You're certainly not going to learn it later on. If people conduct themselves in ways that could be deemed immoral, I wouldn't really blame Wall Street, I would blame the individuals themselves who by and large should know better.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); DEREGULATION (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); PRISONS (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); WITNESSES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WOMEN (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); ETHICS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); SCANDALS (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Wages and Salaries; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: THEODORE FORSTMANN (73%); MARTHA STEWART (55%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



377 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2193 words

HEADLINE: Why Venture Funds Don't Want Your Cash

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE partners at Sevin Rosen, a top venture capital firm, were braced for the worst last November, when they began passing the word that they wanted to raise a few hundred million dollars to invest in a new generation of technology start-up companies. After all, the venture capital business had just experienced the worst slump of its 30-year history. And if not entirely at fault for the bubble, the industry was not exactly blameless, either.
 ''Given all that's happened in the last three years,'' said John Jaggers, a partner at the firm, ''I would've thought a lot of people would've learned the lesson 'once burned, twice shy.'''
 Instead, Sevin Rosen was inundated by would-be investors. On July 8, the firm announced a new $300 million fund, but Mr. Jaggers said it could have raised at least five times that much. Potential investors, many from Europe and Asia, called out of the blue; some even provided references in the hope of persuading the partners to take their money. ''We were just swamped with interest from new investors,'' Mr. Jaggers said. 
 Sevin Rosen, which has offices in Silicon Valley and Dallas, is hardly the only venture firm to be deluged lately with offers of money. After a hiatus, other top-tier venture funds have also started raising new funds in recent months, and some are turning away hundreds of millions in potential investments.
 That may seem a happy turn of events for the tech industry, in sharp contrast to the jittery pronouncements of pundits over the last couple of weeks, wondering if climbing inventories and an assortment of other bad news portend harder times. Yet even the venture capitalists seem a bit nervous.
 ''Everybody wants into venture capital, but we'll have to wait to see if that's a good thing or a bad thing,'' said Ted Schlein, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Like Sevin Rosen, Kleiner Perkins rejected far more money than it accepted when it closed on a $400 million fund earlier this year.
 The question is what will happen to all those millions that do not get into top-tier funds like Kleiner Perkins or Sevin Rosen -- money that plenty of other venture capitalists would be happy to accept but would not necessarily be able to invest effectively, given a limited pool of bankable ideas. And if too much venture money chases too few deals, the industry may have another mess on its hands. 
 ''When the venture industry went from 300 funds to 1,000'' during the second half of the 1990's, Mr. Schlein said, ''everyone knew that didn't make sense, and assumed we'd drop back down to 300.'' 
 So far, however, very few firms have shut their doors, according to data provided by the National Venture Capital Association. With all the capital that wants into venture, Mr. Schlein added, ''we could end up going from 1,000 funds to 990.'' 
 The typical venture fund lasts five or more years. Investors, called limited partners, contribute money to a pool that a firm's general partners then invest in business ventures. The aim is to choose start-ups developing a technology so promising, or pursuing a market so attractive, that the business will quickly go public or be acquired by a more established company, parlaying a modest investment of, say, $5 million into $50 million or more.
 Once a venture firm has cashed out one of its investments, it then splits the profits with its limited partners after taking a share for itself -- typically 20 to 25 percent.
 One obvious explanation for the surfeit of cash trying to get into venture funds is this: the firms are raising considerably smaller funds. Sevin Rosen, for instance, secured commitments for $875 million the last time it raised a fund, in July 2000, and though the partners collected only $600 million after realizing that they had asked for too much money, that is still twice the size of the firm's new fund.
 Similarly, Kleiner Perkins, based in Menlo Park, Calif., closed on a $400 million fund earlier this year -- half the size of the pool the firm raised in 2000. Kleiner Perkins spent only $625 million of that amount.
 More dramatically, Charles River Ventures, a top firm in the Boston area, raised a $1.2 billion fund early in 2001, cut that commitment to $450 million, and earlier this year closed on a new $250 million fund.
 But venture is again a hot area for investment, mainly because, with the exception of the late 1990's, it has been a great bet. Notwithstanding all those billions that venture capitalists invested in disastrous dot-coms and telecom sinkholes in the bubble years -- and lost when the bubble popped in early 2000 -- the average venture fund raised from 1992 to 1994 earned its limited partners more than 20 percent a year. Those fortunate enough to be in funds raised from 1995 to 1997 earned, on average, more than 50 percent a year.
 ''If you look at long-term returns over the past 10 or 20 years, you see that venture capital provides the best returns,'' said Anthony Romanello of Thomson Venture Economics, a research firm. As a result, Mr. Romanello and others say, everyone from the wealthy of Europe and Asia to pension fund managers who were late to recognize the value of this asset class want into American-based venture capital firms.
 Until now, getting into a venture fund was hardly a problem. At the start of the 1990's, funds larger than $250 million were considered megafunds; by the end of the decade, even a $250 million fund was wholly inadequate, given the demand, so the funds ballooned. The industry raised less than $3 billion in 1992. In 2000, the figure exceeded $80 billion, according to VentureOne, a research firm.
 ''Firms absorbed money so quickly in the late 1990's that the partners would be back on your doorstep 12 months after raising the last fund, saying, 'Jeez, we've committed the whole thing already,''' said Catherine A. Crockett, a managing director at Grove Street Advisors, a firm in Wellesley, Mass., that invests in venture capital funds on behalf of wealthy clients. ''So they'd raise a bigger fund, but then be back 12 months later: 'Son of a gun, this time we're going to raise $900 million or a billion so this time the fund will last.'''
 Thus was born the billion-dollar fund, an industry status symbol in the final days of the boom -- until it became an embarrassment.
 ''In our view, those firms that raised a $1 billion, or a $1.5 billion fund, to do early-stage investing were delusional,'' said Paul G. Koontz, a partner at Foundation Capital, an early-stage firm with headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif. Despite the clamor of would-be investors, Foundation Capital raised a modest $275 million fund in the middle of 2000. ''To our minds, venture capital isn't something that scales. It's not like you can just go out and hire 20 new partners or open five offices and expect the same quality of returns.''
 That view was seconded by Paul Kedrosky, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, who last month completed a study that looked at the performance of the billion-dollar funds. ''It was disastrous,'' said Professor Kedrosky, who teaches venture capital courses in both the business and engineering schools. ''Firms either returned a lot of the money or they still have negative returns five years later or a combination of both.''
 The optimal fund size, Professor Kedrosky and others say, is a $250 million fund managed by four partners. ''There's 25 years of data that shows that funds roughly this size give the best returns, but it's like everyone went temporarily nuts for a while,'' he said.
 The smaller the fund, Professor Kedrosky said, the more a firm's partners can focus on individual companies, which often rely on venture capitalists as much for advice and help as for cash infusions.
 Today, venture capitalists talk about ''right sizing'' the industry. Firms are generally raising funds in the range of $250 million to $400 million at the same time that they are laying off partners and closing down satellite offices. New Enterprise Associates, another top Silicon Valley firm, shed 4 of its 11 partners after it raised a new fund late last year, said Peter Barris, a managing partner. Mohr, Davidow Ventures, also based in the Silicon Valley, closed its Seattle outpost less than three years after it opened.
 Moreover, the days when a venture firm might pay $10 million or more for a 50 percent share of a start-up, as happened regularly during the boom, are also over, at least temporarily. Several venture capitalists confirmed that they would now pay perhaps $3 million for a half-share of a young company that seemed rich with promise.
 THERE'S no question that so far the general partners at the top V.C. firms are right-sizing themselves and demonstrating a discipline in their fund-raising efforts,'' said Ms. Crockett of Grove Street Advisors. The question now, she said, is whether the investors in venture funds can right-size as well. Ms. Crockett said she wondered if the B-level and C-level venture firms that ''don't look so good today will be looking a whole lot better a year or 18 months from now'' when eager investors keep hearing ''no'' from funds in the top quartile.
 Fund-raising in the venture world tends to occur in cycles, but invariably the top-tier funds lead the way. The current cycle began at the end of last year, when Sequoia Capital closed on a new $395 million fund.
 Sequoia, with offices in the Silicon Valley and in Israel, is perhaps the industry's most daring firm: it invested $2 million in Yahoo and a little over $10 million in Google, but it also invested tens of millions in two companies that would later fail: Webvan, which delivered groceries ordered online, and eToys, an online toy store. Still, it ended up saying yes to only 82 of the 400-plus institutional investors who sought to give it money this time, turning away around $2.5 billion in potential investments, according to Mr. Romanello of Thomson.
 The hundreds locked out of Sequoia -- and subsequently rejected by other top funds -- may well look at lower-tier venture firms when they raise a new fund. But venture funds are hardly alike. The University of California, for instance, earned $200 million on the $13 million in endowment money it invested in Sequoia Capital's 1995 fund, but the endowment lost several million on the $10 million it put into Hummer Winblad Venture Partners in 1997, a banner year for venture capital.
 ''The differences in performance between funds in the top quartile and funds in the bottom are profound,'' said Roger B. McNamee, a longtime technology investor who recently was a co-founder of Elevation Partners, a hybrid venture and buyout fund.
 Yet an oversupply of money hurts the performance of the top firms as well as those at the bottom -- as has been demonstrated so far by the funds raised in 1999 and 2000. Because five or more years can pass before a venture-backed start-up goes public or is acquired, it is too early to close the books on funds from those years. But even Sequoia and Kleiner Perkins, which would make almost anybody's list of the top five Silicon Valley venture firms, are sitting on money-losers raised during that time, according to performance figures from the University of Michigan.
 IF there are 5 winners in a market sector and 10 losers, the winners still make up for the losers,'' said Steven Dow, a Sevin Rosen partner. ''But what we saw happening during the boom is that 30, 40, 50 companies would be funded in the same market. Five winners don't make up for 20 or 30 or 40 losers.''
 Steven Domenik, one of Mr. Dow's partners, added: ''Wall Street only has so much of an appetite for technology companies. There are only so many one-eyed jacks in the deck. There are only so many high-quality management teams.''
 Venture capitalists are now debating how much money the industry can realistically invest each year. Estimates range from $5 billion to $20 billion, but it is clear that much more is itching to get into venture capital.
 If investors appear not to be demonstrating the same discipline as the top venture capitalists, one reason may be the so-called funds of funds -- essentially mutual funds for the very wealthy. The professional money managers who run these funds are paid a fee based on the money they manage, but, of course, they cannot collect that fee if they cannot invest the money.
 ''If you run a fund of funds and you can't move the cash into venture, then you're out of business,'' Mr. Dow said.
 Others fret over all those pension fund managers who did not discover venture capital until the late 1990's. Typically, those running a fund of funds invest their own money alongside their clients', and are thus motivated to choose only those funds that pass muster. Pension fund managers, by contrast, are investing other people's money, typically according to a formula set by a board.
 ''The real moment of truth for our industry comes in mid-2005, when most of the top 30 or 35 firms will have raised their funds,'' Mr. Jaggers of Sevin Rosen said. ''At that point, if you've got a big old fund of funds, and you've got another $300 million to invest, you've got a big problem. I'm very concerned.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: For venture capitalists like John Jaggers, investors are plentiful -- more so than bankable ideas. (Photo by Michael Brands for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Paul G. Koontz of Foundation Capital in Silicon Valley called firms that raised $1 billion funds ''delusional.'' (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); STARTUPS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (63%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital; Industry Profiles; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Sevin Rosen Funds; Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; Foundation Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin; Paul G Koontz

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



378 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Companies Face Major Obstacles in Plan to Bring Nascar to S.I.

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Four million cubic yards of silt from the bottom of New York Harbor would be needed to raise the height of the property so that it would not be underwater during severe rainstorms.
 The site, once home to an oil tank farm, would have to be certified as environmentally clean.
 The muskrats, herons and ibises and other not-so-endangered species in 100 acres of marshland would have to be protected. And a way would have to be found to move an estimated 80,000 fans to and from the site, which is surrounded by crowded highways, three weekends a year. 
 Those are the major hurdles facing the developers who hope to turn a 600-acre parcel near the Goethals Bridge on Staten Island into the ideal site for a Nascar speedway with a 3/4-mile oval track, an 80,000-seat grandstand and a 500,000-square-foot shopping mall. 
 International Speedway Corporation, the nation's largest motor-sports operator, is working on the project with Related Companies, a major New York real estate developer. International Speedway has hired a small army of real estate lawyers, engineers and lobbyists, and, according to a local official, it recently offered $100 million for the property. The proposed project, which must go through the city's land use review process, has drawn mixed reviews from residents and landed in the hot soup of Staten Island politics.
 But whatever the roadblocks, promoters have long sought to bring Nascar racing, hugely popular in the South and Midwest, to the potentially lucrative New York City area.
 ''I remain optimistic, as do all of us at the company, that we will ultimately have Nascar Nextel Cup racing in or around New York City,'' said John Graham, vice president for business affairs at International Speedway. ''We continue to be very, very interested in Staten Island. But it continues to be very much under study.''
 State and city officials have been studiously neutral, although at least one official, who requested anonymity, said he expected the project to die of its own weight. 
 The Staten Island borough president, James P. Molinaro, has taken a wait-and-see approach to the project. He said that the president of International Speedway, Lesa France Kennedy, told him recently that the company had offered $100 million for the now vacant waterfront tank farm owned by GATX, about 450 acres, and an adjoining parcel.
 Mr. Graham, GATX and Related's president, Jeffrey Blau, would not confirm the dollar figure. Mr. Blau did say: ''We have reached an agreement on a deal to purchase the land, although no contract has been signed. We'll try to acquire as much land as possible surrounding this property.''
 The proposed Staten Island track would be smaller than the famous 2.5-mile racetrack at Daytona Beach, Fla., but Mr. Graham said it would be comparable to the company's Richmond International Raceway in Virginia. As part of the joint venture, Related would build a shopping mall similar to its two-year-old Gateway Center in East New York, Brooklyn, which includes Target, Home Depot, BJ's Wholesale Club, Circuit City and Red Lobster.
 Mr. Molinaro said that many people on Staten Island like the raceway proposal, although most elected officials say they have not made a formal decision whether to support it. Guy V. Molinari, the former borough president turned lobbyist, has been promoting the project on behalf of International Speedway and trading pot shots with Assemblyman Robert Straniere, who likens the project to a ''scheme park'' and has raised concerns about the track's impact on traffic, the local economy and the environment.
 (Mr. Straniere is being challenged in the Republican primary in September by Mario Bruno, a candidate backed by Mr. Molinari, and by Vincent Ignizio.)
 ''It seems very much like a harebrain scheme, or what my mother would call a schnapps idea, to me,'' said Councilman Michael McMahon, whose district encompasses part of the site. ''On the other hand, they have an impressive set of credentials.''
 There are significant concerns about the race-day traffic on the Goethals Bridge and Staten Island's already crowded roads. The site of the 80,000-seat stadium would have parking space for just 10,000 cars, so many Nascar fans, often from areas where RVs are more common than mass transit, would be forced to rely on public transportation. 
 International Speedway officials have proposed elaborate fast-ferry and park-and ride schemes, even suggesting the construction of a small light-rail system on an existing right-of-way along Staten Island's north shore to shuttle in visitors from the surrounding areas.
 A recent study of the potential economic benefits of a similar 75,000-seat speedway in the Seattle area estimated that the new track there would generate up to $122 million in economic activity. But the impact would probably be somewhat smaller in New York, where more racing fans are likely to be day-trippers, said Tim Hogan, a retired economics professor at Arizona State University, who conducted a similar impact study for the Phoenix International raceway.
 The Staten Island site itself, once home to 82 oil storage tanks, presents a number of challenges. In 1999, GATX, a transportation equipment leasing company, closed the tank farm and put the land up for sale. It has nearly completed cleaning the site of petroleum contamination, according to state officials.
 But much of the land sits at or below sea level. To combat potential flooding problems, the developers have talked to state environmental officials and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey about dumping up to four million cubic yards of silt from the harbor dredging project onto the property to raise the height of the land anywhere from three to six feet. 
 There are also environmental issues, with conservationists saying that more than one-third of the proposed site is covered by sensitive wetlands. Even if the racing developers could carve a track away from those protected marshes, it will still sit on one of 15 sites in the metropolitan area designated as a significant coastal fish and wildlife habitat.
 E.J. McAdams, executive director of the New York City Audubon Society, said, ''It's a big loss of habitat and potential habitat that serves as a foraging ground and nesting area for many wading birds, like the heron, egret and ibis.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Developers want to turn a 600-acre parcel of land on Staten Island into a Nascar speedway and a mall. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); BIRDS (77%); WEATHER (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (72%); LOBBYING (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); RETAILERS (68%); CITIES (65%) Automobile Racing; Shopping Centers; Environment; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Nascar; International Speedway Corp

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (84%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (84%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (84%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



379 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. and Cheney Turn Focus to Edwards in Minnesota

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Newport Beach, Calif., for this article.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, July 17 

 BODY:
Republicans may sometimes try to cast him as an inconsequential candidate for the vice presidency, but Senator John Edwards featured prominently at a rally here Saturday by Vice President Dick Cheney.
 ''President Bush has his opponent in this campaign, and now I have mine,'' Mr. Cheney told more than 1,000 supporters. ''We are looking forward to a spirited contest.'' 
 Mr. Cheney and organizers of the rally worked hard to project an almost youthful spirit. 
 Signs held aloft by children and inscribed ''Cheney Rocks'' and ''Too Cool'' were part of an MTV-style photomontage projected on screens beside the stage inside the Minneapolis Convention Center.
 Taking to the stage, Mr. Cheney whipped off his blue blazer before starting to speak, prompting a raucous cheer from the crowd.
 In his speech, he emphasized the sure-handed experience that he said the Bush administration would provide in a difficult period. ''These are not times for leaders who shift with the political winds,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''Terrorist attacks are not caused by the use of strength; they are invited by the perception of weakness.''
 While describing the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, Senator John Kerry, as unable to make up his mind, Mr. Cheney took an indirect swipe at Mr. Edwards, a former trial lawyer. ''For the good of the economy we need to end lawsuit abuse,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''It is a lot easier for American businesses to hire more workers if they don't have to hire more lawyers.''
 The allusions to Senators Kerry and Edwards drew cheers from the audience of supporters in a Midwestern battleground state.
 Minnesota has a long history of voting for Democratic presidential nominees, but Al Gore beat Mr. Bush by just a narrow margin here in 2000. Since then, Republicans have won the governorship, a Senate seat and a number of seats in the Legislature.
 Against that backdrop, Mr. Bush came to the state last week.
 ''You can expect to see a lot of us before Nov. 2,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''It looks to me like Minnesota is Bush-Cheney country.''
 Almost everyone who took to the podium played up contrasts between Mr. Edwards and Mr. Cheney.
 In warming up the audience before the rally, Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican, used a multiple-choice pop quiz to compare the men.
 ''What is more important to you in a vice president? A: What is in his head, or B: What is on his head,'' Mr. Pawlenty asked. ''This is a case of style versus substance and steak versus sizzle.''
 Democrats had some fun at Mr. Cheney's expense on Friday night at a fund-raiser in Los Angeles. Referring to a recent episode in which Mr. Cheney used a profanity on the Senate floor, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, declared, ''I want a vice president who doesn't need anger management.'' The crowd roared with approval. 
 On Saturday, Mr. Edwards attended his fourth fund-raiser in four days, this one at the Balboa Bay Club and Resort in Newport Beach, Calif. Speaking to about 350 people, Mr. Edwards remarked that he had often spoken about ''two Americas,'' including one where the poor struggle to make ends meet. Looking around at the well-heeled crowd, he said, ''This is the other America, right here in this beautiful place.''
 All told, Mr. Edwards's aides said, the senator raised more than $2 million this week for his ticket and the Democratic National Committee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney, center, facing away from camera, reached into a crowd of well-wishers in Minneapolis yesterday. (Photo by Ann Heisenfelt/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LITIGATION (70%); LAWYERS (70%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Suits and Litigation; Legal Profession; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: Bush, George W (Pres)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (89%); AL GORE (59%); TIM PAWLENTY (59%) Thomas Crampton; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Minneapolis (Minn); Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



380 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: In the Political Blame Game, Somebody Has to Be 'It'

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE constant in the modern approach to the care and feeding of toddlers is to tell them that when they make a mistake, it's not their fault. If a tyke spills milk or leaves the door open so the cat can escape, the indulgent modern parent says, ''It's not your fault.'' That way, children can grow up without low self-esteem or guilt and can eventually deal with the concept of responsibility for their actions.
 This comes to mind because I have been reading the Web sites of the Democratic National Committee and the Kerry-Edwards campaign. Under the headings about the economy and the ''middle-class squeeze,'' I have come upon a strangely illogical and demagogic set of ''it's not your fault'' allegations and conclusions. (Of course, the sequel is, ''It's President Bush's fault.'') They are so dangerous to the well-being of the unwary reader that I thought I might try to clear the air a bit. 
 On the Democratic committee's site, a major heading is an allegation from a group not usually friendly to the Republicans -- a group of mayors -- that new jobs created in 2004 and 2005 will pay, ''on average, $8,000 less than old jobs,'' namely, jobs created in 2001 to 2003. That is a bit strange, because in many other places on these sites, it is explained that there were no net new jobs at all in 2001 to 2003. It is, of course, absolutely and totally impossible to forecast what future jobs will pay or what those jobs will be. In fact, most economic forecasting is valueless, but that's another story (though the Bush campaign site is not above the same sort of partisan prognosticating; it has data that apparently show that new jobs will pay much more than old jobs). In any case, economic Chicken Littles have been forecasting a nation of burger flippers for decades. It has never come true. But leave that aside as well. 
 The real point is personal responsibility: almost any worker has a chance to make a job a well-paying job by acquiring more skills and education. The jobs are not parceled out to the Passaic Workers' Commune by the Commissar of Jobs. People get the jobs for which they are qualified, by skill and education. If a young person gets a college degree with good grades, then gets a business school degree with very, very good grades, he'll get a job at Goldman Sachs that will pay him about $200,000 in the first year. If he goes to nursing school and learns operating-room skills, he can expect to make $80,000 a year almost immediately in many hospitals. If she learns to do electrical work in houses in Los Angeles, she can expect to make $40 an hour, plus overtime.
 That is, pay is not a given. Of course, there are constraints of time and circumstance, but people who want good-paying jobs can get them by dint of education, which is available everywhere.
 Another note on the Democratic committee's Web site says that ''a record 1.6 million families will declare bankruptcy in 2004'' and that an additional 11 million are in danger of doing so. Those figures came from that well-known nonpartisan statistician, Bill Moyers, a former press secretary to President Lyndon B. Johnson, and from several news outlets, including The Washington Post, The Orlando Sentinel and ''NBC Nightly News.'' All cited statistics from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. 
 The real point is that it's not as if President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney and Halliburton are going around fraudulently using 11 million people's charge cards to make them buy boats, high-definition TV's and motor homes they cannot afford.
 Middle-class people get into excessive debt and then face bankruptcy mostly because they spend too much. (Believe me, I see them all around me, and often get letters from them asking to borrow money.) This is their own decision. Except in the rarest of circumstances, no one is forcing it on them. There are an additional 100-plus million families that do not declare bankruptcy and are not in debt over their heads. For Kerry-Edwards and the Democratic Party to imply that overspending and undersaving are somehow not the fault of the people who are overspending is carrying the ''it's not your fault'' mantra to a new level.
 On the Kerry campaign's Web site, there is also scare material on how consumers are being squeezed by high mortgage costs as houses become more expensive. Not mentioned, of course, are the stunningly cheap mortgages of the past few years, or the astounding gains in home values that have enriched tens of millions of people. But who is forcing people to move out of plentiful and cheap rentals and to buy more house than they can afford? Not Mr. Bush or Mr. Cheney. If home buyers want to get in on a good thing -- the housing boom -- it's their decision, not anyone else's.
 Don't get me wrong. I don't claim that President Bush is perfect, although I like him a lot. On his Web site, I see claims of how his tax cuts have helped everyone in the nation, but it's hard for me to see how they help the unemployed. Or, as my father used to say in response to John F. Kennedy's pitch for his tax cuts: ''A rising tide does not lift all boats. It doesn't lift the ones under water.''
 And I don't see an enormous difference between the president's plans for the middle class and John Kerry's plans for the middle class, except that Mr. Kerry's health care proposal will cost a trillion dollars and that he expects to pay for it by taxing only people with yachts. But the rhetoric is very different in terms of personal responsibility -- a big subject to us fathers of teenage sons.
 Politics aside, we live in a free society. Middle-class people can largely control what they earn. Their children can very largely control what they earn. They can control what they spend, above a certain floor. If they are ''squeezed'' on their mortgage payments because they bought more house than they could afford, whose fault is that?
 If the middle class is being squeezed, it is very largely squeezing itself. Or, to put it another way, no matter what Daddy John and Mommy John say, ''Yes, darlings, you're old enough now -- maybe it is your fault.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Bankruptcies; Credit; Records and Achievements; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Ben Stein; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



381 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Fi

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; The Conglomerate Will See You Now; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2769 words

HEADLINE: Is What's Good for G.E. Good for Health Care?

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
IMAGINE a small town where one person not only owns the hardware store, but is also the banker and the doctor's most trusted adviser. In a sense, General Electric is trying to play such a role in the nation's $2 trillion health care industry.
 New York-Presbyterian Hospital, one of the country's largest academic medical centers, is among the hospitals making a bet on G.E.'s move toward one-stop shopping. Last fall, it announced a seven-year, $500 million agreement for that calls for General Electric to offer advice -- and discounts -- on technology, as well as ways to increase efficiency. G.E. is also offering options for financing. 
 Dozens of G.E.-trained ''black belts'' and ''green belts'' -- experts in a data-driven management method called Six Sigma -- are already wandering the hospital's halls, looking for things to improve. 
 And, if New York-Presbyterian needs light bulbs, G.E. will supply those, too.
 With $14 billion in sales, G.E.'s health care business is among its fastest-growing and most profitable units, and one that is central to the vision of its chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, who rose to the top job after running the company's medical systems unit. He is unapologetic about G.E.'s growing role in providing management skills and financing as well as hardware to hospitals. G.E. is responsible for important advances in medical technology, he said, and can bring a businesslike efficiency to an industry that is badly in need of it.
 ''We run the business to make a buck for investors; we run the business to help our customers,'' he said recently at the company's headquarters in Fairfield, Conn. ''G.E. knows a lot in this space that could be helpful in public policy.''
 Some critics ask, however, if what is good for G.E. is always good for the nation's health care system. Medical technology, the company's specialty, is a leading contributor to runaway health care costs, and some medical professionals and consumer groups say the conglomerate's growing influence among hospitals and doctors raises issues about the way scarce dollars are being spent.
 ''Very few people would want G.E. to run the Metropolitan Opera,'' said Dr. Robert Michels, a former dean of Cornell University's medical school, which is now affiliated with New York-Presbyterian. Providing quality care is much more complicated than making cathode ray tubes used in X-ray equipment, Dr. Michels said, and it is unclear whether it saves money.
 General Electric is famous for its sophisticated diagnostic imaging equipment. Using new CT scanners, doctors can take an image of the heart in five beats, to check for a narrowing of the arteries. Or they can perform a ''virtual colonoscopy'' without the invasive procedure that patients find so unpleasant. And G.E.'s sophisticated ultrasound system, which it calls 4D, lets expectant parents view extraordinarily detailed, nearly real-time images of a developing fetus.
 DIAGNOSTIC imaging, still a crown jewel in G.E.'s array of businesses, is regarded as a way to enter other fast-growing and profitable health care businesses. ''It's important to be big in big markets,'' said Mr. Immelt, who has identified health care as one of the richest opportunities in an aging America. Spending is forecast to increase by about 8 percent a year, he said, ''as far as the eye can see.''
 Policy analysts, however, say that this rate of growth is being driven in large part by the very technology that companies like G.E. are promoting. Doctors and hospitals are eager customers of the latest machines as they increasingly turn to diagnostic tests as a source of additional revenue. Doctors, in particular, are looking for new income as insurers have squeezed payments for traditional office visits.
 ''In health care, supply creates its own demand,'' said Christopher J. Queram, chief executive of the Employer Health Care Alliance Cooperative, a nonprofit purchasing group in Madison, Wis., who is concerned about the proliferation of magnetic resonance imaging machines in doctors' offices.
 Advances in technology -- a special M.R.I. machine to take pictures of a patient's knee, for example, or digital mammography equipment to screen for breast cancer -- do not always result in better health, these analysts say, and there is little hard evidence that some of this equipment, which can cost more than $1 million, is worth the cost.
 Technology ''has been a major factor that is driving costs upward,'' said John C. Rother, policy director for AARP, the lobby for older Americans. ''Maybe it is improving care in terms of outcomes,'' he added, but there is often no way to tell. ''In this country, we don't have a systematic way of evaluating technologies for cost effectiveness.''
 G.E.'s sales pitch is aimed squarely at a doctor's desire to make more money from doing more tests. The company even sells research to physicians that provides five-year projections of demand for certain tests in their markets -- and helps doctors calculate the potential fees from different types of diagnostic tests. In selling an exam table that doubles as a device to measure bone density, G.E. trumpets the system's potential revenue: $30,000 a year if a doctor sees five patients a week.
 As the hospital market has slowed for equipment like M.R.I.'s, and as care is increasingly delivered outside hospital walls, G.E. is turning its attention to doctors in their offices. This year, it bought a company that specializes in financing for doctors and dentists.
 Other equipment makers, like Siemens, the German conglomerate that is G.E.'s closest competitor, also offer financing. But G.E. is particularly successful at using its full array of businesses to attract customers, said John J. Donahue, the chief executive of National Imaging Associates, a consulting group based in Hackensack, N.J. ''G.E., by far, has the largest share and distinguishes itself by masterfully leveraging the entire G.E. family,'' he said.
 Critics say the results can be too much equipment and too many tests. ''M.R.I.'s in every doctor's office -- we don't need that many,'' said Dr. Thomas J. Handler, a radiologist who is a research director for the Gartner Group, the consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn. ''It makes my hair curl.''
 The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which advises Congress on the Medicare program, has also raised concerns about the spread of medical technology. It questioned whether some doctors were using the equipment appropriately. 
 ''The real problem is the demand side,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a professor at Princeton who specializes in the economics of health care. As companies produce more sophisticated and expensive machines, he said, employers pay ''indiscriminately for every product that comes down the pike.''
 G.E. knows a lot about rising health care costs because it is one of the nation's largest employers. It spends almost $2 billion a year to cover 400,000 employees and their families and has contributed to efforts to use technology that is intended to rein in costs. Dr. Robert Galvin, the director of global health care at G.E., leads the Leapfrog Group, an advocacy group representing more than 150 public and private organizations that provide health care benefits; it has been pushing hospitals to install computerized systems to cut down on mistakes in ordering drugs and tests.
 Still, the many roles of General Electric raise concerns about possible conflicts, especially because it is so influential in shaping policy. ''G.E. is a huge company: on one hand, a supplier; on the other hand, by being such a large employer, a purchaser,'' said Dr. Alan M. Garber, a Stanford economist and professor of medicine. ''It is important to be aware that a large company may play multiple roles and conflict may arise,'' although he added that he was not aware of actual conflicts.
 Illustrating the sometimes complicated currents buffeting a giant like G.E., many hospitals, including G.E.'s potential customers, have resisted some of the initiatives pushed by Leapfrog. When Leapfrog made its debut in 2000, ''I took a lot of heat from hospital C.E.O.'s,'' Mr. Immelt said. But he added that no one profits from perpetuating the status quo.
 G.E. has also taken heat for the way many doctors use some of its products. A few years ago, for example, it and others successfully lobbied Congress to authorize higher Medicare payments for digital mammography for routine breast cancer screening. Digital mammography, which costs Medicare much more than older technologies that use X-ray film, is widely approved for women who have already had suspicious breast tumors detected, but experts say there is no evidence to justify the extra expenses of digital for routine screening. The National Academy of Sciences has repeatedly found ''no convincing evidence'' that digital mammography is better than X-ray film in screening for breast cancer, said Dr. Roger Herdman, director of the academy's National Cancer Policy Board.
 Similarly, G.E.'s prenatal ultrasound technology is praised as a genuine advance with real value in some cases, but as not being worth the added cost in many others. Dr. Daniel V. Landers, the clinical director of the Center of Excellence in Women's Health at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, said the technology gave doctors a much more detailed view of a fetus so they could look at a known or suspected defect. But he added that the advanced ultrasound ''is not something that's necessary for routine screening.'' 
 Patients may demand the more detailed images for ''entertainment value,'' he said, and doctors may offer the more advanced tests. ''If you don't get it at a doctor's office, they'll get it at the mall,'' he said, referring to the growing number of storefront centers that offer ultrasound snapshots of fetuses to expectant parents.
 MR. IMMELT defends digital mammography as a powerful tool that pays for the machine's cost if doctors see dozens of patients a day. Ultimately, doctors must decide how best to use the technology, he said, acknowledging that it is considered more appropriate for detailed diagnoses than for mass screenings. But he said that doctors were responsible for using it efficiently, and that G.E. would thrive only by providing technology that helps hospitals, doctors and patients. 
 ''I never want to see us positioned as a company that benefits from the inefficiencies of the health care system,'' he said.
 G.E. had revenue of $134 billion last year and assets worth $647 billion in businesses from financial services to power plants to television. Its size and reach are crucial to its strategy, and it tries to use its variety of expertise to increase its business with doctors and hospitals.
 ''They are promoting the notion of soup to nuts, light bulbs to monitors to radiology systems,'' said Dr. Handler of Gartner. ''Their footprint is in so many aspects of a hospital. They are such a large company, such a big presence, that if they succeed, it may change the whole health care vendor market.''
 General Electric is also capitalizing on its reputation as one of the nation's best-managed companies. ''It is the acknowledged world leader in making jet engines, which have higher and higher quality at lower costs,'' said Lawton R. Burns, director of the Wharton Center for Health Management and Economics at the University of Pennsylvania. ''That has a lot of appeal for hospitals. Hospitals have uncertain quality at higher and higher costs.''
 At New York-Presbyterian, hospital officials say they are eager to take advantage of what G.E. has to offer; the arrangement with the company runs for seven years. The hospital has listed 120 areas where it thinks it can do things better with G.E.'s expertise, like discharging patients earlier in the day or reducing the time a stroke patient stays in the hospital. Doctors recommend short stays to cut down on the risk of catching illnesses from other patients. ''It's not safe for a patient to stay around a hospital for another day or two,'' said Dr. Michael Berman, the executive vice president at the hospital. ''G.E. can help.''
 The hospital is already looking to G.E. for more of its needs. ''We've looked at financing with G.E.; we're looking at light bulbs,'' Dr. Berman said. He said he was impressed when, during last year's blackout, Joseph M. Hogan, a senior executive at G.E., offered to supply generators. New York-Presbyterian also gets a preview of technology that G.E. is developing, allowing the hospital to make better purchasing decisions, Dr. Berman said.
 Often, those decisions benefit G.E. as much as the hospitals. G.E. provided nearly all of the technology, including some that was still being tested, when the Indiana Heart Hospital opened its doors last year in Indianapolis, and it helped the hospital borrow the money to pay for some of that technology, said the hospital's chief executive, David Veillette. ''They were able to get us very good rates,'' he said.
 Last October, G.E. arranged about $70 million in financing, including tax-free loans, for Kaleida Health, a hospital system in Buffalo that was short on cash. The financing let the system overhaul one of its suburban hospitals and to buy a computerized system -- made by G.E. -- to store X-rays and other types of images.
 The company's complicated motivations came up last May, at a meeting with about 150 health care executives invited to discuss the financial condition of their industry. ''It's our intent not to do any overt selling,'' Mr. Hogan, who represents the medical equipment side of the business, said in his opening remarks. When one speaker mentioned the proliferation of M.R.I. machines, Mr. Hogan joked that he took exception to that part of the presentation. 
 THE company has identified another need among hospitals: sophisticated computer systems that can keep track of a patient's medical records and give doctors ready access to valuable information about how to treat certain diseases. Most of the nation's 5,000 hospitals do not have these so-called integrated clinical information technology systems for patient care, though many experts say such systems could save thousands of lives.
 In this market, however, G.E. trails numerous competitors, including Siemens, McKesson HBOC and the Cerner Corporation, analysts have said, estimating that the field could generate tens of billions of dollars in sales. Rather than match the large hospitalwide systems offered by its competitors, G.E. focuses on building its business by computerizing specific departments, like radiology or cardiology. 
 In other areas, G.E. is being more aggressive. Mr. Immelt, for example, agreed to buy a British biosciences company called Amersham last October for about $10 billion, giving G.E. expertise in biology to bolster its traditional prowess in physics and engineering. G.E. hopes to use Amersham's knowledge to help it develop technology that lets doctors diagnose diseases on the molecular level.
 Doctors already use positron emission tomography, or PET scans, to distinguish cancer cells from normal cells; G.E. hopes to be a major player as more diagnosis and treatment is done at the molecular level.
 The Amersham acquisition gives G.E. greater entree into the field of personalized medicine, where drugs are tailored to the genetic makeup of individuals. ''Jeff Immelt had a vision I could certainly relate to -- to see how diagnostic medicine would change the face of health care,'' said Sir William Castell, the former chief executive of Amersham who is now a vice chairman of G.E. and the chief executive of GE Healthcare.
 Though he is enthusiastic about such businesses, Mr. Immelt is careful to make clear that he has no interest in expanding G.E.'s reach into actually treating disease. ''When you run G.E., you can do almost anything,'' he said, adding that he recognizes that there are already powerful leaders in that industry, like Pfizer and Merck. ''I just never thought there was enough fertile turf there to make us anything other than a me-too,'' he said. G.E. would do better to stick with diagnostics, he said.
 He also says G.E. can marshal its technology and expertise to raise the quality of health care. ''There's a lot of waste, do-overs,'' he said. ''Things can improve.''
 But, critics add, the unfettered use of technology can also be problematic. ''Medical technology is creating a greater set of quality management challenges every day than the day before,'' said Dr. Arnold Milstein, a senior health care expert at Mercer Human Resource Consulting. ''It is both a blessing and a curse.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the expansion of General Electric's health care business gave an outdated name for a competitor in the area of hospital computer systems. It is the McKesson Corporation, which changed its name from McKesson HBOC in 2001.


GRAPHIC: Photos: G.E. equipment allows nurses to remotely monitor a premature infant at New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief, sees an opportunity in health care. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Steady Gains''General Electric's health care division has been consistently profitable.Graph tracks GE Healthcare's operating profits from 1999-2003.Profit as a percentage of revenue1999: 18%2000: 18%2001: 18%2002: 17%2003: 17%(Source by company report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SIX SIGMA (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); QUALITY CONTROL (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%) Medicine and Health; Machinery and Equipment; Finances; Doctors; Hospitals; Consumer Protection; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (77%) Jeffrey R Immelt; Reed Abelson; Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



382 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Watching The Face Of the Fed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
ONE question that analysts will want answered when Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, testifies before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday is whether he is worried about signs of slower economic growth.
 Retail sales fell 1.1 percent in June, more than the 0.8 percent decline anticipated by Wall Street forecasters. Industrial production slid 0.3 percent last month; the forecast was for an increase of 0.1 percent. 
 The regional manufacturing reports released last week by the Federal Reserve banks in Philadelphia and New York were upbeat, but some analysts are curbing their growth expectations.
 The net impact of the retail sales report was negative, Morgan Stanley said in a report to clients. The firm's economists cut their forecast for the growth of consumer spending in the second quarter to 2 percent from 2.3 percent, and for overall economic growth to 3.8 percent from 4 percent.
 J.P. Morgan economists reported to clients that ''when all is said and done, June was obviously a poor month for the U.S. economy,'' but that it was still unclear '' how persistent this weakness will prove to be.''
 ''We don't know much about July,'' the report added, ''although early-month store sales have been somewhat disappointing, and we're hearing more grumbling from tech companies about a fall-off in business spending.''
 Analysts at High Frequency Economics are more optimistic. Citing the strong manufacturing reports from the two regional Fed banks, they told clients that ''one soft month does not reverse a trend, and there are now very strong grounds for expecting production to rebound through the summer months.''

MORTGAGE RATES DOWN -- Signs of slowing growth have been good for home buyers. Rates on 30-year mortgages jumped to 6.34 percent in mid-May, the highest since last September, undoing the dreams of many prospective buyers. But since then, the national average rate has fallen back to 6 percent, according to Freddie Mac.
 That decrease was in line with the drop in the yield on the Treasury 10-year note, a benchmark for mortgage lending. That yield was down to 4.35 percent on Friday from 4.85 percent on May 13. 

INFLATION WATCH -- On Friday, the Producer Price Index for finished goods showed a decline of 0.3 percent for June, after a climb of 0.8 percent for May. The Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent in June, and 0.6 percent in May.
 But the three-month annualized rate of growth in the consumer index slipped to 4.8 percent, from 5.5 percent in May. And for the last 12 months, the core consumer index, which excludes food and energy, has risen 1.9 percent, up from a 12-month change of 1.1 percent in January.
 Still, investors pushed Treasury rates lower on Friday, apparently believing that the new inflation numbers would allowthe Fed's policy makers to raise interest rates at a measured pace in the coming months.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks 30-year mortgage rates for 2003 and 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (68%) United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



383 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Surrender in the Forests

 BODY:
The Bush administration has taken apart so many environmental regulations that one more rollback should not surprise us. Even so, it boggles the mind that the White House should choose an election year to dismantle one of the most important and popular land preservation initiatives of the last 30 years -- a Clinton administration rule that placed 58.5 million acres of the national forests off limits to new road building and development.
 There are no compelling reasons to repudiate that rule and no obvious beneficiaries besides a few disgruntled Western governors and the timber, oil and gas interests that have long regarded the national forests as profit centers. It's not even a case of election-year pandering to Western voters; indeed, early returns suggest that most Westerners below the rank of governor do not like the Bush proposal at all. Especially aggrieved is the so-called hook and bullet crowd -- anglers and hunters who, though overwhelmingly Republican, have become increasingly disenchanted with the administration's timid and in some cases careless policies on wetlands, mercury pollution and oil and gas exploration on sensitive public lands. 
 One explanation is that the timber industry's allies in the Agriculture Department, where the proposal was hatched, sensed they were running short of time to complete their demolition job on the forest protections they inherited from the previous administration. Over the last three years, the department has weakened carefully devised agreements aimed at preserving old growth trees in the Tongass National Forest, in the Pacific Northwest and in the Sierra Nevada. It has persuaded Congress to adopt a fire-prevention strategy aimed at least as much at helping the timber industry as it is at saving communities from devastation. And it has proposed revisions in forest management policies that would short-circuit environmental reviews, weaken safeguards for endangered species and limit public participation in land-use decisions.
 For broad impact, though, nothing quite matches the decision to scuttle the roadless rule. Nearly three years in the making, that rule essentially gave blanket protection to some of the last truly wild places in America, critical watersheds for fish and wildlife and important sources of drinking water for metropolitan areas in the West. The Bush administration offers instead a less protective and more uncertain system under which state and local officials would become the moving force in deciding whether to log or conserve forest lands. This represents a big swing in the ideological pendulum, essentially returning control of an important part of national forest policy to the very people from whom Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot, both Republicans, wrested it when they established the Forest Service a century ago.
 Killing the roadless rule is also indefensible on fiscal grounds. There are already 365,000 miles of roads in the roughly 90 million acres of national forests that are and will remain open to commercial development. Many of these roads are in poor shape, crying out for maintenance. It makes no economic sense to build more.
 The administration promises that prohibitions on roads and logging will be continued on a much smaller number of roadless acres already protected under forest plans that predated the Clinton rule -- a ''just trust us'' attitude that inspires universal suspicion among conservationists. White House officials argued further that the rule's one-size-fits-all policy ignored local needs, and that two unfavorable court decisions had left them little choice but to junk the Clinton program and propose a new one.
 This is disingenuous. It is true that district judges in Idaho and Wyoming had invalidated the rule. But the administration offered only a perfunctory defense in Idaho and not much more in Wyoming. More to the point, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the Idaho decision, and there was a good chance the 10th Circuit would overturn the Wyoming decision. Indeed, the real motive for the rollback may have been to get the new rule out before the legal landscape shifted completely in favor of the old rule -- or before somebody less attentive to the needs of the timber industry moved into the White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WETLANDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); FOREST FIRES (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); OIL EXPLORATION (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); SPORT FISHING (68%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%) Forests and Forestry; Editorials; Roads and Traffic; Governors (US); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Logging Industry; Forests and Forestry

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Western States (US)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



384 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Force Of Nonworkers

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF President Bush was correct when he asserted recently that the economy was strong and getting stronger, why are so many people not only out of work but also not looking for jobs?
 Mr. Bush noted with evident relief that the nation had added 1.5 million jobs since last August. Senator John Kerry and his supporters complain that the country still has about a million fewer jobs than when Mr. Bush took office. 
 But neither statement captures properly the shortfall of jobs that has built up over the last three years. An accurate estimate is not one million but four million, and possibly higher. 
 Consider just one figure. Since June 2000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of adults considered ''not in the labor force'' -- those who don't have jobs and are not looking for them -- has grown by about 4.4 million, to 66.6 million. 
 The political significance is obvious: if the shortage has been formed by millions of additional discouraged job seekers, Mr. Bush will have a much harder time persuading voters that the economy is heading in the right direction.
 The economic issue is important in its own right. If the United States has a huge reserve pool of workers, Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve may be correct in asserting that the economy has room to expand without big wage increases. That would reduce inflationary pressure and allow the Fed to raise interest rates slowly.
 But if workers are being displaced by more fundamental forces, like a growing mismatch between their skills and the needs of the marketplace, the pool of untapped labor could become a cauldron of frustration and resentment.
 First, the numbers. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the nation added 112,000 payroll jobs in June, for a total of 131.3 million. For those watching Mr. Bush's scorecard on jobs, that total is 1.5 million higher than it was last August, and down 1.2 million from a peak in March 2001. But the recent increases greatly overstate the job growth. 
 The United States adult population has been growing about 1.4 million a year. Even if a third of those extra people don't want jobs -- choosing, say, to be stay-at-home parents -- the potential work force would still have expanded by more than three million since the start of 2001.
 The unemployment rate would be much higher than the current 5.6 percent, except that millions of people have dropped out of the work force. In a downturn, it is normal for many people to become so pessimistic that they stop looking for work. It is also normal for them to jump back into the market when prospects improve.
 But in this recovery, optimism remains muted. The ''labor participation rate,'' the percentage of people who either have jobs or are looking for them, has barely begun to revive after dropping sharply since 2000.
 Among adults in their prime earning years, ages 25 to 54, the work force participation rate has dropped to 82.8 percent from 83.9 percent in 2000. That may seem a minuscule decline, but it is the lowest rate since 1987, and it translates into millions of people. In June 2000, the Labor Department estimated that 62.2 million people over the age of 20 were ''not in the labor force.'' By this June, the number had jumped to 66.6 million. The extra 4.4 million amounted to more than half of the 8.2 million people officially labeled unemployed.
 Economists say the trend is beginning to reverse, as people become more optimistic about job prospects.
 ''It's pretty clear that employers are starting to hire again,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization. ''Even the most cautious employers are being forced to pull the trigger.''
 Even so, job creation has not come close to the pace reached in previous recoveries, including the ''jobless recovery'' of the early 1990's.
 There is a curious countertrend to the muted picture, but it may not be encouraging: the one group that is working more than ever is people older than 60.
 Because people remain healthy far later in life, it is not surprising that more are working past the traditional retirement age. According to a recent survey by AARP, 80 percent of baby boomers said they expected to work at least some after they retired.
 But many older people are also working because they need the money -- because their pensions are too slim, their debt loads too high or their savings too meager. Whatever the reason, older people snapped up about a third of the 1.5 million jobs created since August. About 250,000 went to people 60 to 64 years old, and about the same number to people 65 and up.
 The evidence, meanwhile, suggests that the jobs being created pay less than the old jobs that were lost. Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, estimated that 44 percent of the hiring from February to June was in lower-paying jobs and that 81 percent of total job growth over the last year had been in lower-paying occupations like retail sales and transportation.
 ''A likely persistence of low-quality job creation could jeopardize sustained economic recovery,'' Mr. Roach wrote recently. ''To the extent that it legitimizes perceptions of worker angst, it could also turn into one of the biggest issues in the upcoming U.S. presidential campaign.''
 WHITE HOUSE officials say that there is no reliable data on whether people are getting good jobs or bad jobs. And though average wages in expanding areas like hospital care and retail sales are lower than in shrinking areas like manufacturing, real income has historically increased even as the industrial mix has changed.
 The deeper question is whether American workers have the skills they need for higher-paying work.
 Mr. Greenspan has repeatedly warned that the United States faces a growing mismatch between the oversupply of low-skilled workers and the unmet demand for people with specialty training. He has pleaded for big increases in spending on community colleges and vocational training schools. The Bush administration has provided some extra money, but the effort has been long on fanfare and short on cash.
 If Mr. Greenspan is right, and if nothing changes, the implications could be grave. The real level of unemployment would remain elevated. Income disparities between the low skilled and the highly skilled would widen. And that reserve of workers deemed not in the labor force would remain on the outside.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Untapped Labor''The labor force participation rate for those aged 25 to 54, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks the labor force participation rate for those aged 25 to 54 from 1987 through 2004.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Labor; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



385 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: HOURLY PAY IN U.S. NOT KEEPING PACE WITH PRICE RISES

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The amount of money workers receive in their paychecks is failing to keep up with inflation. Though wages should recover if businesses continue to hire, three years of job losses have left a large worker surplus.
 ''There's too much slack in the labor market to generate any pressure on wage growth,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research institution based in Washington. ''We are going to need a much lower unemployment rate.'' He noted that at 5.6 percent, the national unemployment rate is back to the same level that it was at the end of the recession in November 2001.
 Even though the economy has been adding hundreds of thousands of jobs almost every month this year, stagnant wages could put a dent in the prospects for economic growth, some economists say. If incomes continue to lag behind the increase in prices, it may hinder the ability of ordinary workers to spend money at a healthy clip, undermining one of the pillars of the expansion so far. 
 Declining wages are likely to play a prominent role in the current presidential campaign. Growing employment has lifted President Bush's job approval ratings on the economy of late. According to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, in mid-July, 42 percent of those polled approved of the president's handling of the economy, up from 38 percent in mid-March.
 Yet Senator John Kerry, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, is pointing to lackluster wages as a telling weakness in the administration's economic track record. ''Americans feel squeezed between prices that are rising and incomes that are not,'' Mark Mellman, a pollster for the campaign, said in a memorandum last month.
 On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that hourly earnings of production workers -- nonmanagement workers ranging from nurses and teachers to hamburger flippers and assembly-line workers -- fell 1.1 percent in June, after accounting for inflation. The June drop, the steepest decline since the depths of recession in mid-1991, came after a 0.8 percent fall in real hourly earnings in May. 
 Coming on top of a 12-minute drop in the average workweek, the decline in the hourly rate last month cut deeply into workers' pay. In June, production workers took home $525.84 a week, on average. After accounting for inflation, this is about $8 less than they were pocketing last January, and is the lowest level of weekly pay since October 2001. 
 On its own, the decline in workers' wages is unlikely to derail the recovery. Though they account for some 80 percent of the work force, they contribute much less to spending. Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm, noted that households in the bottom half of income distribution account for only one-third of consumer spending. 
 Nonetheless, coming after the bonanza of the second half of the 1990's, the first period of sustained real wage growth since the 1970's, the current slide in earnings is a big blow for the lower middle class. Moreover, the absence of lower income households could also weigh on overall economic growth -- putting a lid on the mass market and skewing consumption toward high-end products.
 ''There's a bit of a dichotomy,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers. ''Joe Six-Pack is under a lot of pressure. He got a lousy raise; he's paying more for gasoline and milk. He's not doing that great. But proprietors' income is up. Profits are up. Home values are up. Middle-income and upper-income people are looking pretty good.''
 Tales of tight budgets at the bottom are springing up across the country. ''I haven't had a salary increase in two years, but the cost of living is going up,'' said Eric Lambert, 42, a father of three who earns $13 an hour as a security guard at 660 Madison Ave. in Manhattan. 
 Silvia Vides, 43, who earns $11 an hour in a union job as a housekeeper at the Universal City Sheraton hotel in Los Angeles, said, ''Sometimes I don't know how I pay the bills and food and rent.'' She has cut back on all nonessential expenditures and she is four months behind on payments on $4,000 in credit-card debt.
 Their woes are a product of supply and demand for labor. From 1996 through 2000 when employers were hiring hand over fist, real hourly wages of ordinary workers rose by 7.5 percent. Those for leisure and hospitality workers rose 9.6 percent, and retail workers' climbed 8.9 percent. The raises continued even as the economy slipped into recession in 2001 and businesses began to shed workers. 
 From 2001 to 2003, 2.4 million jobs were eliminated, as businesses sharply reduced their work forces, refusing to hire back even as demand started picking up. Over a million of these jobs have been regained this year. 
 Yet with the lowest number of people employed as a share of the population since 1994, there is still a plentiful supply of unused laborers looking for jobs. 
 As the rise in energy prices in the earlier months of this year led to rising inflation, pushing prices in June up 3.2 percent from the same month of last year, the lackluster job market has left workers in a weak position to demand more money.
 ''Since last November, we've had a pickup in hiring and a pickup in hours worked in virtually all of our businesses,'' said David Pittaway, a senior managing director at Castle Harlan, an equity investment company that owns everything from Burger King franchises to a shipping company. 
 But there is clearly still a lot of slack. When Castle Harlan advertised in the newspapers to fill 70 to 80 positions at a Morton's restaurant it opened in early July in White Plains, 600 to 700 people showed up. 
 Ms. Vides in California ticks off the items of a rising cost of living. She pays $850 a month for a one-bedroom apartment in Panorama City, $25 more a month than last year. The cost of a bus pass rose $10, to $45 a month. The electricity bill is much higher and food costs more. ''I've got to do miracles with my salary,'' she said. 
 So Ms. Vides said she was outraged that the hotels negotiating a new contract with her union were offering annual raises of 40 cents to 45 cents an hour each year for the next five years. The raise in 2004 would be about 4 percent, just enough to keep up with the 4 percent rise in prices in Los Angeles over the last year. ''This is miserly,'' said Ms. Vides, who said the union wants $1.25 this year and $1.50 next. 
 Colleen Kareti, president of the Los Angeles hotel employers' council, which represents the hotels, argued that negotiations had not yet gotten down to bargaining over wages. But she pointed out that times are hard for the hotel business, too. ''It's been pretty bad for the last three years. We're nowhere near the levels of business where we were in 1998 through 2000,'' Ms. Kareti said.
 Some economists warn that if wages remain depressed for a long time they may end up weighing on the economy. ''The recovery will likely continue on despite the travails of lower-income households, but it cannot flourish,'' Mr. Zandi said. 
 So far, spending has been fueled mostly by debt, as consumers took advantage of bedrock-low interest rates to whip out their credit cards and refinance their mortgages. But as interest rates rise to keep inflation in check, continued growth in consumer spending will depend more on jobs and wages.
 Spending is still holding up, led by strong corporate profits as well as higher salaries and bonuses at the upper end of the income distribution. But the lagging earnings at the bottom end are making for a somewhat lopsided expansion. 
 The upper echelons of consumer spending, at places like Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom department stores, are reporting gangbuster business. ''I'm surprised by how well we've sold high-priced fashion at this stage,'' said Pete Nordstrom, president of Nordstrom's full-line stores. 
 But at the other end, sales at stores open at least a year at big-box discounters like Target and Wal-Mart have disappointed, while sales of used cars are declining year over year, government figures show. ''We're not seeing the traffic, not even the same volumes of sales calls,'' said Richard Cooper, a sales manager at Jones Ford in Charleston, S.C. 
 Wages at the bottom should eventually recover, as businesses continue hiring to meet growing demand. The question is how fast. ''As unemployment slides down, more of the benefits of growth should flow to the working class,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''But not until we reach truly full employment are they likely to see their earnings rise at a level closer to that of productivity.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Silvia Vides works at a Sheraton in the Los Angeles area and says she doesn't know how she makes ends meet on her $11-an-hour salary. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)(pg. 21)Graph: ''Fewer Hours, Lower Pay''The average number of hours worked per week is falling and so are average weekly earnings.HOURS WORKEDGraph tracks the average weekly hours of production workers since 2000.WEEKLY EARNINGSGraph tracks the average weekly earnings, in 2004 dollars, since 2000.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Economy.com)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); STATISTICS (70%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Unemployment; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Income; United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion; Consumer Behavior; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JARED BERNSTEIN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



386 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Wisdom of the Losers

BYLINE: By Ryan Lizza. 
Ryan Lizza is an associate editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:

THE ESSENTIAL AMERICA
Our Founders and
the Liberal Tradition.
By George McGovern.
176 pp. Simon & Schuster. $20.

WHY LINCOLN MATTERS
Today More Than Ever.
By Mario M. Cuomo.
Harold Holzer, historical consultant.
183 pp. Harcourt. $24.

THE FOURTH POWER
A Grand Strategy for the United States in the Twenty-First Century.
By Gary Hart.
187 pp. Oxford University Press. $22.
 JOHN KERRY gets a lot of advice these days. Every prominent Democrat hawking a new policy proposal is jockeying for his attention. Now, as Kerry and his party prepare to gather in Boston, three ghosts of Democratic presidential politics past -- George McGovern, Gary Hart and Mario M. Cuomo -- have stepped forward.
 These three icons of their party aren't just any politicians. Aside from Al Gore, they may be the three living Democrats with the best reasons to believe they should have been president. Richard Nixon's disgrace surely gives McGovern some right to think that, with hindsight, Americans understand the wiser course in 1972 would have been to elect him. In 1988, Gary Hart was the future of his party, the ideological heir to Robert Kennedy and the harbinger of Bill Clinton. He was knocked out by a sex scandal. Mario Cuomo was the giant of Democratic politics in 1992. Spooked by George H. W. Bush's post-gulf-war popularity, he declined at the last minute to join the race -- a plane was famously waiting to carry him to New Hampshire -- and forfeited his best opportunity to reach the White House.
 The principal message of these books is one befitting men who harbor the conviction that they should have been president: I told you so.
 In ''The Essential America,'' McGovern, now 82 and still among the most famous men of the left, argues that American liberalism is best served by engaging with a robust strain of conservatism. ''America has always needed the vitality and redeeming strength of the liberal spirit sharpened by the anvil of conservatism,'' he writes. Actually, this is a pretty good description of what has happened to liberalism since McGovern's crushing 1972 defeat. It has had to spend 30 years reorienting itself in response to the McGovern catastrophe and the rise of modern conservatism. Yet this history seems to have passed McGovern by. In theory, he respects the idea of subjecting liberal ideas for peer review by conservatives. In practice, he doesn't appear to have met very many conservatives. ''Just about every educated person I encounter around the world is a liberal,'' he writes. ''Just about every nurse, airline flight attendant, teacher, professor, organized worker, scientist, foreign service officer, writer, poet, artist, actor, actress, singer, musician, clergyman, environmentalist, child care worker and waiter -- nearly all these are liberals.'' 
 Maybe living in this cocoon is what's allowed McGovern to keep his ideas intact these 30 years. He wants to end world hunger, pull out of Iraq, make health care universal, finance political campaigns with federal dollars, severely cut the defense budget and cancel the Bush tax cuts. ''The Essential America,'' advertised as a full-throated defense of liberalism, is more a defense of McGovernism. It even contains a chapter reprinting the closing lines of McGovern's 1972 convention speech, ''Come Home, America.'' Remember, he told us so.
 Mario Cuomo's ''Why Lincoln Matters'' is an attempt to resurrect our greatest president as a spokesman for the Democratic agenda. The heart of the book is a chapter called ''What Would Lincoln Say?,'' which, 139 years after Lincoln's death, attempts to divine his opinion on the issues before us today. From George W. Bush's doctrine of preemption to federal spending on infrastructure to the repeal of the estate tax, the 16th president, not surprisingly, turns out to be a fierce critic of the 43rd.
 Lincoln once wrote, ''Allow the president to invade a neighboring nation, whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion . . . and you allow him to make war at pleasure.'' This suggests that he might well be uneasy with the idea of pre-emption. But do we really know what his views would have been on Afghanistan, or that he ''would have urged President Bush to continue, at least for a while longer, the diplomacy needed to create a coalition with the United Nations to offer Saddam Hussein exile in return for a peaceful turnover of power''? Or, on the domestic front, that he ''would likely be shocked if he could see the deterioration plaguing America's railways and highways''? 
 Cuomo's channeling of Lincoln reaches a ridiculous conclusion with ''Abraham Lincoln's 2004 Address to Congress,'' in which Lincoln just happens to endorse much of the Kerry platform, from the partial repeal of the Bush tax cuts to deficit reduction to increased dollars for education and a fiscal package for the states. He is planning, he announces, ''an extended international journey to Europe, the Middle East, Japan and Russia'' to repair America's frayed alliances. Lincoln's imaginary address to Congress reads suspiciously like one President Cuomo would have delivered.
 Few Americans have more right to say ''I told you so'' than Gary Hart. During the 1990's, when the foreign policy establishment was obsessed with Star Wars and other issues left over from the cold war, Hart headed a commission on national security with another former senator, Warren Rudman. Its report, issued early in 2001, warned of catastrophic terrorist attacks in which ''Americans will likely die on American soil, possibly in large numbers.'' Incredibly, the work of the Hart-Rudman commission was widely ignored by the press and the Bush administration. 
 ''The Fourth Power'' builds on the many ideas of the commission, offering sweeping recommendations for how America should orient its foreign policy in the 21st century. Hart's timely central argument -- an alternative to both the neoimperialist impulses of the Bush administration and the creeping Kissingerian realism of the Kerry campaign -- is that the traditional military, political and economic powers of American foreign policy should be constrained by and imbued with a fourth power, America's unique principles. To those who advocate a crusading foreign policy of preemption to ''rid the world of evil'' and spread democracy -- even at the point of a gun -- Hart argues that the first casualty would often be America's moral authority: ''There is a vast difference between advocating, as I do, that America live up to its own principles and advocating, as the Bush administration does, that the rest of the world live up to America's principles.'' At the same time, Hart counters Kerry's retreat to a Kissinger-style foreign policy, based largely on America's interests, with a humble but still idealistic internationalism, with the spread of liberal democracy at its core. It's a call for nation building without Abu Ghraib.
 In 1993, Hart sent President Clinton a memo arguing that the end of the cold war was the ideal occasion to reorient the military ''for new missions relating to hostage rescue, counterterrorism, low intensity conflict, guerrilla warfare and stabilization of new democracies.'' Much of this prescient document is reprinted as an appendix. We were told.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Robert Grossman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WRITERS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); LITERATURE (69%); SEX SCANDALS (68%); SCANDALS (68%); AIRLINES (64%); POETRY (61%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%); MUSIC (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); RICHARD NIXON (55%) Ryan Lizza; George Mcgovern; Mario M Cuomo; Gary Hart

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



387 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Time for Democrats To Party for the Party

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

 BODY:
UNTIL last week, the Dead -- the rock group that used to be known as the Grateful Dead -- was set to play at a party after Senator John Kerry's acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention in Boston. 
 The Dead still perform acid-era classics like ''Casey Jones'' -- with lines like ''high on cocaine.'' What can happen at a star-powered event, onstage or in the audience, has become a sensitive political subject since a fund-raiser for John Kerry at which Whoopi Goldberg criticized President Bush in sometimes lewd terms. The Bush administration seized on the event to raise questions about the values of the Democrats.
 On Thursday, Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island, who was giving the party, canceled it. His press secretary, Ernesto Anguilla, said there was not enough time to sell 2,000 to 3,000 tickets and the decision had nothing to do with the Dead's image. ''The event would have featured a number of other artists,'' Mr. Anguilla said. 
 With the convention eight days away, 11th-hour scheduling changes are giving party planners headaches. There is no way to know how many parties will fill the days and nights of the 35,000 who attend the convention -- delegates, the news media, corporate executives, lobbyists and others.
 Some of the planners will not talk. There are hosts who do not want would-be guests asking for invitations. There are hosts with security concerns beyond whether bodyguards should be offered hors d'oeuvres after checking the room for explosives. There are hosts -- particularly corporations and interest groups -- that do not want the public to hear about how much money they spent to get face time with politicians. Neither does the Boston 2004 Host Committee, which is paying for many events through contributions. Taking a leaf from government officials, it required its suppliers -- companies providing things like mushrooms and tents -- to refer calls from reporters to the committee. ''We want to manage how the news gets out,'' said Karen Grant, its communications director. 
 The new campaign finance laws limit gifts to politicians to $2,000 a person for each election. But campaign-finance experts say there are ways to sidestep the limits. Corporations can pay for lavish parties where legislators bend elbows with executives and lobbyists. Charles Lewis, the executive director of the nonpartisan Center for Public Integrity, noted that Congress temporarily exempts itself from the gift ban during the conventions. ''Conventions are the Super Bowl of influence,'' he said.
 Dozens of titans of American business have put up hundreds of thousands of dollars to oblige. Target, the discount store chain, is giving lunches for Senator Max Baucus of Montana and Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas (the home state of Target's far larger rival, Wal-Mart). 
 UBS Financial Services, News Corporation and Sovereign Bank have invited legislators and donors to Fenway Park for tours and batting practice. Agribusiness companies will honor Democratic secretaries of agriculture from the Carter and Clinton administrations. The Natural Gas Association is giving a lunch for Gov. Bill Richardson and Senator Jeff Bingaman, both of New Mexico (a natural-gas-producing state). 
 Some joint ventures prove that politics still makes strange bedfellows. The Distilled Spirits Council is joining forces with three publications -- The New Republic, The Economist and Roll Call, the Capitol Hill newspaper. They will salute the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle. 
 A salute to Senator Edward M. Kennedy at Symphony Hall also has a number of sponsors, including the Bank of America, Bristol-Myers Squibb and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The performers, too, will be eclectic: Bono and Yo-Yo Ma, among others. It is one of the most sought-after tickets in town.
 The modern presidential convention provides no suspense, so delegates need not be glued to their seats. 
 ''What do you do at conventions?'' asked Barbara Boggs, an events planner, whose husband, Tommy Boggs, is one of the most prominent lobbyists in Washington. ''Think Mardi Gras. You go to parties. You meet and greet and party.''
 Any convention these days draws stars. Sarah Jessica Parker will be at the party given by AOL, a corporate relative of HBO, which carried ''Sex and the City,'' Ms. Parker's series. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Charles E. Schumer will be guests of honor at a party at Spire, one of Boston's hottest restaurants in one of its newest hotels, Nine Zero.
 And then there is the Creative Coalition's $1,000-a-person fund-raiser at L Restaurant in Louis Boston, an upmarket clothing and furnishings store in an 1863 building, which once housed a museum. Ben Affleck, a hometown boy, will attend, along with Alec Baldwin and Mandy Patinkin. The Red Hot Chili Peppers will entertain. One of nine events sponsored by Edison Electric Institute, an association of electric companies -- more than any other group, according to one party planner -- is the Caribbean beach bash of Senator John B. Breaux of Louisana. 
 But will Lily Tomlin appear with Senator Clinton or with Teresa Heinz Kerry? Is Sheryl Crow coming, or will she still be in France with Lance Armstrong? 
 The Kerrys, of course, live in Boston, and as the prospective nominee's wife, Mrs. Heinz Kerry will be the guest of honor at several parties. The most coveted is a dinner for 350 to 400 at Mistral. The hosts include Robert B. Crowe, a lawyer and lobbyist who is vice chairman for finance of the Democratic National Committee, and John P. Manning, a Boston real estate executive. Many of the sponsors are $100,000-plus contributors to the Kerry campaign.
 ''John has all these honorary events going, so we said let's do something really special for Teresa,'' Mr. Manning said. ''We thought Teresa should have her own party.'' 
 On Beacon Hill, in Louisburg Square, across the street from the Kerrys' town house, Chris Gabrieli, a venture capitalist who ran for governor of Massachusetts in 2002 and is one of Mr. Kerry's best friends, will give two parties, each for about 200 people. One is for the New Democratic Network, a group of Clinton Democrats interested in economic growth. The second, before Mr. Kerry's acceptance speech, will be for the Massachusetts delegation.
 Emphasizing that this is Mr. Kerry's convention, the Clintons have chosen to stay not in Boston but in Cambridge, at the Charles Hotel, owned by Richard Friedman, a big contributor to the Democratic Party. Madeleine K. Albright, the former secretary of state, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and high-level foreign dignitaries also have reservations there.
 Sunday night, the Clintons will be honored at the State Room, overlooking Boston and the harbor from the 33rd floor, at a reception for about 500 people given by Elaine and Jerry Schuster and other friends. The Schusters have raised millions for the former president and for the Democratic National Committee. Dinner parties at the better restaurants are $100 to $150 a head. At No. 9 Park Street, one of the city's best, where Senator Kennedy is to be the host at a small dinner, a standup cocktail buffet goes for the same price. Restaurateurs, like Jamie Mammano of Mistral, said he was not charging full price for the dinner in honor of Mrs. Kerry. 
 Jim Apteker, the owner of State Room, said: ''The Democratic National Convention is not a huge moneymaker for us. It's the exposure. We are being asked to give discounts.''
 But Barbara Boggs, the events planner, said she had not noticed any lowered prices. ''We're a captive audience, and I'm sure the per-person food and beverage cost is considerably higher than usual.''
 Some of the city's best restaurants worried for weeks that natives fleeing Boston would drain off business. But many, including Jasper White's Summershack and blu, in the Sports Club/LA, now expect to make up some of those losses with private parties. At Rialto, in the Charles Hotel, which will open for lunch and Senator Dodd's party, the acclaimed chef Jody Adams will be elbow deep in a terrine of rabbit, pork, chicken and foie gras.
 Dusty Rhodes, the president of Conventures, a Boston events planner, with 20 events on her plate, said that despite the last-minute additions and subtractions, the only people scrambling to get ready are those who repair streets and sidewalks. ''Every single street corner has a repair crew on it.'' For Boston, a sports-mad town, she said, ''Thirty-five thousand people for five days is the equivalent of two Yankees games and two Celtics games.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about events planned for the Democratic National Convention in Boston misidentified the Massachusetts office for which Chris Gabrieli, the host of two parties, ran in 2002. It was lieutenant governor, not governor. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: BAND IN BOSTON? -- The Dead was in but is now out for a Democratic convention after party. Below, Jody Adams, the Charles Hotel chef, is in. (Photos by Tim Mosenfelder/Getty Images
right, Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
GETTING READY -- Clockwise from upper left: Dusty Rhodes, who is organizing a tall ships parade for the convention
the chef Jamie Mammano
Chris Gabrieli, host of two parties
and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, the scene of a lunch for Representative Nancy Pelosi, the house Democratic leader, and other events. Below, Louis Boston, the clothing store and restaurant, will be the setting for a $1,000-a-person fund-raiser. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (77%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (60%); COCAINE (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Parties (Social); Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (57%); JERRY LEWIS (57%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%); NANCY PELOSI (55%) Marian Burros

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



388 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Are You Listening, Senator Kerry?

BYLINE: By Will Saletan. 
Will Saletan, the chief political correspondent for Slate, is the author of ''Bearing Right: How Conservatives Won the Abortion War.''

 BODY:

REASON
Why Liberals Will Win
the Battle for America.
By Robert B. Reich.
257 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.

STAND UP FIGHT BACK
Republican Toughs, Democratic Wimps, and the Politics of Revenge.
By E. J. Dionne Jr.
243 pp. Simon & Schuster. $24.
 It's no picnic preaching liberalism these days. Marxism died long ago. The political power Democrats earned from the New Deal collapsed in 1994 with their loss of Congress. Their last big idea, President Clinton's health care proposal, crashed and burned. The peace and prosperity of the Clinton years brought them no more than a tie in the 2000 election, and their vows of retaliation for losing that election in court came up empty in 2002. They control no branch of government and are barely consulted on legislation.
 Not to worry. Inspired by President Bush's overreaching and Howard Dean's rebellion, the political commentators E. J. Dionne Jr. and Robert B. Reich have resurfaced with prophecies of liberal revival. Reich, a former secretary of labor whose recent works include ''The Resurgent Liberal (and Other Unfashionable Prophecies),'' speaks with Hegelian confidence in his new manifesto, ''Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America.'' Dionne (who endorsed a book of mine last year) is the author of ''Why Americans Hate Politics'' and ''They Only Look Dead: Why Progressives Will Dominate the Next Political Era.'' In his latest volume, ''Stand Up Fight Back,'' he assails Republican ruthlessness. Moping is out; hoping is in.
 The authors elaborate on some familiar arguments of the left: You can't beat something (a bold conservative agenda) with nothing (a timid centrist agenda), and the Democratic Party, taking a cue from the Republicans, should focus more on exciting its base than on appeasing the middle. But they also develop fresh insights -- for example, that Bush and the current Congressional leaders aren't really conservatives; they're radicals (in Reich's parlance, ''Radcons''), whose contempt for prudence and precedent, expressed in wartime tax cuts and runaway budget deficits, invites a counteralliance among liberals, moderates and ''real conservatives.''
 Liberals, too, are misunderstood. Full-throated liberalism isn't soft, the authors argue. ''Softness and toughness are not issues. They are not ideas. They are dispositions,'' Dionne writes persuasively. The ''Democratic wimps'' to whom he refers in his subtitle are self-styled centrists who struggle constantly to position themselves as tough guys. ''No one who is obsessed with 'positioning' will ever look tough,'' Dionne says. The way to look tough is to be tough, by standing up for progressive beliefs.
 But how can progressive beliefs attract moderates and conservatives? With that challenge in mind, the authors set out to rethink and repackage the Democratic agenda. Liberals, they suggest, must focus on rewarding people who, in Clinton's words, ''work hard and play by the rules.'' Conservatives pretend that unregulated commerce achieves this, but recent corporate scandals prove otherwise. Financial insiders, left unsupervised, enrich themselves through fake accounting, stock manipulation, self-dealing, tax evasion and bribery. Honest employees and shareholders get ripped off. The beauty of this critique is that it's based on personal responsibility, not equality of outcome. It doesn't entail stealing money from working people for bums and cheats. It targets the rich bums and cheats who steal money from working people.
 To administer this kind of justice, government is essential. ''Capitalism cannot work without regulation, which is simply a fancy word for rules and laws,'' Dionne observes. ''Powerful people will often take advantage of their muscle unless someone -- like it or not, that someone usually works for the government -- keeps an eye on them.'' In conflicts with such private interests as polluters and disloyal employers, government is the individual's protector, not his enemy.
 An economic message based on responsibility allows Democrats to attract culturally conservative voters on issues like opposing estate tax repeal (since repeal, as Reich observes, would help rich people get richer without risk or labor) and raising the minimum wage (which affirms that, in Dionne's words, ''Americans who work should not be poor''). It also requires concessions from the left. Dionne defends welfare reform, balanced budgets and employment through economic growth. Reich demolishes leftist illusions about trade policy. ''Technophobes, neo-Luddites and anti-globalists be warned: You're on the wrong side of history,'' he declares. 
 The responsibility ethic also suggests a muscular approach to patriotism. Conservatives believe in serving oneself; liberals believe in serving one's country. ''Now we're back at war,'' Reich writes. ''But instead of raising taxes on the wealthy to pay for it, the Radcons want to cut them. Pardon me for asking, but where, exactly, is the patriotism in this?'' 
 But responsibility challenges other liberal assumptions, and here the trouble begins. Reich, having called on conservatives to extend their ethic of ''commitment'' from the family to the workplace, refuses to reciprocate. ''The decline in marriage is no more a public issue than is the rise in premarital sex,'' he says. He dismisses moral objections to abortion as ''religious views'' whose exclusion from law is plainly ''reasonable.'' He derides William Bennett's contention that if gay marriage became legal, there would be no principled grounds to forbid polygamy. Yet the only principle Reich offers -- that people should be ''trusted to impose limits on how they want to live in society'' -- supports Bennett's argument. Indeed, it imperils prospects for reform by failing to make clear that gay marriage, unlike polygamy or adultery, is a monogamous commitment.
 The authors also strain the definition of fiscal responsibility. Reich charges hyperbolically that ''F.D.R.'s safety net is in shreds,'' and he faults Clinton's welfare reforms. Dionne dismisses prescription drugs for seniors as an example of ''bite-size programs'' (because Americans with no health care coverage are excluded). He chides Democrats for confining their ambitions in 2002 to ''a little prescription drugs here, a little Social Security there.'' Little? Bite-size? Democratic prescription drug proposals in 2002 would have cost $400 billion to $600 billion over 10 years. The prescription drug bill Bush signed this year has a price tag in that range. Social Security will cost $800 billion this year and $1.5 trillion in 2013.
 Most problematic, the authors espouse a multilateral foreign policy that subordinates action to consultation. Rejecting undue reliance ''on American power and American decisions,'' Dionne embraces what the progressive writer John Judis has called ''a Lockean view of international relations -- of a world that eventually can be governed by social contracts rather than by the threat of force.'' Reich agrees: ''I don't like the idea of a giant military machine mounting 'pre-emptive' wars without international backing.'' These comments reflect the views of most liberals. But they don't square with the iron-fisted antifascism Reich and Dionne praise in Presidents Roosevelt and Truman -- or with the toughness and responsibility that the authors advocate on other matters. No one who is obsessed with pleasing the United Nations will ever be tough.
 Tweak a word or two in Dionne's arguments for assertive domestic policy and they become arguments for assertive foreign policy. Powerful regimes will often take advantage of their muscle unless someone -- like it or not, usually the United States -- keeps an eye on them. Likewise, Reich's indictment of Radcon patriotism -- that it emphasizes symbolic unity rather than the bearing of real burdens -- invites a related critique of liberals who pine for international consensus while problems fester.
 ''If we appear to act like a bully, we can't get the cooperation we need from other nations,'' Reich warns. But there's plenty of evidence, as in the recent example of Libya, that bullying gets others to cooperate. Indeed, bullying is what the authors accuse Bush of doing to Democrats, with tremendous effect.
 Dionne, quoting from Reich's ''Resurgent Liberal,'' inadvertently makes the case against multilateralism. ''Reich maintained that contemporary liberalism was rooted in the values of altruism and conciliation,'' he writes. ''While perfectly worthy goals, Reich argued, both easily collapsed into 'an overwhelming preference for smoothing over rather than settling conflict,' which in turn contributed 'to an environment in which unaccountability flourished.' '' That's a good description of the United Nations -- and a good reason for liberals to get as tough abroad as they are at home.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A byline on Page 9 of the Book Review today, for the review of ''Reason,'' by Robert B. Reich, and ''Stand Up Fight Back,'' by E. J. Dionne Jr., misstates the reviewer's preferred name. It is William Saletan, not Will. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robert Grossman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAX LAW (71%); LITERATURE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BUDGETS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Will Saletan; Robert B Reich; E J Jr Dionne

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



389 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY INTERVIEW -- WITH HARRY C. STONECIPHER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: A Boeing Stalwart, War or Peace

BYLINE: By LAURA RICH

 BODY:
HARRY C. STONECIPHER had been retired for 18 months from a long career in aerospace when Boeing asked him to rejoin the company last December as its chief executive.
 A former chief executive at McDonnell Douglas, Mr. Stonecipher became Boeing's chief operating officer after the two companies merged in 1997. After he left the company, Boeing was rocked by scandals, beginning in July 2003, when the Air Force found that it had stolen documents from Lockheed Martin as the companies competed for a rocket launch program. 
 In November, Boeing's chief financial officer was fired after an internal inquiry found that he had met with an Air Force executive who supervised Boeing contracts and discussed hiring her -- she later accepted a job with the company. Its former chief executive, Philip M. Condit, stepped down the next month. 
 In his first seven months as chief executive, Mr. Stonecipher, who has earned a reputation for quick turnarounds, says he is determined to move the company in the right direction. The stock price has increased about 30 percent since he took over, and he has worked to mend relations with the government. Last week, Mr. Stonecipher, 68, spoke about the scandals; the military business; Boeing's archrival, Airbus; and division within the company. Here are excerpts from that conversation:

Q. Why did you accept the idea of coming back?A. I was very happily retired, actually, but I also was on the board, and I have a big investment in this company. And I love this company and I love the industry. Always have. I knew the company really well. It was an easy thing to do.

Q. In terms of the scandals, what have you done to assure investors and customers that those are definitely behind you?

A. Well, as in definitely behind us, they'll never be definitely behind us until all the lawsuits are finished. Rather than trying to convince people that it's all behind us, I have convinced them that we have a process and a will to deal with it, vigorously and summarily.

Q. Boeing is up for a $17 billion contract with the Air Force, which had all but signed the deal before the procurement scandal broke out. Now it is reassessing. If you don't win the contract, that's a big, gaping hole. What would you do to offset that?

A. That's not a ''big, gaping hole.'' It's $17 billion over 25 years, or something like that. The thing is that other people overlook we're the ones that maintain 50 percent of the current tankers. So, we're going to be involved in it [whether or not the company wins the $17 billion contract].

Q. Military spending accounted for 54 percent of your revenue last year. How do you intend to maintain that should such spending drop off?

A. Well, we won't. Absolutely, defense spending will moderate, and perhaps even go down. I mean, this is the best we've had it since the Reagan years. But at the same time, the economy's improving and, I think you would agree, as peace breaks out all over, you're probably likely to get a better improvement in the economy, and people feel better about it, and that's where our commercial business becomes very strong.

Q. Airbus is a big competitor. What are you doing to change the relationship between Airbus and the European governments, and the subsidies that Airbus is getting from them?

A. Oh, I'm just kind of raising the rhetoric issue. My position has been that the 1992 agreement [stipulating subsidies for Airbus] has outlived its usefulness. Airbus, by their own press releases, say they're earning higher margins than we are, they're delivering more planes than we are, they're winning more orders than we are. So the question is, why do they need the subsidies?

Q. There has been criticism that your company lacks a longer-range view, like research and development. How much of a focus is R.&D. for you?

A. It's always been a big focus. I find that whole argument rather interesting, but, you know one of the things people have said is, ''Harry doesn't care about commercial airplanes.'' You've heard that, but did anybody ever stop to think that, if I didn't care about commercial airplanes, why in the heck would I ever merge [McDonnell Douglas] with the Boeing Company? I'm the one that drove that merger.

Q. What other companies did McDonnell consider merging with?

A. One was Raytheon. It's long enough now that I can tell you that. We had lots of opportunities. We chose Boeing and haven't regretted it one iota.

Q. What about research and development? Is that much of a focus?

A. Well, I'm the guy who spent all the time at the N.R.O. [the Pentagon's National Reconnaissance Office, which has awarded contracts to Boeing], before the merger, in fact.

Q. I've noticed you've spoken of ''McDonnell people'' and of ''Boeing people.'' It sounds as if there's some division. Are you doing anything to bring these two cultures together?

A. There's always division when you have businesses. And it was McDonnell versus Douglas versus Mesa helicopters. At Boeing, it was always Everett versus Renton [divisions in Washington State] versus Philadelphia. So it's fairly natural for large organizations. It's better. But it still exists, so I have 11 direct reports. Everybody in the company works for one of the 11 people. If I can keep all those people working together, you find out that the people below work all together.

For an extended version of this interview go to nytimes.com/yourmoney.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I love this company and I love the industry,'' said Harry C. Stonecipher, who cut his retirement short to return to Boeing as chief executive. (Photo by M. Spencer Green/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); AIRLINES (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ETHICS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (71%); LITIGATION (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); ESPIONAGE (59%) Airlines and Airplanes; Defense Contracts; Ethics; Ethics; Industrial Espionage; Military Aircraft; Renting and Leasing; Suits and Litigation; Airlines and Airplanes; United States Armament and Defense; Air Forces

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%) Boeing Co; Lockheed Martin Corp; Airbus Industrie

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); LMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: Darleen A Druyun; Harry C Stonecipher; Laura Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004



390 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: On Paper, Buffalo Sees Improvement; on the Streets, Many Disagree

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, July 17 

 BODY:
Pointing to the oasis she has built in the midst of a neighborhood wracked by poverty and high crime, Rosa Gibson explained what it takes to grow hope in an area that has little.
 ''People have to get involved and stay involved,'' said Miss Gibson, a longtime activist on Buffalo's East Side. She spoke while looking at the flower gardens and fruit orchards planted by volunteers from the Community Action Information Center, which she founded 21 years ago on a lot that once was the site of a junkyard. Century-old houses surround the community garden called Rosa's Garden of Love, their conditions ranging from spartan to collapsing.
 Miss Gibson's optimism when it comes to advocacy is matched only by her cynicism that surfaces when the topic changes to city government. Buffalo's growing deficit led to state imposition of a financial control board more than a year ago. 
 ''I really wanted a control board, because we didn't have the leadership we should have,'' said Miss Gibson, whose organization also operates a food pantry, delivers meals and Christmas baskets to the elderly and impaired, and coordinates citizen patrols of some of the city's most turbulent neighborhoods. ''So far, I can't see that there has been a great change. I guess it takes time.''
 There has been some positive news since the board's creation in June 2003 -- at least when it comes to the bottom line. Standard & Poor's removed the negative rating from Buffalo's debt in May, upgrading its overall rating to stable.
 Meanwhile, Mayor Anthony M. Masiello's budget for the 2005 fiscal year, which began July 1, includes projected savings of $6 million from switching the health insurance plans for city employees to a single carrier, and $3.5 million from turning over the operation of the city's parks and recreation facilities to Erie County.
 Some cuts in funding, particularly in police and fire protection and the city's building inspection department, have left Miss Gibson and others wondering whether those who can least afford losing services are getting hurt the most.
 ''I'm concerned about my life and my house burning down,'' she said. ''I need protection, so I need the cops and firemen.''
 In the mayor's view, citizens are safer. Mr. Masiello said the changes have put more police cars on the street and have given the department greater flexibility, as well as saving the city money.
 ''The changes in the Police Department have helped us patrol the neighborhood better, because now we can respond more quickly and more visibly,'' he said.
 Job cuts in those positions and others account for most of the deficit-fighting strategy employed by the city and its control board. Mr. Masiello's new budget included 65 layoffs, on top of 103 vacancies eliminated during the year and 83 positions in the parks department that were transferred to the county as part of the takeover. In all, nearly 400 jobs -- more than 13 percent of Buffalo's civic work force in 2002 -- have been eliminated.
 In the last round of contract negotiations, Mr. Masiello's administration persuaded city police officers to agree to single-officer patrol cars and job cuts through attrition in exchange for salary increases and a no-layoff clause. The department has shrunk by more than 15 percent since 2001, with 805 officers remaining on the force as of July 1.
 ''Our population has been almost cut in half over the last 50 years, so we are right-sizing our police force to serve the needs of the community,'' said Mr. Masiello's spokesman, Matthew Brown.
 As the number of officers has fallen, though, the city's murder rate has headed in the opposite direction. There have been 31 murders in the city in 2004, although Buffalo's summer has been unseasonably cool so far. The police said that if the spike in violence that usually comes with increased temperatures occurs this year, as they clearly expect, the final figure could easily top last year's 60 homicides.In the early hours of July 11, a graduation party on the East Side ended in gunfire, with 15-year-old Domonique L. Jones killed by a single bullet when a man fired into a crowd. Mr. Jones's death two weeks after his graduation from eighth grade capped a week in which 13 people were shot in Buffalo, most on East Side streets, the police said.
 Common Council member Antoine M. Thompson said reductions to the Police Department have been a factor in the increased violence.
 ''They don't have adequate staff,'' said Mr. Thompson, whose district includes much of the East Side and 27 percent of Buffalo's African-American population. ''Right now, less than 50 percent of the homicides in Buffalo are solved. How can you market your community to anybody and have less than half of your homicides solved? Violence depreciates property values, it accelerates flight and it also devastates and slashes the quality of life for all people.''
 The president of the Police Benevolent Association, Robert P. Meegan, said the cuts and the switch to single-officer patrols have made the city more dangerous for residents and the police.
 ''Officers, when answering calls, have to wait for appropriate backup,'' Mr. Meegan said. ''The longer a situation simmers, the more dangerous or deadly the situation can get.''
 Mr. Thompson said that staff reductions in the city's inspections department have made life in Buffalo's toughest neighborhoods even more difficult. Mr. Masiello's proposal to replace inspectors by cross-training firefighters met with resistance from unions and the control board, but the department's staff has still been cut by nearly 15 percent.
 ''We have well over 800 properties in deplorable condition, and many are located in the heart of the East Side, that need to come down,'' said Mr. Thompson, who is in the final months of his first term on the Common Council. ''They're havens for drug dealing, prostitution and warehousing guns. You compound that with inequities in public education and a high concentration of unemployment, it's a recipe for disaster.''
 Miss Gibson sees the impact of such neglected properties every day.
 ''I can show you run-down houses and the drug houses that the city said it was going to confiscate and tear down,'' said Miss Gibson, who has also coordinated citizen patrols and led neighborhood beautification efforts. ''They haven't done that with one yet around here. They said they were going to do so much about absentee landlords, and I don't know what they've done about any of them.''
 Mr. Masiello, who won a third four-year term in 2001, acknowledged that the city's fiscal crisis slowed the pace of condemnations and demolition his administration had maintained during his first few years in office.
 ''We did a lot of demolition the first five or six years,'' Mr. Masiello said. ''The city's housing stock is old and it's made of wood. I think we've convinced the control board that we need to allocate money for demolition and housing rehab, not only in this year's budget, but for several years.''
 The four-year plan approved by the control board would balance Buffalo's budget for the 2008 fiscal year. The spending plan that took effect July 1 included $20 million in borrowing to close the gap between revenues and expenses.
 Mr. Masiello pointed to that balanced budget as evidence that the control board is producing the intended results.
 ''I believe the control board has been a big asset to us,'' the mayor said. ''Without them, getting the parks merger and the one health-care provider system would have been difficult to do.''
 Miss Gibson, though, wonders whether all the changes will have much impact on the things that are important to her -- Buffalo's neighborhoods and the quality of life of its residents.
 ''It's all a political game,'' she said. ''You scratch my back on this deal and when the time comes, I'll scratch yours. Come back next year, and see where we're at.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosa Gibson, a Buffalo community activist, says fire and police services are lacking. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Rosa Gibson, in a community garden, looks after plantings made to resemble the American flag. She sees few signs that Buffalo is gaining in its struggle against street violence and other urban woes. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); INSPECTIONS (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (69%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (66%); LAYOFFS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Police; Fires and Firefighters; Government Bonds; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: Financial Control Board (NYS)

PERSON: David Staba; Anthony M (Mayor) Masiello; Rosa Gibson

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Buffalo (NY); Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



391 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: An Emerging Catastrophe

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Drive through some of the black neighborhoods in cities and towns across America and you will see the evidence of an emerging catastrophe -- levels of male joblessness that mock the very idea of stable, viable communities.
 This slow death of the hopes, pride and well-being of huge numbers of African-Americans is going unnoticed by most other Americans and by political leaders of both parties.
 A new study of black male employment trends has come up with the following extremely depressing finding: ''By 2002, one of every four black men in the U.S. was idle all year long. This idleness rate was twice as high as that of white and Hispanic males.'' 
 It's possible the rate of idleness is even higher, said the lead author of the study, Andrew Sum, who is director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston.
 ''That was a conservative count,'' he said. The study did not consider homeless men or those in jail or prison. It is believed that up to 10 percent of the black male population under age 40 is incarcerated.
 While some of the men not working undoubtedly were ill or disabled, the 25 percent figure is still staggeringly high. And for some segments of the black male population, the situation is even worse.
 Among black male dropouts, for example, 44 percent were idle year-round, as were nearly 42 of every 100 black men aged 55 to 64.
 ''I was surprised by the magnitude of the population that was idle all year-round,'' said Professor Sum. ''Typically, some groups will find work part of the year, but not the other part, and you end up with a high joblessness rate. But here we've got a growing number of men just not working at all.''
 Black men, already in an employment crisis, were hit particularly hard by the last recession and have not done well in the fitful recovery that followed. Jobless rates for some subgroups, black teenagers for example, have been all but off the charts.
 Professor Sum and his colleagues got closer than official statistics usually get to the dismal employment reality of black men by using the so-called employment-population ratio, which represents the percentage of a given population that is employed at a given time. The government's official unemployment statistics are often misleading, particularly because people who have stopped looking for work are not counted.
 Things fall apart when 25 percent of the male population is jobless. (This does not even begin to address the very serious problems of underemployment, such as part-time or temporary jobs, and extremely low-wage work.) Men in a permanent state of joblessness are in no position to take on the roles of husband and father. Marriage? Forget about it. Child support? Ditto.
 For the most part, jobless men are not viewed as marriageable material by women. And they are hardly role models for young people.
 Those who remain jobless for a substantial period of time run the risk of becoming permanently unemployable.
 This is a tragic situation for the men and their families and a serious problem for society at large. Such a huge all-but-permanently-unemployed population is an obstacle to efforts to achieve full employment and its accompanying benefits. These men are not contributing to tax revenues and they are consuming public and social services. And some, inevitably, are engaged in criminal and other anti-social behavior.
 Figuring out ways to get this population gainfully employed would turn a net societal deficit into a real benefit.
 Finally, it's just wrong to allow so many Americans to remain in a state of social and economic degradation without attempting to alter the conditions responsible for their suffering.
 Education is one of the keys here. As Professor Sum found, 44 percent of black men with no high school diploma were idle year-round versus 26 percent of those with a diploma, and 13 percent of those with a bachelor's (or higher) degree.
 The distance from the idleness of the street corner to the warmth of a thriving family is not really that far, especially when a helping hand is offered. But we'll never offer the helping hand if we fail to recognize that there's a problem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (79%); RACE & RACISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); STATISTICS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MARRIAGE (60%) Labor; Unemployment; Blacks; Children and Youth; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



392 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Shift at Historical Society Raises Concerns

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN and GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
For the New-York Historical Society, the promise of a long-awaited chapter of financial stability and higher visibility now seems just around the corner -- or in the basement, to be precise. 
 A year ago Richard Gilder and Lewis E. Lehrman, two wealthy businessmen, joined the society's board, lent the institution their renowned collection of historical documents and created a $1 million vault in the basement of the society's building on Central Park West to house the archive at their own expense. 
 Already the benefits are evident. The Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History has moved its operations to the society, including a reading room for scholars and students. Board members are giving more money. And the society can draw on the collection and its staff for exhibitions, as it has for a forthcoming Alexander Hamilton show, the first to be presented by the society's new president, Louise Mirrer, whom Mr. Gilder helped recruit. 
 But the collection is not yet the society's to keep. For the moment it is only on deposit. The archive had other suitors, including the Morgan Library, where the documents resided for more than a decade and whose director said he would welcome their return. Mr. Gilder said that the New York Public Library, too, lobbied hard to get the collection. The library declined comment. 
 At the same time Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman, both conservative Republicans, are leading the society's shift toward a broader view of its mandate, emphasizing American rather than local history. Mr. Gilder, a money manager, acknowledged that the men chose the society in part because they feared the collection would be overshadowed at a large institution like the public library. 
 All this suggests to some historians and society staff members that Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman are dangling the prize of their collection on the condition that the society go along with their interests, and that they have chosen the society because its history of financial weakness has left it malleable.
 ''I am troubled by the direction apparently being charted by the historical society,'' said Mike Wallace, a professor of history at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and winner of the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1999, adding that he had ''high regard'' for Dr. Mirrer and respect for Mr. Gilder's ''passion for history.''
 Still, Mr. Wallace added, ''the many hundreds of people who rallied successfully to keep the N.-Y.H.S. alive over the past decade did not do so to have it wind up as a subsidiary of the Gilder Lehrman Institute, which would then jettison its city emphasis.'' 
 In an interview Mr. Gilder acknowledged that he and Mr. Lehrman were evaluating the society on the basis, among other things, of whether it fulfilled their desire to make its focus more national. 
 ''Having invested $1 million in the vault, it's the society's to lose,'' Mr. Gilder said of the collection, which includes signed copies of the Emancipation Proclamation and the 13th Amendment, which bans slavery. ''We really want to end up giving it to them. It makes a lot of sense. It could have a special identity.''

Influence of Big Donors
 Museums have long had complicated relations with big donors who take a strong interest in the stories told in their halls. But across the country, questions about the extent of wealthy trustees' influence on content have grown as charitable contributions have declined.
 The Smithsonian Institution in Washington, for example, came under criticism from historians in May 2001 when it accepted a $38 million gift from a businesswoman, Catherine B. Reynolds, who insisted that she have a say in picking those who would select the 100 prominent Americans to be honored by the exhibition she was financing. Ms. Reynolds ultimately withdrew most of the gift.
 At the historical society the rising influence of Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman, and the presence of their collection in the basement, has raised questions among insiders and outsiders about whether the institute might ultimately eclipse the society. 
 ''There is the potential for conflict of interest,'' said Terry L. Davis, the president and chief executive of the American Association for State and Local History, based in Nashville. ''The important thing is that the board really knows what it's doing and doesn't let the money coming in rule the mission of this institution.''
 Board members and Dr. Mirrer, a medievalist who was formerly executive vice chancellor for academic affairs at the City University of New York, say they are conscious of that danger but discount it. 
 ''I would hope that over time the collection, if not owned by this institution, would be seen as an integral part of our holding,'' Dr. Mirrer said. ''We have a treasure here. Everyone is going to work closely together. It's not going to be an adversarial relationship.''
 The documentary filmmaker Ric Burns was recently recruited to the society's board by Mr. Gilder. ''Any institution in the world would be grateful,'' Mr. Burns said, for the involvement of Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman.
 Richard W. Edelman, the society's treasurer, credited Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman with increasing the level of giving among fellow board members. In 2000 trustees were expected to give or raise $2,000 a year, he said. Now that figure is up to $25,000.
 ''The board has been completely transformed,'' added Mr. Edelman, president and chief executive of the Edelman public relations company. ''These guys have serious wealth and a serious interest in history. At least it gives us the aspiration to be one of the bigger institutions in the city.''
 Certainly Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman have pushed the society to think big. The $5 million Hamilton exhibition, scheduled to open on Sept. 10, is the largest in the society's history and is intended to be the first in a series of buzz-generating blockbusters. 
 ''We'd like to have people lined up outside, waiting to come in,'' said Nancy Newcomb, the chairwoman.
 Mr. Lehrman, who was the Republican candidate for governor of New York in 1982, said there was ''no truth whatsoever'' to the notion that he and Mr. Gilder would seek to dominate the historical society. Still, he added: ''Dick and I are reformers. We are not interested in insulating the status quo from new ideas.''
 Mr. Gilder said he and Mr. Lehrman were no more powerful than other trustees of the society, merely more experienced. 
 ''We can't impose our ideas on them by fiat,'' he said. ''What we're doing that maybe hasn't been done before is to maybe broaden the scope. Americans are ready for this now. We are financial people, and we have a nose for what the market wants.''
 In its 10 years of existence, the Gilder Lehrman Institute has created history-centered public schools and academic research centers, sponsored lectures by historians, organized seminars and enrichment programs and produced publications and traveling exhibitions. It has a renowned slavery archive at Yale University and is a co-sponsor of two of the largest awards for American history books, the Lincoln Prize ($50,000) and the Frederick Douglass Prize ($25,000).
 ''We are not interested in upholding any self-appointed establishment -- on the left or on the right,'' Mr. Lehrman said. ''The scholars we have sponsored, well, the vast majority are more on the liberal side than on the conservative side.''

Exhibition Canceled
 Still, several exhibitions at the historical society have been started or overhauled at least partly at the urging of Mr. Gilder and Mr. Lehrman. At least one has been canceled since their arrival -- an exhibition on the Times Square centennial, one of the steps that prompted objections by Mr. Wallace and other historians that the society's new national focus could leave New York history underrepresented.
 Dr. Mirrer said she canceled the show to focus on ''the needs and space and fund-raising of this institution on our own bicentennial.'' She noted that the society has had a national component since its founding in 1804. 
 ''I see this as an institution that tells the story of American history, as it has been influenced and affected by the history of New York,'' Dr. Mirrer said. ''I would hate for anyone to think that New York and New Yorkers would be irrelevant to whatever we do in this institution.'' 
 A coming exhibition about slavery, however, has been recast to reflect Mr. Lehrman's viewpoint, as expressed in an interview in the society's journal. ''This was an institution supported throughout the world, but Americans took the initiative in destroying it,'' Mr. Lehrman said in that interview, adding that he deplored the view that ''American history consists of one failure after another to deal with the issue of slavery.''
 Originally the show was intended as a modest $50,000 undertaking, called ''From Bondage to Freedom,'' that focused on the realities of slavery in New York. The society has now expanded it into a $2 million would-be blockbuster with national scope. 
 ''Of course we will emphasize the misery and awfulness of it,'' said Mr. Gilder, adding that New York would still figure in the show. ''But what's really interesting is the economic impact it had on the United States. The profits from the slave trade -- did they finance the textile industry, the banking industry, shipping? We want to explore this.''
 Asked if the exhibition would incorporate his view of slavery, Mr. Lehrman said, ''One of the triumphs of America was to have dealt directly with that issue in the agonies of a civil war, and to have passed the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments.'' He added, ''We still have a long way to go.'' 
 The curator of the Hamilton exhibition is Richard Brookhiser, a senior editor at the conservative National Review, who said in an interview that ''the show is my inspiration, reflecting my vision of Hamilton.'' 
 That vision, as reflected in his 1999 book, ''Alexander Hamilton, American'' (Free Press), is that Hamilton was an exemplary American, a founding father with the capacity to ''guide and caution'' contemporary Americans.
 The presidential historian Michael R. Beschloss, writing in a review in The New York Times, said that Mr. Brookhiser's book ''brilliantly succeeds in arguing that Hamilton deserves greater credit than he usually gets for his brainpower, idealism, character and vision.'' Brent Tarter, writing in The Richmond Times-Dispatch, said that Mr. Brookhiser came close to ''hero worship'' in his appreciation of Hamilton. 
 Mr. Brookhiser said that the historical society show would deal ''with the darker sides and the controversial sides -- we present the pro and the con.''
 Several society staff members, who said they were afraid of being fired if their names were printed, said their role in the Hamilton show had been to endorse decisions already made. Although exhibitions were once planned collaboratively, creative control of future exhibitions, they said, is in the hands of the board, outside consultants and the Gilder Lehrman Institute. Mr. Gilder said that ''overall responsibility'' for the exhibition fell to James G. Basker, the institute's president. 
 Still, Dr. Mirrer said that the staff's involvement ''has been significant and tremendous.''

A Shift to Shrines?
 Although Hamilton was an immigrant and slaves were hardly powerful, some historians say they worry that the society's new focus is representative of a larger shift by some museums toward history that emphasizes leaders rather than ordinary people: minorities, women, and immigrants, for example. 
 ''We're seeing those things supplanted by a decision to try to tell a grand public narrative, to create shrines where a patriotic fervor can be cultivated,'' said Richard Rabinowitz, president of the American History Workshop, a Brooklyn company that helps develop museum exhibitions.
 That style of history has a natural tie to archives like the Gilder Lehrman holdings, said David Nasaw, a history professor at the Graduate Center at the City University of New York. 
 ''If you write history based only on primary documents that survive, there is a danger of overemphasizing the role of great white men who left such documents,'' he said. ''There has been great progress in museum exhibitions, in large part because historians have brought a critical eye to the presentation of history in public. I would certainly hope that the same critical eye on our past remains a significant part of the exhibits in the New-York Historical Society.''
 Dr. Mirrer said there was no reason for concern. ''I don't see ideology as having a role at all in future exhibitions,'' she said, adding, ''We would not want to present anything that is devoid of intellectual thought and critical thinking.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts yesterday about changes at the New-York Historical Society referred incorrectly to the status of the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, whose founders, Richard Gilder and Lewis E. Lehrman, joined the society's board last year and lent their collection of historical documents. While the workers who oversee the collection have moved to the society, the institute has not.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Civil War broadside by Frederick Douglass, part of a collection lent to the New-York Historical Society. (Photo by Gilder Lehrman Collection)
Dueling pistols used by Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr in 1804, part of a forthcoming exhibition at the historical society. (Photo by Courtesy of J. P. Morgan Chase)(pg. E5)
 Trustees with a mission: Lewis E. Lehrman, left, and Richard Gilder of the New-York Historical Society. (Photo by New-York Historical Society)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (87%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RELOCATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York Historical Society

PERSON: Lewis Lehrman; Richard Gilder; Robin Pogrebin; Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



393 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: City's 311 Line Takes Big Step Past Potholes

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration is planning a major expansion of the city's information hot line, 311, that will allow callers to find out about concerts, museum exhibits, restaurants, theaters and even last-minute street closings. 
 The addition of a host of tourism- and travel-related listings to the 311 system is being undertaken just in time to help thousands of visitors to the Republican National Convention next month navigate the city by simply picking up a phone, city officials said.
 But the information will also be stored in a new database that will continue to be used after conventiongoers depart.
 The Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications, which operates the 311 system, is working with NYC & Company, the nonprofit organization that markets and promotes the city, to provide the expanded information during the convention. NYC & Company will set up a temporary help desk within the 311 call center in Lower Manhattan to answer calls. It will be staffed from dawn until midnight with 30 convention volunteers per shift . 
 After the convention is over, 311 operators will continue to have access to the database, as will staff members at NYC & Company, said Gino P. Menchini, the commissioner of the city's Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications. Callers looking for information on cultural institutions, concerts and other entertainment offerings will be handled by 311 operators, while those looking for restaurant and hotel locations and the like will be transferred to NYC & Company.
 ''It's going to be a teeth-cutting opportunity for us,'' Mr. Menchini said. ''People will have more information, and information that will be more accurate and better, so I think it's a natural progression of what we've already put in place.''
 Convention organizers have begun to publicize the hot line in mailings, advertisements and on the Internet as the one essential number to call for all convention-related matters. ''Now any city resident, delegate or member of the media can call for information about topics as wide-ranging as visiting hours at the Met and lost credentials,'' said Kevin Sheekey, president of the convention's host committee. 
 But some critics question whether a city-funded information line should be referring callers to restaurants, hotels and other for-profit businesses. 
 Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer, a frequent critic of the 311 system, said: ''311 is supposed to be a government service, and in our city, that's expansive. But I don't think that means restaurant deals, tourism, and boat rides on the Circle Line.''
 The president and chief executive officer of NYC & Company, Cristyne L. Nicholas, said callers will hear the same kind of tourism information already available at the company's visitors center in Midtown. She said convention volunteers and her staff members will not rate restaurants and businesses, but instead will offer general information, like street addresses or hours of operation.
 But NYC & Company, which has a $6 million contract with the city to provide tourism-, business- and convention-development services, is also supported by 1,600 member businesses that pay yearly dues ranging from $500 to $5,000. And its listings emphasize member businesses, Ms. Nicholas said. For example, she said, a caller seeking restaurants in a particular neighborhood would generally be given the names of NYC & Company members first, though information would be given about a nonmember if the caller requested it by name.
 ''Restaurants that have joined NYC & Company have made clear that they are very interested in welcoming tourists,'' she said. ''I think they should be rewarded as good civic boosters.''
 Many of the changes to the hot line are already under way as part of an upgrade, begun in April, to 311's technology, Mr. Menchini said. The system now keeps a running calendar of concerts and street festivals. and can alert callers to last-minute cancellations. For instance, it informed more than 1,000 callers last week that concerts the New York Philharmonic had scheduled in Central Park and Prospect Park in Brooklyn had been rained out. 
 Increasingly, the system is also able to identify cultural institutions and recreation areas by location so that an operator can, upon request, direct a caller to the nearest museum, center for the elderly or public swimming pool, tennis court or golf course. More than 18,000 callers so far have taken advantage of the hot line's enhanced capabilities, according to 311 records.
 The transformation of the 311 line into a one-stop source for cultural and entertainment life comes at a time when cities across the country are seeking to draw more visitors and businesses by setting up local travel and tourism hot lines on a three-digit number, 511, that has been set aside nationwide for that purpose by the Federal Communications Commission. But in New York City, Mr. Menchini said, there are no plans to create a new number, because 311 is available. 
 The system went live in March 2003 as a municipal clearinghouse for even the most mundane government services. Without so much as flipping through a phone book, callers can inquire about alternate-side-of-the-street parking rules, request pothole repairs and lodge complaints about noisy neighbors.
 Since then, 311 has received about 10 million calls and has grown into a $27 million-a-year operation. It takes calls at any hour -- in at least 170 languages -- at a current rate of about 33,000 a day. If callers need more assistance, operators forward them to the appropriate city agencies. They assign tracking numbers to unresolved problems so that callers can check on progress.
 Much of this growth has been driven by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who exhorts people to call 311 at every turn and has been known to reach for the phone himself to report potholes and illegal dump sites. Increasingly, the mayor has also used 311 as a management tool to assess the demand for certain types of city services and to better deploy administration resources. 
 As the system expands, it will gradually absorb many tasks once handled directly by other city agencies, Mr. Menchini said. For instance, this fall, 311 operators will begin taking tree-removal requests that used to be forwarded to the Department of Parks and Recreation, and scheduling plan inspections for the Buildings Department. They will also enroll people in a Health Department program that provides free nicotine patches, and place follow-up calls to make sure the patches are being used.
 City officials said the expansion of 311 next month for the convention would not cost any additional money because it would be largely carried out in-house, using technology that is already part of the system's normal operations. 
 These officials also dismissed concerns that 311 could be overwhelmed with calls during the convention, pointing out that the system handled as many as 175,000 calls in a two-day period during the major blackout last August. Mr. Menchini said he expects a much lower call volume during the convention.
 In the past few months, Mr. Menchini and his staff members have developed a vast database from all of NYC & Company's tourism guides, pamphlets and brochures. It includes listings of restaurants, theaters, churches and dog runs, among other things, that can be easily searched with a few quick keystrokes.
 During the convention, the 311 system will also be programmed to give up-to-the-minute advisories about street closings, bus and subway schedule changes and alternative travel routes in case of unexpected demonstrations. This information will be culled partly from briefings at emergency operations and command centers. Mr. Menchini said that after the convention, traffic updates will continue to be offered, using information from various sources, including the Police and Transportation Departments. 
 ''We are using the convention as an opportunity to get more agencies and more entities to provide us with additional data,'' Mr. Menchini said. ''It's going to be a value to us for the RNC, but it's also going to be there forever.''
 Tim Zagat, the publisher of the popular restaurant survey that bears his name, said the expansion of the 311 system to include dining and cultural information was an added convenience for restaurant patrons that would benefit the city as a whole. ''If they don't have a Zagat guide in their pocket,''' he said, ''they'll still be able to call a number and find out where things are.''
 Gene Russianoff, a senior attorney for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a government oversight organization, cautioned that NYC & Company should be as ''fair-minded and neutral as possible'' in dispensing information about competitive businesses like restaurants through the city-funded 311 line. But overall, he also supported the system's expansion.
 ''I think it's the role of government to make the city a welcoming place,'' he said. ''It helps spark the economy, and it's a service that people want. And it provides benefits to residents as well.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: New York City's 311 hot line operates 24 hours a day, in 170 languages.
 Sharonette Porter at the 311 line, which receives 33,000 calls a day. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CALL CENTERS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Roads and Traffic; Three-One-One (311) (NYC Complaint Hot Line); Hot Lines; Presidential Election of 2004; Hotels and Motels; Restaurants; Travel and Vacations; Conventions, National (US); Culture

ORGANIZATION: NYC & Co

PERSON: Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



394 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE NEW GOVERNMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ GIVES ORDER TO REOPEN PAPER G.I.'S HAD CLOSED

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER; An Iraqi employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Najaf for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 18 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Iyad Allawi on Sunday ordered the reopening of a radical Shiite newspaper closed by United States soldiers nearly four months ago. The closing was a catalyst for some of the worst anti-American mayhem of the occupation.
 Dr. Allawi's decree concerning the newspaper, Al Hawza, was a pointedly conciliatory gesture to Moktada al-Sadr, the rebel Shiite cleric whose associates run the newspaper. The decree came on the same day as Dr. Allawi approved an American airstrike meant to pound another branch of insurgent fighters, in the city of Falluja, a center for attacks on American and Iraqi forces here. 
 Together, Dr. Allawi's two actions seemed early evidence of his stated strategy for taming the deadly insurgency by making concessions to fighters who cooperate and cracking down on those who do not. It is unclear, however, how much influence he has with the American military, though American officials said the airstrike in Falluja was carried out after Dr. Allawi had endorsed it. 
 [But violence in Baghdad continued. On Monday, a suspected car bomb blew up outside a police station in the southwestern part of the capital shortly after 8 a.m., killing at least eight people and wounding four police officers, Reuters reported, citing Iraqi officials, witnesses and the American military.
 [Lt. Adnan Qathan of the Iraqi National Guard said eight people had been killed in the blast, and another guardsman, Wissam Abdel Sattar, said he believed all were civilians. Officials at the Yarmouk hospital said they were treating 52 people who had been wounded.]
 At least 11 people were reported killed in the Falluja airstrike early on Sunday morning against what the American military said were forces allied with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Mr. Zarqawi, a Jordanian militant with reported ties to Al Qaeda, has claimed credit for much of the worst violence in Iraq, including three beheadings in recent weeks and two car bombs on Saturday. The militants in Falluja are largely members of Iraq's minority Sunni sect and foreign fighters.
 Hours after the airstrike, Dr. Allawi announced in a statement that because he believed in freedom of the press he would allow the reopening of Mr. Sadr's newspaper. It had been padlocked March 28 by American soldiers acting on orders of L. Paul Bremer III, the former occupation chief, because he said it had incited anti-American attacks. The closing of the paper incited strong protests by thousands of Iraqis who accused the United States of hypocrisy for silencing dissent in the name of promoting democracy in Iraq. The protests widened into an armed Shiite uprising led by Mr. Sadr in several southern Shiite cities. 
 Since Dr. Allawi took power as head of a new interim government on June 28, he has said repeatedly that his most important task is to restore security and stability to Iraq, wracked by violence that has scared Iraqis, hampered reconstruction and cast a pall over the American effort.
 But he has had to walk a fine line between toughness and compromise: many Iraqis, expressing outrage and humiliation at being occupied, supported attacks against American forces. Dr. Allawi has sought to find a balance by offering amnesty to fighters who did not commit serious crimes, even as he promised hard action against those who did not cooperate.
 Mr. Sadr, a 31-year-old cleric who has a large following among poor and unemployed Shiites, and his aides have offered contradictory statements on Dr. Allawi's new government, but they seem to have settled on cautious and conditional acceptance. His spokesmen have said they could support the government if Dr. Allawi proves he is working on behalf of Iraqis and not under American orders.
 On Sunday, a top aide to Mr. Sadr, Sheik Ahmed al-Shaibani, said it was not up to Dr. Allawi to decide when and if the newspaper resumed publication. But he acknowledged Dr. Allawi's gesture. 
 ''It cannot be denied that it was a good step, but it came very late,'' he said in Najaf, the holy Shiite city south of Baghdad where Mr. Sadr lives. ''What is required from the new government is to extend bridges of trust and cooperation between itself and the people.''
 It was unclear if Dr. Allawi timed his concession to a Shiite branch of the insurgency to soften any public-relations blow among Iraqis -- many skeptical of Dr. Allawi's real power -- from the airstrike against Sunni Muslim militants and foreign fighters in Falluja. 
 American military strikes against Iraqi targets have sometimes served to unite Shiite and Sunni insurgents. The strikes have also reinforced the perception that the United States, which has 140,000 soldiers here, is ultimately in charge.
 At a joint news conference with the Iraqi foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage, visiting Iraq for two days, sought to emphasize the role of the new government in approving the airstrike -- and its power, presumably, to veto it. 
 ''We're not in the front seat anymore with the hand on the steering wheel,'' Mr. Armitage told reporters. ''We are a supporting partner to a sovereign government. They will make decisions.''
 The Iraqi government, he added, was ''fully informed'' about the attack on Falluja, the latest of several bombings against suspected safe houses for Mr. Zarqawi's militants, and he said it ''agreed with us on the need to take action.''
 ''The point is, we didn't just act on our own,'' Mr. Armitage said. ''A sovereign nation had to agree.''
 A military statement said the strike in Falluja was carried out just after 2 a.m. against ''a known terrorist fighting position.'' The strike, the statement said, ''destroyed defensive fighting positions and trench lines near the remains of a house and a foreign fighter checkpoint.'' About 25 insurgents were near the site just before the bombing, the statement said.
 News services quoted Iraqi doctors in Falluja as saying that several women and children were among the dead.
 In his trip here, Mr. Armitage, the highest ranking American official to visit Iraq since the transfer of formal sovereignty, struck many of the same notes as the new American ambassador to Iraq, John D. Negroponte, did the day before, in his first public comments to reporters since arriving here. Both emphasized what they said was Iraq's real sovereignty and a role for America that is supportive in organizing elections, reconstructing the country and calming the violence. 
 Mr. Armitage met with Dr. Allawi and the Iraqi president, Sheik Ghazi Ajil al-Yawar, and discussed security issues and efforts intended to reduce Iraq's $120 billion foreign debt.
 Mr. Armitage pledged continued American cooperation in security and reconstruction.
 ''We understand that Iraq's people need more electricity, more water, more jobs -- and we are determined to find ways to help the government meet these needs,'' he said.
 The strike in Falluja came at a time of escalating violence here after several weeks that had been relatively free of major attacks, and amid what appeared to be a substantial political victory for the insurgents. On Sunday, the Philippine government announced that it would complete the withdrawal of all 51 of its military personnel, the condition that kidnappers here had set for the release of a Filipino hostage, Angelo de la Cruz. 
 The insurgents had threatened to behead Mr. Cruz, a truck driver working for a Saudi company who was captured July 7, unless the Philippine government withdrew its contingent. Credit for the kidnapping was claimed by Mr. Zarqawi's group, which also took responsibility for beheading three other captives, including a Bulgarian truck driver last week.
 On Sunday, Mr. Zebari, the Iraqi foreign minister, repeated his criticism of the Philippine withdrawal. 
 ''This in my view and the view of the Iraqi government has set a bad precedent and sent all the wrong messages,'' he said in the news conference with Mr. Armitage. ''Terrorism should not be rewarded.''
 Marek Belka, the new prime minister of Poland, one of America's crucial allies in Iraq, reinforced his nation's commitment to keeping troops in Iraq through 2005, though he said on Sunday that the numbers would drop substantially at the start of the year. 
 Though Poland has a close relationship with the United States, the deployment of troops to Iraq has been unpopular there. Last week, the government said it would reduce its troop level to 1,000 to 1,500 in January, from 2,400. 
 Mr. Zebari also said 43 new Iraqi ambassadors would be appointed on Monday, as the nation begins to rebuild diplomatic ties. On Monday, Dr. Allawi was expected to visit Jordan, the first stop in visits to other Arab countries, expected to include Egypt, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
 Also on Sunday, the American military said it had captured a former member of Saddam Hussein's elite Republic Guard who is suspected of planning and financing insurgent attacks. The military said it arrested the man, Sufian Maher Hassan, a former Iraqi general, on Friday in Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's hometown.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An Iraqi woman protested yesterday as Iraqi and American soldiers searched her home in Baghdad. (Photo by Zohra Bensemra/Reuters)
 Iraqi policemen and firemen worked yesterday at the scene of a car bombing that wounded one person in Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. (Photo by Salman Amir/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); WITNESSES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); AMNESTY (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); PARDONS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; News and News Media ; Amnesties and Pardons; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Al Hawza (Newspaper)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Ian Fisher; Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi; L Paul III Bremer; Moktada Al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



395 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; TRIATHLON; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Wet Suits, Too Few Openings for Ironman Events

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Clarence Johnson crossed the finish line of the Ironman Canada last year with a rush of pride. A strict training regimen helped Johnson, an amateur triathlete, complete the grueling 140.6-mile course in a respectable 13 hours 45 minutes 14 seconds. But his race to get into the race, held in August, seems just as inspiring. 
 ''I was in Las Vegas at a seminar,'' said Johnson, 58, who was living near Seattle at the time. ''I caught the earliest flight home. I jumped into my truck and started the five-hour drive'' to the race site in Penticton, British Columbia. By 4 a.m., he was outside a hotel, behind 300 athletes camped out with sleeping bags and checkbooks for the race registration, which began at 11 a.m. 
 ''I was out of the building by 2, then I drove back home for another five hours,'' he said. ''Insane? I'm sure a lot of people may think that.''
 But Johnson's tales on and off the race course will raise nary an eyebrow in the triathlon community, where athletes accustomed to extremes are going that extra mile for a chance to do an Ironman. The race entails a 2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile bike ride and a marathon -- a 26.2-mile run -- which must be completed in 17 hours.
 Benjamin Fertic, president of the World Triathlon Corporation in Tarpon Springs, Fla., which licenses Ironman races, says the organization cannot seem to add races fast enough. ''Someone is always asking, 'Why can't you open more events?''' he said.
 Indeed, entry lists for many of the 27 full and half-Ironman races held worldwide, as well as iron-distance races run by other organizations, fill within hours, or at least days, after registration opens. Ironman USA, which takes place Sunday in Lake Placid, N.Y., filled its 2,262 general entry slots within two days. The inaugural Ironman Arizona, to be held in Tempe in April, sold out 2,300 slots in less than two weeks.
 ''We are now where we were about 10 years ago with marathons,'' said John M. Duke, publisher of Triathlete Magazine. The Ironman, he said, is a natural evolution for those striving for a higher pinnacle of fitness.
 Some athletes like Johnson, an insurance executive now living in Tucson, think nothing of camping out overnight to secure a spot. 
 Other athletes, hoping to participate in the Ironman Triathlon World Championship in Kona, Hawaii, in October, will fly halfway around the world to compete in qualifying races, or pay an $85 nonrefundable fee for 150 lottery slots. A few have turned to eBay, where slots have been auctioned off for charity, at up to $50,000 apiece. 
 ''It's like a rock concert,'' said Paula Newby-Fraser, eight-time winner of the Ironman world championship.
 Newby-Fraser, 42, now a partner in the coaching business Multisports.com, has seen a growing interest in Ironman races among everyday people. In her training camps, she said, ''We used to get a lot of real ringer athletes -- good athletes trying to improve -- and now the level is much more beginner oriented.'' 
 Few people had even heard of the Ironman, now in its 26th year, until 1982, when television viewers around the world watched in awe as a fatigued graduate student named Julie Moss, who had been leading the 48 other women, crawled the final 440 yards and finished second in Kona. 
 Fertic, a 1996 Hawaii Ironman finisher, said that moment ignited his own interest in the sport, and undoubtedly many others. The addition of the triathlon -- 1.5-kilometer swim, 40-kilometer bike ride and 10-kilometer run -- to the Olympics in 2000 has not hurt the event's profile, either. 
 ''We really are in the dream fulfillment business,'' Fertic said. ''Each person we touch with that dream never forgets it and recruits two or three other people -- that's how our business grows. The Ironman becomes kind of a lifestyle.''
 It is a lifestyle that requires months of training for each event. And there is a financial commitment: race entry fees as high as $450, in addition to travel expenses and the cost of equipment like racing bikes and wet suits. 
 ''It's a high socioeconomic sport,'' said Duke, noting that his magazine's average reader earns $153,000 a year. 
 All this, of course, has not gone unnoticed by corporate sponsors like Timex and Subaru, which pay six- to seven-figure sums to link their names with the Ironman. ''More companies not sports related are approaching us,'' said Fertic, estimating that sponsorship is up 25 to 30 percent in the last five years. 
 In return, millions of tourism dollars are pumped into the economies of the host sites. The Hawaii Island Economic Development Board says that the championship brings in about $15 million each year. 
 None of that matters to Judy Molnar, 38, of Palm Harbor, Fla. Once ''morbidly obese,'' she said, she started jogging in 1996 to lose weight. 
 ''After I did a 5K, I wanted to go a little bit farther,'' she said. ''It was the same thing with triathlons, which I literally stumbled upon as a way of cross-training.''
 Molnar, more than 100 pounds lighter today, met her husband, Rick Wilson, also a triathlete, while training. In 1999, she finished the Hawaii Ironman in 16 hours 48 minutes 18 seconds. She was recently hired by the World Triathlon Corporation. 
 ''When you cross the finish line, you will forever be changed,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nearly 1,800 competitors churned through Coeur d'Alene Lake in Idaho last month for the Ironman USA event there. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); MARATHONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (70%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (76%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



396 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: INTELLIGENCE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Agency's Iraq Analysis Is Better Than Big Rivals'

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
On Iraq and illicit weapons, the intelligence agency that got it least wrong, it now turns out, was one of the smallest -- a State Department bureau with no spies, no satellites and a reputation for contrariness.
 Almost alone among intelligence agencies, this one, the Bureau of Intelligence and Research, or I.N.R., does not report to either the White House or the Pentagon. Its approach is purely analytical, so that it owes no allegiance to particular agents, imagery or intercepts. It shuns the worst-case plans sometimes sought by military commanders.
 ''They are willing to take on the accepted analysis and take a second, harder look,'' said Alfred Cumming, a former staff director of the Senate Intelligence Committee who is now an intelligence and national security specialist at the Congressional Research Service, a branch of the Library of Congress. 
 With just 165 analysts, the bureau is about one-tenth the size of the Central Intelligence Agency's analytical arm. But its analysts tend to be older (most are in their 40's and 50's), more experienced and more likely to come from academic backgrounds than those at other agencies, and they are more often encouraged to devote their careers to the study of a particular issue or region.
 ''They have a reputation for having personnel who have skills in one specific area, as opposed to being utility infielders,'' said Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
 That panel's otherwise scathing report on prewar intelligence on Iraq not only spared the Bureau of Intelligence and Research from most of its harsh criticisms, but explicitly endorsed the dissent it had inserted into the National Intelligence Estimate of 2002, challenging as unsubstantiated the view of other agencies that Iraq was reconstituting its nuclear weapons program.
 In addition, where the 2002 assessment included a prediction by other agencies that Iraq could develop a nuclear weapon within a decade, the State Department bureau said pointedly that it was unwilling to ''project a timeline for the completion of activities it does not now see happening.''
 The bureau was still apparently wrong, along with other intelligence agencies, in asserting that Iraq possessed chemical and biological weapons. But Congressional officials say that over all, its recent record on Iraq has been better than that of its larger rivals, including the C.I.A., with more than 1,500 analysts, and the Defense Intelligence Agency, with more than 3,000.
 The example of the State Department bureau, Congressional officials say, is being closely studied as the White House and Congress debate what changes may help intelligence agencies avoid additional failures. 
 Among other recent successes, the bureau's admirers say, was a classified report in 2003 that criticized the Bush administration view that a victory in Iraq would help spread democracy across the Arab world. It also predicted correctly that Turkey might not permit American troops to cross its territory en route to Iraq and dismissed as ''highly dubious'' a British contention, now discredited, that Iraq was trying to procure uranium from Niger.
 Not surprisingly, the praise that has been directed at the bureau, including a widely noticed column in May by David Ignatius in The Washington Post, has prompted some backbiting at other intelligence agencies from officials who argue that its successes are being exaggerated.
 ''Everyone has to get it right once in awhile,'' a senior Defense Department official said with some sarcasm.
 ''It's not in my interest to trash a fellow member of the intelligence community,'' another senior intelligence official said of the bureau. ''But those who think they get it completely right are not completely familiar with the record.''
 Not even the State Department bureau's admirers say that it alone represents the answer to the kinds of shortcomings discussed in the Senate report, which criticized as unreasonable and unfounded most of the conclusions reached by intelligence agencies on issues related to Iraq and its illicit weapons. 
 The bureau, with about 300 people in all, including support staff, is too small to shoulder the kind of analytical burden placed on the C.I.A. and the even larger analytical branch of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Its bureaucratic distance from spymasters at the C.I.A., the signals-intelligence mavens at the National Security Agency and the satellite gurus at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency means that it has little interaction with those who actually collect information around the world, intelligence officials say.
 Any restructuring, the bureau's admirers say, should preserve debate and rivalry among the intelligence agencies' analytical branches, which in addition to the State Department agency and the C.I.A.'s Directorate of Intelligence include most of the Defense Intelligence Agency; an element of the geospatial agency, which interprets satellite imagery; the intelligence office in the Department of Energy; and analytical offices in the military services.
 ''The analysts at I.N.R. are a curmudgeonlike group who delight in being different and getting to the body of something and not caring what other people think,'' said Carl W. Ford Jr., a former career C.I.A. official who led the State Department bureau from 2001 until he retired in late 2003. 
 But still, Mr. Ford added in an interview, ''It is important for all of us in the intelligence community to talk about where we went wrong.'' 
 In retrospect, Mr. Ford and current State Department officials say, its bureau should have extended its doubts about others' assessments of Iraq's nuclear program to the issue of chemical and biological weapons. They also credit experts at the Department of Energy, who also operate independently of the White House and the Pentagon, for taking the lead in challenging the C.I.A.'s view on a critical question related to Iraq's nuclear weapons program. 
 The C.I.A. and other agencies concluded that aluminum tubes shipped to Iraq were intended for use in centrifuges as part of that nuclear program; the Energy Department and the bureau strongly disagreed. But senior State Department officials say they believed that a combination of experience and independence gave their analysts the confidence to challenge the judgments of the C.I.A., the dominant agency within the community. 
 ''We're not flogging the fruits of anybody's collection system,'' a senior State Department official said. ''For us it's information, not looking to advance N.S.A.'s budget or C.I.A.'s saying, 'Golly, gee whiz, look what we've got.' ''
 Altogether, the team of State Department analysts most directly involved in assessing Iraq's political structure, economy, conventional military forces and supposed illicit weapons numbered no more than 10 people, said State Department officials, but many had more than a decade of experience in the subjects on which they were focusing.
 Those officials refused to identify the analyst whose dissent on Iraq's nuclear program proved particularly prescient, but said the official had worked on the subject for more than 12 years under a supervisor who had twice as many years of expertise.
 As an example of the kind of analyst the State Department bureau embraces, the State Department officials pointed to Thomas Fingar, who was Mr. Ford's principal deputy and is awaiting Senate confirmation to lead the bureau as assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research. Mr. Fingar has spent 19 years at the bureau, having been recruited from Stanford University, where he had spent the previous decade as a political scientist. 
 In recounting where their bureau got it right on the question of Iraq, State Department officials acknowledge that the success was hollow, in large part because Secretary of State Colin L. Powell ultimately sided with the C.I.A. and not with his own intelligence shop.
 In February 2003, Mr. Powell spent several days at C.I.A. headquarters reviewing intelligence in preparation for his Feb. 5 speech to the United Nations Security Council, in which he laid out the administration's case for a possible war against Iraq. Mr. Powell did not invite any officials from the bureau to accompany him as part of the review, and his speech endorsed the very view on Iraq's nuclear weapons from which the bureau had dissented so strongly.
 ''After reviewing all of the intelligence provided by the Intelligence Community,'' the Senate committee wrote in its report, the panel ''believes that the judgment in the National Intelligence Estimate, that Iraq was reconstituting its nuclear program, was not supported by the intelligence.''
 ''The committee agrees with the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research alternative view that the available intelligence 'does not add up to a compelling case for reconstitution.' '' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LIBRARIES (68%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Intelligence Services; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%) Bureau of Intelligence and Research; Central Intelligence Agency; State Department

PERSON: PAT ROBERTS (58%) Douglas Jehl

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



397 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Some Storytellers Of 90's Innovation Plan Comebacks, However Modest

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
There are any number of indicators, economic and otherwise, that Silicon Valley is no longer the graveyard of broken dreams. 
 And, not so coincidentally, publishers, many of them wiped out by the collapse of the digital economy, have returned to the scene of their abasement.
 John Battelle, former chief executive of The Industry Standard, has a media product up his sleeve, one that he is not ready to talk about. The new owners of Red Herring, a brawny emblem of Silicon Valley's might that died a slow, painful death and crept along as a Web site, have announced plans to bring back the publication. Technology Review, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology magazine, has hired a former editor of Red Herring and is aggressively expanding coverage. And Business 2.0 and Wired, magazines that suffered mightily after the market collapse, are posting their first advertising gains in four years. 
 Publications may be coming back, but the billions that sloshed around for a few brief years have not come with them. 
 This time, the cheerleaders of all things digital hope to hedge their bets by using the Web, and magazines more sparingly, to reach both a mass audience and the advertisers who seek them. 
 ''It will be interesting to see what the balance is between electronic publishing and paper,'' said Paul Saffo, a director of the Institute for the Future, a Silicon Valley research group. 
 Many of the most prominent magazines of the prosperous old era collapsed because they adopted the capitalization model of the industry they covered: Borrow more than you need, grow at all costs and worry about profit later. When the financing evaporated, the burden of heavy debt forced them out of business.
 But even if publishers take a more chaste approach, the new generation of technology magazines will not be what it rich predecessor was.
 ''Whatever comes back is going to be substantially smaller because there has been so much consolidation in the industry,'' said Mark Edmiston of AdMedia Partners, a media investment firm. ''And a lot of the advertising that drove these magazines in the first place is not coming back.''
 Still, the story, and many of its better-known chroniclers, are not going away. ''I do think that there is something important going on that is a continuation of what happened in the late 90's,'' said Mr. Battelle, who is writing a book on search technologies. ''It would be silly to pretend that those technologies have gone away, but we have learned a lot from the last time around.''
 He continued: ''After The Standard closed, I had my own crisis of faith, and I questioned whether I wanted to move on to a new story. But I am still fascinated by it. I love the energy of this new crop of entrepreneurs. This time, they aren't planning to go public and get rich. They just want to build little gems that work.'' 
 There was a time when the sheer weight of the technologically oriented magazines, groaning as they were with ads, threatened to strain the executives who lugged them around. At its height, in September 2000, Red Herring exceeded 550 pages and weighed more than two pounds. Fast Company, Wired, Business 2.0, eCompany Now and The Industry Standard all struggled to come up with enough articles to keep up with the flood of advertising pages.
 The entire category is much smaller now. ECompany Now, owned by Time Inc., was combined with Business 2.0; Red Herring and The Industry Standard went out of business; Fast Company continues to struggle, while Wired has broadened into a magazine about science and culture that is gaining new traction with advertisers, its ad pages up almost 6 percent so far this year. And the tendency to lionize the next big idea has been tempered by the last go-round. 
 Many journalists who accepted the new math of the new economy in the same way as some of the people they covered were left feeling chastened. As a result, even as Amazon has ground its way to profitability and Google demonstrated that there is the gold of newly offered shares in search technology, much of the coverage is riven with skepticism.
 ''My current feeling is that some of the really great stuff that is going on out here tends to be underplayed,'' said Josh Quittner, editor of Business 2.0. ''Because the profession was lambasted for cheerleading, coverage is now focused on debunking.'' Ad pages at Business 2.0 are up 17 percent in the first six months of this year from the first half of 2003.
 James Daly, who was the founding editor of Business 2.0 before it was sold to Time Inc., has switched stories. This fall, he will serve as editor on Edutopia, a six-times-a-year magazine backed by the filmmaker George Lucas that is intended to focus on innovation in education.
 ''In the valley, entrepreneurialism comes up out of the soil, so I don't doubt that it will come back,'' Mr. Daly said. ''But the business story for the last three years did not have the same energy. People are digging in for the long haul, and I didn't find that terribly interesting. I am more interested in where the next generation of scientists, entrepreneurs and innovators comes from.''
 The possibility that Red Herring, once a blustery cheerleader for all things digital, will be reborn in print is a testament to the hardiness and unbowed optimism of new technology diehards. Alex Vieux, the French-born chief executive of Dasar Inc., the current owner of Red Herring, said that a lower cost structure, a global reach and a newfound humility would make what he hopes will be a weekly magazine succeed where its predecessor did not.
 ''We are going to write with excessive soberness and try not to push the entrepreneurial agenda,'' Mr. Vieux said. ''We are in it for the long term. We can't just be great in 2005. We want to still be alive in 2010.''
 Anthony Perkins, one of the leading evangelists of the era as chief executive of the old Red Herring, thinks that the media that return to cover the new digital story will take another form. His Web site, AlwaysOn, combines elements of blogging -- the practice of annotating events in real time on the Web -- and social networking, which allows users of the site to find and interact with one another. Although he may begin publishing a magazine quarterly based on the Web site, he says that a paper-based chronicle of business and technology news will not be the primary source of information.
 Some of the journalists who are staying with technology-oriented coverage will also be doing it from a different vantage point. Jason Pontin, former editor in chief of Red Herring, said he had pretty much decided to move on after the crash. But he now finds himself at M.I.T., where he was recently named editor in chief of Technology Review.
 ''I had no wish to saddle up one more time,'' Mr. Pontin said, ''but step by step I was seduced. I fell in love with the editorial mission, which is to describe emerging technologies and say why they matter.'' 
 And those journalists who have moved on to other stories still feel pangs of nostalgia for a time when stolid measures like profitability were thought of as passe. ''I miss the sense that every day, new businesses were being created and old businesses were being ripped up,'' said James Ledbetter, former European editor of The Industry Standard and now a senior editor at Time magazine.
 Jonathan Weber, who served as editor of The Industry Standard, is in Missoula, Mont., where he has spent some time teaching and consulting and is now interested in starting a magazine. But it will be based on a region -- he is looking at a magazine that covers the American West -- not a business theology.
 ''We had a great story on our hands, we covered it well, the story changed and then the magazine went out of business,'' Mr. Weber said, adding that ''there are a lot of wonderful stories out there.''
 Similarly, Jane Goldman, who served in a variety of senior editorial roles at The Standard, remains interested in publishing, but her journalistic appetites have changed. In the fall, she will begin publishing Chow, a food magazine based in San Francisco that she is building on a shoestring. In a sense, she is living the entrepreneurial life she once covered, though without the limitless frontier. 
 ''I have been making the rounds of venture capitalists over the last year looking for funding for the magazine,'' she said, ''and although the energy is coming back, there is nothing like the galvanized feeling that existed in the boom years. In those days, everybody was confident that they were doing amazing work and that the world was at their feet. There was a belief that everyone was watching and you know what? For a time, everyone was.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Weber, left, former editor of The Industry Standard, hopes to start a magazine that covers the American West. Jason Pontin, once of Red Herring, has been named to edit Technology Review at M.I.T. (Photo by Tom Bauer for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
James Daly
Anthony Perkins
John Battelle
 Jane Goldman (pg. C1)Chart: ''The Class of 2000: Then and Now''James DalyFormer editor of Business 2.0Now editor in chief of Edutopia, a new education magazine focusing on innovation.Anthony PerkinsFormer chief executive of Red HerringFounder of AlwaysOn, a blog and social network site for the digital business.John BattelleFormer chief executive of The Industry StandardWriting a book on search technologies and working on a start-up media property.Jane GoldmanFormer managing editor of The Industry StandardWorking on the first issue of a new, San Francisco-based food magazine called Chow. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Magazines; Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (54%)

PERSON: David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



398 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: City Is Gambling on an Old Program to Cure Homelessness

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
To reduce homelessness in New York City by two-thirds, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pledged to do last month, the city plans to rely on a broadly expanded version of a program that combines new housing with intensive social services.
 For 20 years, that program, known as ''supportive housing,'' has been largely restricted to single people, most of whom have severe mental or physical problems like schizophrenia or AIDS. The Bloomberg administration is gambling that the program will be equally effective for families, former convicts and former wards of foster care, many of whom have very different medical and economic needs.
 City officials acknowledge that their plan is based on instinct as much as on science. Independent studies have shown that supportive housing works for chronic street people who are mentally ill, saving tax dollars that would otherwise be spent on emergency visits to hospitals and shelters. There is little research on whether the concept will work for families or other homeless people, who might benefit as much from less expensive, no-frills subsidized housing. 
 ''We were only able to measure the effectiveness of housing for singles after we built it,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, the city's commissioner for homeless services. ''We do feel convinced that there are other populations who will benefit from the model.'' 
 The administration's thinking reflects the success of earlier supportive housing efforts. By most accounts, supportive housing for singles, which was started in the city in 1980's, was crucial in lowering the number of homeless people on New York streets throughout the 1990's, though the number is rising again. New York was one of the first to use the program, and it remains the principal tool to combat street homelessness in most urban areas across the nation. 
 The program works by keeping the services tenants need close to their apartments. Typically, a group of subsidized apartments shares a building with social workers and a visiting support staff of psychiatrists and doctors. Although the tenants hold leases and pay some portion of their rent, they must abide by the rules of the project, which may include mandatory monitoring by social workers or an obligation to remain in drug treatment.
 There are about 20,000 supportive housing units in the five boroughs, most of which are for individuals with problems so severe that they cannot live independently. The administration has proposed building 12,000 more units, though the city has not yet said how much the plan will cost or which groups will get which units. 
 As the population in city shelters has ballooned sharply in recent years to nearly 40,000 people, including 8,700 families, advocates for the homeless have pushed to go beyond the use of the program for single people. Subsidized housing alone is insufficient, they say, citing city statistics showing that nearly a third of homeless families who received subsidized apartments in the last decade became homeless again. The advocates want roughly 1,500 to 2,000 units of the 12,000 units proposed by the mayor to be allotted to families. 
 ''There are a subset of homeless families that, even with affordable housing, return to the shelter system because they have barriers to independence like domestic violence and drug addiction,'' said Maureen Friar, executive director of the Supportive Housing Network of New York. ''Rather than have them cycle through years of chaos, supportive housing is the best promise to break the cycle.''
 But the costs for supportive housing are steep. The government's share (usually split between the state, the city and Washington) can be as high as $16,000 a year for a single person and $30,000 a year for a large family, according to Ms. Friar's group, a nonprofit organization that represents groups building low-cost housing that includes attached social services. By comparison, subsidized rent vouchers for a family of six would be closer to $18,000 a year.
 Ms. Gibbs said the city was trying to develop its own estimate of how many family apartments will be needed. But Dennis Culhane, an associate professor of social welfare policy at the University of Pennsylvania, who conducted the original study showing the effectiveness of the program for single people, said creating new units for families made him nervous.
 He said his research showed that 90 percent of the time, a simple rent voucher was enough to prevent families from returning to homelessness. Although families do return to shelters in New York, he said that was largely because of bureaucratic errors, not the deep psychiatric problems that many single people have. ''These families are not service-needy,'' he said.
 Mr. Culhane said that as many as 10 to 15 percent of people in supportive housing no longer needed the services they moved in for, but that they stayed because the rents are so low. When much of the city's supportive housing units for AIDS patients were being built, he noted, male patients were often dying. Now prescription drugs make it possible for such patients to lead fairly normal lives and no longer need much of the intensive in-home care that the city is charged for, he said.
 At Dreitzer House, a neat redbrick tower on 115th Street in East Harlem, it is possible to glean how the promises and pitfalls of supportive housing for families may play out. Dreitzer is one of a handful of family supportive housing complexes in the city, run by Palladia Inc., a nonprofit organization that provides numerous services for poor families, especially for those with chronic substance abusers. Residents agree to at least one visit a month with a social worker and can use amenities like a computer room, a library, and an art training program for children. 
 Dreitzer's 36 apartments still have most of the tenants who were in the project when it opened in 1999. To Jane Velez, the president of Palladia, the low turnover is a sign that supportive housing produces stability and is catching and mitigating crises as they occur. 
 ''For most of our families who are talking about generations of problems and complex problems,'' she said, ''even when they are stabilized they are vulnerable.''
 But Sandra Tucker, the social worker at Dreitzer, thinks that perhaps 12 of the 36 families have grown enough in their five years there to be able to live without support. She mentioned Marcia Covington, 41, who lives in a tight three-bedroom apartment with six children. In 1994, Ms. Covington said, she was living in subsidized housing in East Elmhurst but had become so addicted to crack that she began leaving her children at home alone for long periods. Her fifth child was born addicted. She hit rock bottom the next year, Ms. Covington said, and voluntarily placed her children in foster care and began drug treatment with Palladia. 
 Since 1997, Ms. Covington has been free of drugs, she said, and has held a job in a law office. The apartment she was assigned at Dreitzer enabled her to get her children back from foster care, and they seem to be doing well. The apartment is immaculate, because each child has a chore and all six are in school or working. Artwork from one son in the in-house program decorates the walls. 
 She acknowledged that the supportive living has been a help, but said she dreamed of total independence. ''I think I could make it on my own,'' she said, ''if I could ever find housing that I could afford.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marcia Covington, in kitchen pass-through, with her six children, from left, Alliyah, Lekia, Anthony, Krystle, Robert and Walter, in their home in Dreitzer House, at left, on 115th Street in East Harlem. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (94%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); PRISONS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%) Homeless Persons; Renting and Leasing; Mental Health and Disorders; Prisons and Prisoners; Vouchers; Housing; Homeless Persons

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Leslie Kaufman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



399 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE NORTH CAROLINA SENATOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Scores a Few Amens in Florida

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Fla., July 18 

 BODY:
John Edwards approached the end of his first week of solo campaigning as John Kerry's running mate by hammering economic themes during three stops in Florida and emphasizing the state's importance to the Democratic campaign.
 To an enthusiastic crowd of worshipers at St. Mark's A.M.E. Church in Orlando, Mr. Edwards mentioned news reports Sunday that wages for American workers had not kept pace with inflation. 
 ''I don't think that comes as news to the people here,'' he said, to a burst of amens from the congregation.
 ''We have got to do more to help families who are struggling to make ends meet,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''For too many families, it takes every dime they make just to pay their bills, and if something goes wrong -- a child gets sick, if somebody gets laid off, if they have financial problems -- they go right off a cliff. And people say this is the best economy in our lifetime? We can do better than this, and we will.''
 Mr. Edwards, the presumptive vice-presidential nominee, repeatedly mentioned the close 2000 contest in Florida, and the controversial recount that resulted in a narrow victory for George W. Bush. 
 ''We will make sure your votes get counted this time,'' Mr. Edwards told the St. Mark's congregation.
 In an interview with local reporters after the church service, Mr. Edwards reiterated the need to ensure that black voters, in particular, were confident in the integrity of this year's election.
 ''What most African-American voters want -- not just in Florida, but everywhere -- is to know that they are going to get a chance to register, they're not going to be intimidated, they will get a chance to vote and their vote will be counted,'' a pool report quoted him as saying.
 ''They don't want to be disenfranchised,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''A lot of sweat, blood and tears have gone into getting African-Americans the right to vote and we have to make sure, all of us.''
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards toured several critical states in the days after the vice-presidential selection was announced, but in the last week Mr. Edwards has campaigned on his own -- visiting Iowa, Illinois, Louisiana, Texas and California before Sunday's swing through Florida.
 He spoke to a few hundred Orange County, Fla., political leaders Sunday afternoon at one of the huge hotels that line Interstate 4 south of Orlando, near Walt Disney World and the area's other theme parks. 
 Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, introduced Mr. Edwards, saying that the I-4 corridor was ''ground zero'' in the Democrats' efforts to win the state in November.
 ''As we get ready, take nothing for granted,'' Mr. Edwards told the audience.
 Mr. Edwards spoke later in another giant hotel ballroom, here on the Atlantic coast between Miami and Fort Lauderdale, and again emphasized economic issues in between bursts of praise for Mr. Kerry.
 ''What America needs is a commander in chief who will lead the world, not bully it,'' Mr. Edwards said. 
 Mr. Edwards has been the target of campaign jabs from both President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney in recent days, but he refrained on Sunday from firing back -- or even mentioning the vice president. 
 Instead, Mr. Edwards, of North Carolina, stuck doggedly to the message he had delivered all week, praising Mr. Kerry and promising that theirs would be a ''campaign of hope'' based on ''real values'' that eschews the ''old and tired politics of hate'' exemplified by Republican television advertisements.
 It was reminiscent of the upbeat theme Mr. Edwards struck in the final days leading to the Iowa caucuses in January, which distinguished him from the harsh attacks by some of the other Democratic candidates and was credited with propelling his campaign to a surprisingly strong second-place finish. 
 He flew back Sunday night to North Carolina, where another fund-raiser was scheduled for Monday. Since heading out on his own, Mr. Edwards has attended five fund-raisers that brought an estimated $3.2 million into the campaign, a party spokesman said.
 After that, he will take time off the trail in Washington -- working on his acceptance speech -- before heading out again on Thursday.
 The Democratic convention opens on July 26 in Boston. Mr. Edwards is scheduled to give his acceptance speech on July 28.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards, campaigning alone, spoke of the economy yesterday during stops in Florida. He greeted members of the staff at the Wyndham Palace resort near Orlando after speaking at an event there. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Election Issues; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2000

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BILL NELSON (57%) Rick Lyman; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



400 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Allawi Orders Reopening Of Radical Iraq Newspaper
Prime Minister Iyad Allawi of Iraq ordered the reopening of a radical Shiite newspaper closed by United States soldiers nearly four months ago. The closing was a catalyst for some of the worst anti-American mayhem of the occupation. Dr. Allawi also approved an American airstrike in Falluja. A1

Terrorism Drawing Converts
A growing group of converts to Islam have veered into extremism, raising concerns among antiterrorism officials on both sides of the Atlantic that the new recruits could provide foreign-born Islamic militants with invisibility and cover. A1

3 Americans Face Afghan Court
The three Americans who were arrested by the Afghan police on July 5 for operating an illegal jail in Kabul appeared in court at a preliminary hearing. The men were also charged with robbing, beating and torturing their detainees. A3

Trial Ends Abruptly in Iran
Iran's hard-line judiciary abruptly ended the trial of an intelligence agent charged with killing an Iranian-Canadian photojournalist and said a verdict would come later. Lawyers for her family protested, saying the court had not heard their witnesses' testimony. A7

India Addresses School Safety
The southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu ordered all of its schools to stop holding classes in any room with a thatched roof. It also gave schools one week to remove the roofs, or face closing. The crackdown followed a catastrophic private school fire that killed 90 children. A7

War Crimes Suspected in Sudan
Pro-government militias in the Darfur region of Sudan have been accused of using sexual violence to humiliate black African women and girls as well as the rebels fighting the government in Khartoum. Amnesty International said the attacks amounted to war crimes and crimes against humanity. A9

NATIONAL A11-15

Kerry Campaign Creates Set of Legal Safeguards
Senator John Kerry's campaign is putting together a far more intricate set of legal safeguards than any presidential candidate before him to monitor the election, aides to Mr. Kerry said. A1

9/11 Panel to Lobby Nationwide
Members of the independent Sept. 11 commission say they will mount a nationwide lobbying campaign to press the president and Congress to overhaul the nation's intelligence agencies, an effort they say will begin with a report criticizing the way the government collects and shares intelligence. A13

Edwards Focuses on Economy
John Edwards neared the end of his first week of solo campaigning as John Kerry's running mate by focusing on the economy during three stops in Florida and emphasizing the state's importance to the Democratic campaign. A12

Governor Criticizes Lawmakers
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger lashed out at the leaders of the Democratic-dominated Legislature in California, saying the Democrats were too weak to pass the state's budget. A11

Georgia Denies DNA Request
In the first test of a Georgia statute permitting convicts to seek exonerations through DNA test, the state's Supreme Court and the parole board have denied an inmate's request to have his DNA tested. A11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Study Examines Heart Surgery
A study of heart patients is testing whether sharply increasing the number of heart patients who undergo surgery instead of just taking medication would be beneficial. A1

Drug Test in Alzheimer's Onset
A drug used to treat Alzheimer's disease may briefly delay its onset in people with memory problems that sometimes lead to the disease, researchers reported. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Hot Line to Include Information for Tourists
Just in time for the Republican National Convention, the Bloomberg administration is planning a major expansion of New York City's information hot line, 311, that will allow callers to find out about concerts, museum exhibits, restaurants, theaters and last-minute street closings. B1

Plan to Fight Homelessness
New York City plans to rely on a broadly expanded version of a program that combines new housing with intensive social service to reduce homelessness in the city by two-thirds, as Mayor Bloomberg pledged to do last month. B1

Buffalo's Deficit Battle
Buffalo's overall debt rating since the state imposed a financial control board more than a year ago has been upgraded from negative to stable. But some residents say city budget cuts made in tandem with the takeover may impair crucial services, like police and fire protection. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Unknown Takes British Open
Todd Hamilton outlasted Ernie Els in a four-hole playoff and overcame one of the strongest leader boards in recent major golf championship history to beat the odds and capture the 133rd British Open. Mr. Hamilton was ranked 56th in the world. D1

ARTS E1-8

Concerns at Historical Society
Richard Gilder and Lewis E. Lehrman joined the board of the New-York Historical Society a year ago, lent the institution their renowned collection of historical documents and created a $1 million vault to house the archive at their own expense. But some historians and society staff members are concerned the two men are dangling the prize of their collection on the condition that the society go along with their interests. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Limit on Radio Commercials
Clear Channel Radio plans to announce that it will limit the number of commercials that its more than 1,200 stations can play, a move that analysts said could ripple through the industry even before it takes effect at the start of next year. C1

Bank Inquiry Points Up Gaps
A Senate panel has concluded that Riggs Bank executives and bank regulators failed to monitor suspicious financial transactions involving hundreds of millions of dollars. A1

MSN Is Out of the Red
Microsoft's MSN 8 Internet service has finally started to see some profits, after years of losing money in its bid to compete with longtime rival America Online. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B7

Maj. Gen. Charles W. Sweeney
The pilot who flew the B-29 Superfortress that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the second atomic strike on Japan in the final days of World War II, he was 84. B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Prescription for trouble; a Filipino retreat; the right to bare arms; Adam Cohen on New York 2004 and Chicago 1968.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E5
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LOBBYING (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WOMEN (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); WITNESSES (74%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); TORTURE (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ROBBERY (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (69%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

 
