

601 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Living Rent-Free, in Return for Restoration

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
FOR YEARS, Stephen Wecker wanted to own a historic home that he could operate as a country inn. He and his wife, Patti, traveled all over the country looking at places until he finally realized that they couldn't afford to both buy and maintain such a property.
Similarly, Agnes Bartlett had always planned to live out her retirement years in an 18th-century house. She and her husband, Lawrence, looked at several but couldn't find a suitable one for sale. 
 Both couples eventually realized their goals through Maryland's resident-curatorship program, under which they could live in state-owned houses -- paying no rent, mortgage or property taxes -- in return for restoring the property. The program requires potential residents to submit a detailed five-year plan to the state before moving in.
"This is no free lunch," said Ross M. Kimmel, the program's initiator and now supervisor of Cultural Resource Management for Maryland's Department of Natural Resources. "We have to approve their plan and we want to see regular progress reports."
Typically, curators spend about $100,000 over a period of years to restore a property, Mr. Kimmel said. They are required to sign an agreement with the state relinquishing all claims upon the property upon the termination of the curator relationship. Even appliances that may have been bought by the curator revert to the state.
But the program has appealed to people with skills -- or friends with skills -- who want to live in exceptional houses they would otherwise never be able to afford.
The Weckers and their four children, for example, now live in a 3,000-square-foot house in Howard County on a 16-acre property that also includes an 18th-century inn, a 2,000-square-foot house and two buildings thought to have been slave quarters. While the Weckers are restoring the larger house, Mr. Wecker's brother, Dan, is restoring the smaller one and all of them are restoring the inn and the slave quarters.
"Sometimes we look around and we can't believe we live here," Mrs. Wecker said. "Before this, we were going to buy a $250,000 house and split the upstairs with our in-laws."
The curatorship program is designed to make use of the state's considerable supply of historic properties. In the 1960's and '70's, Maryland used open-space funds to buy a vast amount of land. With over 330,000 acres, Maryland is now the state's largest landowner.
Along with the land came buildings, about 1,200 in all, a third of which have been deemed by the state's Maryland Historical Trust to have historic significance.
MOST of these buildings are not available for curatorships. They are either being used by the state or have fallen into the category of ruins. A small percentage of the historic structures, while too deteriorated to be useful to the state, are still of sufficient historic merit to warrant preservation. In 1980 it was estimated that $13 million would be needed to take care of them, he said, but nothing like that was available.
The solution came about through a bit of serendipity.
The Bartletts were in Baltimore County with a realtor one day looking for 18th-century houses when they spotted a two-story stone farmhouse built in 1770. Upon investigation, they found out that the house and surrounding farm were part of Gunpowder State Park.
"When we found out the state wouldn't sell it to us," Mr. Bartlett said, "we said, 'Let us restore it,' and they agreed."
That was in 1982. Now there are 20 such curatorships scattered throughout the state. From time to time the state holds an open house at a restorable home and the names of people who express interest in a curatorship go into a computerized file. When a property goes into the program, notices go out to those in the file.
It usually takes curators several years to get the houses into habitable condition. When the Bartletts first saw their dream house, the walls were warped, the roof leaked and termites had already damaged the structure.
"If we hadn't gotten hold of it when we did, it would be rubble by now," Mr. Bartlett said.
The Bartletts estimate they spent four years and around $200,000 restoring the house, about $50,000 more than their original estimate.
That's fairly typical, according to Mr. Kimmel, who said, "The curators always wind up laying out one quarter to one third more than they initially thought,"
Any restoration expenses can be written off as charitable deductions to the state. Nontheless, some people had to drop out of the program because they were losing too much money. One couple left after having spent about $8,000 because by then they realized that restoration would be beyond their capacity.
From the state's prespective, the program is pure profit.
"We've estimated that we already received about $1.5 million in free restoration work," Mr. Kimmel said. "And that's just out-of-pocket expenses. That doesn't include the labor."
At first glance, the program also sounds like a great deal for the curators. But out of every 100 people who inquire about it, Mr. Kimmel estimates, only two or three follow up.
"It takes special people," he said. "We've been lucky so far in finding just the right people for the job."
As an added incentive in drawing more curators to the program, the state offers a means by which they, too, can turn a profit. In special cases, the state will offer curators long-term commercial leases, allowing them to operate a business in some of the buildings.
THAT is what drew the Wecker brothers to the program. In addition to being resident curators in, and restoring, the two houses, they are restoring the slave quarters, turning them into a museum, and the 9,000-square-foot 1774 Elkridge Furnace Inn. For four years they have been replacing windows, installing a heating system and bringing the inn up to commercial code in the hope of opening it as a bed-and-breakfast by the fall.
As a result of all their hard work, the state agreed to sign a 40-year commercial lease with the Weckers, stipulating that once the business is in operation, they will pay the state 3 percent of their gross receipts. The lease calls for payment of $400 a month, but in return for all the work the Weckers have done -- and the Weckers say they have spent several hundred thousand dollars -- the state is requiring no rent until the year 2004.
(Several other curators, Mr. Kimmel said, have commercial ventures in buildings on their state property, but not in the houses in which they live.)
The Weckers are unique curators in that they do not have much upfront capital. Dan runs a catering business in the finished rooms of the inn to cover some of their out-of-pocket expenses. The rest comes from Stephen's full-time job in the printing business.
For much of the labor involved in the restoration, the brothers employ a barter-style economic arrangement. For instance, Dan recently catered a wedding in exchange for getting new windows installed in the inn. They also rely heavily on a network of community volunteers and congregants from their church group.
Patti Wecker said she would not recommmend their life style to the faint-of heart.
"You have to work 12-hour days and get up the next morning and do it again," she said.
She also worries about the long-term because as hard as they've worked, their business will disappear when it reverts to the state on the deaths of the curators.
Mrs. Wecker is hoping that once the business is operating profitably, she and her husband will be able to save enough money to buy another inn.
"Hopefully," she said, "we can start another business there. This way, at least, we'll have something to leave to our children."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence and Agnes Bartlett at 1770 restoration, Stephen and Patti Wecker and family at their project; both are in Maryland. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND UNITED STATES (96%); MARYLAND, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PUBLIC PROPERTY; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, LAWRENCE; BARTLETT, AGNES; WECKER, STEPHEN; WECKER, PATTI; VIZARD, MARY MCALEER STEPHEN WECKER (74%); ROSS M KIMMEL (69%); AGNES BARTLETT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



602 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Hurdles on the Road to a Place for Escape

BYLINE: By Nick Ravo

 BODY:
PEOPLE who yearn to own a place for escape -- whether on weekends or vacation, in the country or at the beach -- also have to consider how to pay for it.
For many prospective buyers, interest rates, down payment requirements and credit standards are similar to those for a primary residence. for buyers who already have a mortgage, it may be difficult to meet the standard for the maximum amount of mortgage debt, relative to income, that is acceptable to the lender. 
 In a typical situation, a couple buying a $200,000 second home will have to put 25 percent, or $50,000, down, and pay 6 percent, or $12,000, in closing costs. A $150,000 mortgage, at 9 percent over 30 years, will require payments of $1,206.93 a month. Additional costs might be about $400 a month for taxes, insurance and utilities.
Though many buyers take out a second mortgage on their primary home in order to write the check for the down payment on a second home, no such shortcut exists for meeting their now double-mortgage debt-to-income ratio. Generally, lenders insist that buyers pay no more than 28 percent of their gross income in total mortgage payments.
"I don't know how they do it, the double mortgage is a double whammy," said Betty Tompkins, an artist who owns a loft in the SoHo section of Manhattan and a small home on eight acres north of the Poconos. "Some of these people are carrying $5,000 a month in housing costs. Then there is a car, tolls, gas, taxes. They add $10,000 a year to my expenses, and I have a zilcho mortgage."
Ms. Tompkins is one of the lucky ones. She bought her loft 18 years ago for $20,000. And instead of sinking her savings over that period into a larger New York residence, she bought a second home for $155,000. (She put 80 percent down.) "A lot of people in New York are renters and when they get $100,000 together, they buy something outside the city, especially if they are in a rent-controlled apartment," she said.
Many second-home owners also inherited their houses or bought them 10 or more years ago when prices were a fraction of even today's depressed levels. Others have saved long enough to be able to put a sizable amount of equity into the purchase.
And as for those two-home owners who are carrying two mortgages, they tend to have upper-end incomes or be free of child-rearing expenses or both.
For instance, three months ago, a single woman in her 40's, who asked to remain anonymous, paid $115,000 for a three-bedroom, fully furnished, saltbox house on a half-acre of wooded land in Shohola, Pa., in the Delaware Water Gap area. Her mortgage payments and taxes come to $800 a month; she made a 25 percent down payment.
SHE has a co-op loan that costs $1,000 a month to carry and pays $600 a month in maintenance for her 8-year-old unit, in the Kips Bay section of Manhattan. Her basic housing expenses are therefore $2,400 a month. Then there are utility bills, transportation costs and other items such as lawn mowing and the occasional repair bill. She expects one of $500 to $700 soon for a foundation repair. "Rain water is seeping in and creating a pool in the basement," she said.
How does she do it? She is a lawyer, earning between $90,000 and $100,000 a year. She has no children.
Perhaps that is also why her biggest caveat about buying a second home is not financial, notwithstanding advice to get mortgage pre-approval. "Watch out for bad roads in the winter," she said. "It was something I didn't even think about when I was house-hunting in the summer."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SECOND MORTGAGES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RENT CONTROL (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FUEL TAX (68%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK BETTY TOMPKINS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



603 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Recitals, Opera Light and Grand, Plus Superman

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHERMAN

 BODY:
NEXT weekend is shaping up as one of the busiest of the season, with more concert enticements than can be described. Among those of high promise though are two superstar recitals, light opera and a grand operatic doubleheader, more than half a dozen orchestral programs and Superman.
Flying in first is Superman since, at 8 P.M. on Wednesday, the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam is opening its 30th anniversary season with a revival of Charles Strouse and Lee Adams's "It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's Superman." Kay McClelland, from the Broadway hit "City of Angels," plays Lois Lane, with Gary Jackson starring as the Man of Steel whose X-ray vision can no doubt see all the way through to the end of the run in early July. For dates, times and reservations, call the box office at 873-8668. 
 On Thursday evening at 8, Itzhak Perlman brings his warmth and violin virtuosity to the Stamford Palace, playing Schubert, Shostakovich, Suk and Dvorak with the pianist Samuel Sanders. Nor does Palace let the stage cool down for long: the master saxophonist Branford Marsalis arrives for a jazz concert Friday at that same hour (323-2131).
Also at 8 P.M. on Friday you'll find jazz at the Chester Meeting House, as the Robbie Collomore Concert presents the tenor saxophonist Bob Kindred, the bassist Todd Coolman and the pianist Bill Charlap, the threesome performing as the "Kindred Spirits" (526-5506).
The Troupers Light Opera Company has selected Gilbert and Sullivan's "Gondoliers" for its spring production, with five performances lighting up the Rippowam Center in Stamford: Friday and Saturday evenings this week and next, plus a 2:30 matinee on May 1 (637-5845).
Another Friday option is the return of Connecticut Concert Opera to the Centennial Theatre in Simsbury. These days of recession wouldn't seem to be the ideal time to launch a new company but, reports its president, John Wadhams, "our debut performances (last January) were outstanding, the only seats left were in the back of the third balcony, and people came streaming out to the lobby absolutely beaming." Performances are at 8:15 P.M. on Friday and next Sunday afternoon at 3, with a double bill of Mozart's "Re Pastore" and Puccini's "Gianni Schicchi" featuring Peter Harvey, Yu Ping, Katherine Harris and other singers under the artistic direction of Toby Hall (236-0004).
Gunther Herbig leads the Yale Philharmonia in Schubert's "Great" C Major Symphony, No. 9, and with the graduate student Thomas Wiebe as soloist, Bloch's beautiful Cello Rhapsody "Schelomo"; the 8 P.M. Friday concert at Woolsey Hall also introduces a Yale conducting fellow, Arthur Post, who will take the podium for Haydn's "Surprise" Symphony (432-4158).
At that same hour, the New Haven Symphony previews its "Gershwin, By George" program at the Shelton High School before bringing it back home for an 8 P.M. Saturday outing at the New Haven Palace. Stanley de Rusha guests conducts on both occasions, the lineup including the Variations on "I Got Rhythm" and "Rhapsody in Blue," both with Elliot Finkel the solo pianist, a group of songs featuring the tenor Jerome Pruett, and such orchestral attractions as the Cuban Overture and the Lullaby for Strings (776-1444).
At Woolsey Hall, at 8 P.M. on Saturday, the Yale Symphony under James Ross plays Milhaud, Bartok and Prokofiev at its last concert of the school year (432-4150), while the season finales of the Ridgefield and Wallingford Symphonies occur at that same time, respectively, in the Ridgefield High School and the Paul Mellon Arts Center. Both of those concerts have a vocal component: in Ridgefield, the orchestra under Beatrice Brown welcomes the Connecticut Choral Society (and its director, Christopher Shay) for performances of Handel's Coronation Anthem "Zadok the Priest" and the Poulenc Gloria, the latter with the soprano Karen Van Posnak as soloist (438-3889). And the Wallingford concert begins as the actress Socorro Santiago narrates Poulenc's "Story of Babar" plus another delightful family piece, Benjamin Britten's "Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra," with the group's music director Philip Ventre conducting (284-5252). Each program then concludes with a popular orchestral favorite, Beethoven's "Pastoral" Symphony in Ridgefield, and in Wallingford the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto, with the orchestra's concertmaster, Nina Crothers, stepping to center stage as soloist.
The Greenwich Symphony is also giving one if its own players a chance in the spotlight: the multitalented Lowell Lacey, who plays in the viola section when he isn't otherwise occupied with whatever piano, celesta, harpsichord or organ parts appear in the symphonic repertoire. On this occasion, Mr. Lacey will be at the harpsichord for Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 5, the other major solos in the piece contributed by the group's concertmaster Dorothy Happel and its principal flutist Kim Haley. The group's music director, David Gilbert, has chosen Beethoven's "Consecration of the House" to begin the program; he'll end it with Nielsen's expansive Symphony No. 4, subtitled "The Inextinguishable." A program preview, with the associate conductor Patricia Handy, is scheduled at noon on Wednesday in Second Congregational Church; the 8:30 P.M. Saturday concert will be repeated at the High School the following afternoon at 4 (869-2664).
The seasonal farewell of the Stamford Symphony under Roger Nierenberg also provides a choice -- 8:30 P.M. Saturday or next Sunday afternoon at 3, both at the Palace Theater -- the program certainly covering a lot of stylistic ground, from Mozart's "Haffner" Symphony to Lukas Foss's "Salomon Rossi Suite," the latter itself a tribute across the centuries to the Italian violinist and composer who died around 1730. The featured Concerto is Rachmaninoff's Second, with the Philadelphia pianist Susan Starr as guest soloist (325-1407).
Finally, the Hartford Symphony may still be on strike but its Volunteer Association is going ahead with the orchestra's 18th annual Young Artists Competition. The finals, presented in concert form at the Watkinson School in West Hartford, begin at 3 next Sunday afternoon; no admission is charged (246-8742).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nina Crothers, the Wallingford Symphony concertmaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TROUPERS LIGHT OPERA CO (57%); RIDGEFIELD HIGH SCHOOL (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIDGEFIELD HIGH SCHOOL (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); THEATER (89%); OPERA (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA; SHERMAN, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



604 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Peekskill Single-Families;
A Hovnanian First in Westchester

 BODY:
Hovnanian Enterprises, of Red Bank, N.J., best known for its low-priced town houses and garden-style apartments for first-time buyers, will open its first community of detached one-family homes in Westchester County in June.
The company's president, Ara Hovnanian, said the development of the community, Forest View in Peekskill, N.Y., was spurred by consumer research and changing demographics. 
 "We are confident that these new home designs, located an hour's commute from Manhattan in the Westchester hills, will meet the needs of move-up buyers throughout the region who have waited until they could see the economy start to turn around," he said.
Modeled after several successful one-family-home projects in New Jersey, Forest View will consist of 169 three- and four-bedroom homes, ranging from about 1,900 to 2,500 square feet. The average outside dimension is 35 feet wide by 48 feet deep. Amenities include basements with ground-level entrances and oversize windows. Prices will be in the low $200,000's.
Mr. Hovnanian said most buyers are expected to come from the surrounding area and New York City. In a departure from its normal "preconstruction sale" practice, four model homes will be available for inspection.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of single-family house at Forest View in Peekskill, N.Y. (Hovnanian Enterprises)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PEEKSKILL (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); 

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



605 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Lost in Space;
Companies Finding That Getting Smaller Isn't Easy

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
THE Chemical Bank is working on a problem that would be the envy of most Manhattanites. It finds itself with too much, rather than too little, space.
Last December, it merged with the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company. And like hundreds of other companies that have consolidated or retrenched during the current recession, the 7.5 million square feet in 20 buildings that the two banks occupied in and around New York City offered far too much space for the combined entity. 
 It has therefore embarked upon a comprehensive analysis of its future space requirements to reduce overhead and redeploy departments for maximum efficiency.
"You get into a lot of issues when you do something like this," said Walter Wystkowski, its vice president of facilities planning management. "Which buildings should go. Which ones offer the best locations. How to minimize costs by making as many 'box' moves as possible."
Mr. Wystkowski defined a box move as one in which a department can be moved, in a block, into existing space without expensive renovations.
But these companies are not without help. As the recession persists, more of the major architectural and interior planning firms like Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, KPF Interior Architects and Fletcher Thompson -- firms that helped many of the same corporations expand in the 1980's -- now find themselves gaining skills in making them smaller.
Not surprisingly, they have found that cutting back tends to be painful. It forces companies to make unpopular decisions such as spending a sizable amount of upfront money at a time when profits may be flat or shrinking.
"There are contradictory pulls and pushes," said Peter S. Brooks, a principal with Austrian Roth & Partners, real estate consultants in New York City. Until the end of 1991 Mr. Brooks was a senior vice president at the Chemical Bank in charge of space requirements. "When you are expanding," he said, "the costs seem easier to swallow. In downsizing you find yourself resisting every expenditure."
Moreover, as the cutting back on space is usually carried out when the economy is weak it becomes harder to get out of existing leases or even find subtenants to cover the remaining term, said Randolph Gerner, president of KPF Interior Architects of Manhattan.
Thus a good program must also consider the cost savings that could be achieved by waiting until certain leases expire, especially if some new spaces will be needed for the consolidated enterprise; say, more floors in fewer buildings.
For even if subtenants can be found, it's rare for them to pay rent at the rate the corporation agreed upon when it first the signed the lease, Mr. Brooks said. What's worse, he added, the prime sites that can be re-rented most easily are often the ones the corporation is most anxious to keep.
The financial struggles may be further complicated, he said, because individual employees are likely to loose cherished perks like a private office with a window in the effort to cut costs.
"And many people measure their success in life by the size, shape and configuration of their offices," he noted.
BUT it can be done. Indeed many of the experts insist it's the ideal moment to be making fundamental changes that will benefit the company for years to come. "It's the best possible time to make a total re-evaluation," said John H. Winkler, the managing partner with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill of Manhattan, which is handling the consolidation for Chemical.
At Chemical, this re-evaluation is still in the earliest stages. Preliminary estimates call for a reduction in space of about 15 percent to 6.5 million square feet with a potential drop in employees from 45,000 to 38,800, some of whom have already left.
But those numbers could still change -- another difficulty that plagues the process. For planners must deal with fluctuating numbers at a time when nobody wants to be wasting money factoring in a "cushion." One solution offered by James A. Beaudin, vice president of Fletcher Thompson of Bridgeport, Conn., is to place those departments most likely to continue to contract next to the ones deemed most prone to expansion.
Certain spaces can usually be eliminated regardless, said Mr. Gerner of KPF. He maintains that square footage can often be lowered by 20 percent with only a 10 percent drop in employees. For instance, he notes that consolidation should immediately result in the need for fewer dining rooms, reception areas, conference rooms and even rest rooms.
It should become an opportunity, he said, to examine how much costly square footage is being wasted on filing needs. "We have made such strides in electronic storage," he said, "that many of those files could now be stored off-site," with the data available instead on disk.
Mr. Beaudin goes one step further. He favors what he calls "purge days" -- a designated day during the upheavals when dumpsters are brought to the site, employees turn up in their old clothes and everyone spends the day clearing out personal files. "You soon find out you don't need all those cabinets after all," he said.
OVERSIZED conference rooms tend to be another major space gobbler. Mr. Gerner maintained that too many large and lavish conference rooms were often added in the 1980's as something of a status symbol. Substantial space can be saved, he said, by creating smaller conference rooms. "Most of the time you're far more likely to need space for 10 rather than 25 people," he said.
Creating uniform corporate standards for office sizes and furnishings for each grade of employees (with rare exceptions) are even more important in contracting than during expansion, these experts say, as a sense of turf -- and thus seniority rights -- is at risk.
Though it may seem like excessive regimentation, they say morale is boosted when everyone at a certain level in a company knows in advance that equal treatment can be expected. Further, it helps the company save money because it enables the purchasing of a greater amount of office furniture in bulk.
Right now these planners note a trend toward smaller offices or even open-floor offices for middle managers as a key element in space cutting. And while it is never a welcome change it is the ideal time to break the news, these experts say, because those who remain may consider themselves fortunate to have kept their jobs. So they are less likely to complain.
Also helpful in contraction, they say, are updated designs that stress access to daylight for the maximum number of employees coupled with an emphasis on open-floor plans -- a feature that provides a greater illusion of space while consuming less square footage per person. This is in contrast to a decade ago when six-foot-high cubicles were all the rage, isolating too many people in what were essentially windowless boxes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Wystkowski, left, vice president of facilities planning management at Chemical Bank, and John H. Winkler of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. They are discussing reduction in the bank's office space. (Nancy Siesel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICES; CORPORATIONS REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (84%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



606 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Industry-Aid Bill Stirs Tax Battle

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
DEPENDING on where you sit, a bill that breezed through the State Senate on April 2 and the Assembly last week could cost residential taxpayers tens of millions of dollars, could save industrial taxpayers tens of millions of dollars -- or none of the above.
The sponsors of the bill, called the Business Retention Act, say it will keep business and industry from leaving the state by exempting equipment and machinery from local property taxes. They say the bill simply reiterates a previous law that has been diluted beyond recognition by a recent series of Tax Court decisions. 
 Gov. Jim Florio has said he is "generally supportive" of the bill but wants to examine some of the municipalities' concerns.
Opponents of the bill say it will produce a dramatic shift of the municipal tax burden from industry to residential and commercial taxpayers. In part, they say, this will happen because town assessors will lose the leverage, provided by the court decisions, that has enabled them to keep industrial taxpayers in line.
In a state hard hit by the recession, the debate comes as municipalities struggle to keep local property taxes affordable for residents, particularly those on fixed incomes, while state and local officials try to fan the fires of economic development and hold businesses -- and badly needed jobs -- in New Jersey.
"If we allow municipalities to tax equipment and personal property, we'll drive businesses right out of New Jersey," said State Senator Donald T. DiFrancesco, Republican of Westfield and sponsor of the bill. He said that the only community that had taken advantage of the court decisions was Bayonne, and that the bill would produce no major tax increase for homeowners in other towns.
But Jon R. Moran, a senior legislative analyst for the New Jersey State League of Municipalities in Trenton, said, "The bill is going to cause a shift in the tax burden from big business to the residential taxpayers." In a letter to legislators, the league said the cost to homeowners would be "tens of millions of dollars."
And some municipal officials fear that, once businesses are free of the threat of increased assessments, they will push for decreases.
"I'm sick over it," said James A. Sabetta, the Mayor of Paulsboro, in Gloucester County. "The taxpayers are going to be hit with a double whammy. We're going to be forced to spend 40 or 50 thousand dollars just to defend tax appeals." And, he added, the town might lose.
In New Jersey, municipal property taxes are calculated by applying the municipal tax rate to the assessed value of each piece of property. The assessment includes both the value of the land and the value of improvements on the land.
Residential property is typically assessed by using a "market value" approach; the assessment is simply the property's current market value. The market value of industrial and commercial properties, however, is more difficult to assess. The value of a piece of commercial property like an office building, for example, is often dependent upon the income that the property produces.
The market value of industrial property, on the other hand, depends more upon the use to which the property is put. A chemical plant, for instance, is worth more to a potential purchaser that manufactures chemicals than it is to one that manufactures automobiles.
For example, what makes a chemical plant different from an automobile manufacturing plant is not the building itself, but the equipment in it. Though such equipment is often considered personal property and therefore not subject to real-estate taxes, it is nevertheless a factor in determining the plant's value.
 
Ambiguity and Confusion
 That situation, experts say, has led to ambiguity and confusion when industrial property is assessed for taxing purposes.
Seth Davenport, a Montclair lawyer who specializes in property tax appeals, said the Legislature attempted to eliminate the confusion in 1986 by passing a law that exempted most equipment and machinery from local taxation. The regulations that resulted from that law allowed local assessors to tax only equipment that was "functionally essential" to the structure.
The State Tax Court, however, struck down that definition and said any equipment in a "special purpose facility" could be taxed at the local level. Determining what was a "special purpose facility" was left to the local tax assessor.
As a result, Mr. Davenport said, "if you built a widget factory, and machinery was necessary to make the widgets, then the machinery was taxable as real estate."
The Tax Court decision, he said, exposed nearly all machinery and equipment in industrial plants to municipal taxation -- a situation that could cost business and industry millions of dollars. And that, Mr. Davenport said, sent an ominous signal to businesses in the state -- a signal to which many businesses reacted.
 
100,000 Manufacturing Jobs Lost
 "In the last 28 months we've lost 100,000 manufacturing jobs," he said. "Eventually, New Jersey would become a rust belt."
Allowing municipalities to tax equipment and machinery might bolster the tax rolls in the short run, he said, but residents would suffer a substantial net loss after a few years. "When the plant that employs people in the town shuts down, where do those people go?" he said. "The residents lose their jobs and the town loses its ratables."
The Business Retention Act, Mr. Davenport said, will send a message to the business community that the state is serious about maintaining its industrial base and fostering economic development. And the effects of the law on municipalities, he said, should be minimal.
Joseph Politi, president of Market Value Appraisal Services, a Fair Lawn company that specializes in municipal assessments, agreed.
"It shouldn't have a major impact on most communities because most communities don't have those types of industrial properties," Mr. Politi said. And even the municipalities that do have such properties, he said, are not likely to be seriously affected because most assessors have not yet included equipment and machinery in their assessments.
 
'It's Not the Big Bugaboo'
 "It's not the big bugaboo that people are trying to make it out to be," Mr. Politi said.
But State Senator Raymond J. Zane, Democrat of Woodbury, said the bill would have a negative impact on nearly every municipality in the state.
"There's a spinoff effect," Mr. Zane said, referring to the fact that municipalities in a specific county share the cost of county government proportionately. If tax revenue in one municipality falls, then taxes in every other municipality in the same county must be increased to make up the difference.
Bayonne is the only community that has responded to the Tax Court rulings by including equipment and machinery in its assessment of industrial properties. Marvin J. Joss, the Bayonne tax assessor, said he was able to add about $80 million in industrial assessments to the tax rolls. Under the Business Retention Act, however, that $80 million will have to be taken off the assessment rolls, reducing the town's tax revenue by about $2.1 million.
That loss, Mr. Joss said, would have to be made up by the residential and commercial taxpayers. "It would translate into about $170 a year on the average house," he said.
 
League of Municipalities Blamed
 Senator DiFrancesco said the debate surrounding the Business Retention Act stemmed less from the bill itself than from the lobbying campaign led by the League of Municipalities.
"I've read their letters and they're deliberately misrepresenting the facts to their membership," Mr. DiFrancesco said. "On this issue, they're dead wrong."
Municipal officials, however, say that even if they have not actively assessed equipment and machinery, they have nevertheless capitalized on the ability to do so when industrial taxpayers have sought reductions in their assessments.
"It's used as a shield, not as a sword," said Lawrence Pollex, business administrator in Edison. Instead of going into a factory and assessing the equipment and machinery as real estate, he said, some municipal assessors instead used their right to do so as leverage to defend their assessments.
Mr. Davenport, the tax lawyer, said that even that practice was wrong and should be curtailed.
 
An 'Extortionistic Tool'
 "It's been used as an extortionistic tool to stop industry from getting a fair assessment on real estate," he said.
But some municipal officials say they need all the leverage they can get when they are up against big business in tax assessment appeals. And they fear that as soon as one business is successful in having its assessment substantially reduced, an avalanche of other appeals will follow.
Mr. Sabetta, the Mayor of Paulsboro, said the impact the bill could have on his community became immediately apparent when one of the borough's largest industries, the GATX Terminals Corporation, a Pennsylvania company, filed a tax appeal on March 31, this year's deadline.
GATX, Mr. Sabetta said, owns a terminal with a dock on the Delaware River that it bought two years ago for $9.7 million. The property is currently assessed at $8.4 million, more than a million less than the market value as established by GATX's own purchase price.
Now, Mr. Sabetta said, GATX has asked that the assessment be reduced by $7 million, to $1.4 million.
"They told us that the appeal was being filed in anticipation of changes in New Jersey law," Mr. Sabetta said, referring to the Business Retention Act. He said the tax assessor expected the law would cost the municipality $50 million to $60 million in lost ratables. That would result in residential property tax increases of about $250 on an average house.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; PROPERTY TAXES; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX COURTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); HOME PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RECESSION (67%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



607 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
No More Tears, Raise a Cheer for the Banks

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Is this the golden era of American banking?
Those who are laughing at that question may not have pondered the latest profit reports from America's banks. They show profit margins heading ever upward, with a diminishing number of bad loans. 
 The latest wonderful news from the banks reflects a confluence of events. The rates they charge on what few loans they are making have not come down nearly as far as the rates they pay for deposits. And many are making an extra buck by buying longer-term Treasuries, on which rates are substantially higher than the rates the banks pay their depositors.
 Consider Wachovia, a healthy Southern regional bank. Its latest report shows that its interest income -- the money it gets from bonds and borrowers -- was down 14 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. But its interest expense -- the amount it pays to depositors -- was down 30 percent. Over the same period, its outstanding loans were down 5 percent, but the amount of money it had invested in securities was up 16 percent.
Last week was the best week of '92 for the Dow Jones industrial average, which rose 111.13 points to a record 3,366.50, partly in response to the Fed's continued efforts to reduce interest rates. But only one major bank, Chemical, cut its prime lending rate. Most banks have little desire to make new loans, so why cut rates on existing loans?
The second part of the bank profit explosion is the rapid falloff in bad loans. There the picture is less clear. While most banks were reporting declines, there were bad reports from Security Pacific and Arizona's Valley National. Both banks are slated to be acquired, and each seems to be cleaning up its books in anticipation. Those decisions emphasize the discretion bankers have to decide whether to recognize bad loans or to defer making the decision, hoping something will turn up.
The strategies used to produce this year's profits may not work forever. When loan demand starts to rise, some banks may regret their decisions to cut savings rates so low that customers have fled to mutual funds, and may have to pay more for new deposits. Citicorp's move last week to cut credit card interest rates could spread and reduce profits. And the big risk, as always, is bad loans.
Still, while the bank regulators have more banks left to seize, it is possible to hope that those banks that manage to survive are entering an era of prosperity, in which competition is not very intense.
Eighteen months ago, investors suspected that every bank was hiding bad loans. Now they believe that the new reports show a genuine improvement that is likely to last. Since April 8, when stock prices bottomed just before the Fed pushed the Federal funds rate down for the most recent time, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 5.8 percent. But Chase Manhattan, First Chicago and BankAmerica are just three of the many banks whose stock gained at least twice that amount.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Leaps Above, 3,300," tracks Dow Jones average, April 10-17, 1992; "At Wachovia, Margins Are Up ...," tracks annualized net yield on interest-earning assets at Wachovia Corp., 1st qtr 1990-1st qtr 1992; "... At It Buys More Securities," tracks quaterly outstanding loans and investment securities at Wachovia, 1st qtr 1990-1st qtr 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (71%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



608 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: Cuba, Long Forbidden, Wins Major Attention Abroad

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
A growing number of American companies, lured by the prospect of approaching change in Cuba as the island tries to ward off economic collapse, are following their foreign counterparts in showing interest in the island.
Located at the United States' doorstep, endowed with resources ranging from strategic metals to rich croplands and pristine beaches, and inhabited by an industrious, well-educated population, Cuba is seen by many corporate executives and academics as a country in need of almost wholesale economic reconstruction but also as a land of potentially bright opportunity. 
 American corporations are barred from the island by a 29-year-old embargo and are wary of the sensitivities of a large and politically active Cuban-American population that has expressed hostility to any easing of relations with the Communist regime. Thus they have been forced to remain largely on the sidelines as companies from France, Britain, Canada, Spain and elsewhere seized upon opportunities opened up by recent reforms in the island's policies governing private investment. Yet foreign subsidiaries of United States companies have started to take advantage of a little-heralded 1975 amendment to the American embargo that allows them to trade nonstrategic goods with Cuba.
Cut off from its traditional lifeline to the defunct Soviet Union, Cuba is scurrying to replace subsidized supplies of everything from industrial spare parts and oil to flour for making bread. It is feeding the effort by setting up attractive new investment regulations that permit the repatriation of profits, majority foreign ownership in some instances and control over management decisions like hiring and firing that were once the sacrosanct domain of the Government.
Cuba, locked into a sterile brand of central planning for the last three decades, barely tips the scales in the economic life of Latin America and the Caribbean. It is a Communist oddity in an increasingly free-market world. "If Cuba were to somehow sink tomorrow and disappear from the map, it would hardly make a ripple in the hemisphere's economy," a World Bank official said recently. "It would just not be felt."
But many companies have begun to prospect the island's markets, convinced that Cuba's bid to survive will ultimately lead it to convert to a capitalist economy, even if it is not acknowledged in name. If the Government should suddenly pull back on its reforms, many say, economic collapse will follow, eventually leading to the same result.
"There is growing anticipation among my clients, rightly or wrongly, that a political change in Cuba will happen sooner rather than later," said Sally Shelton, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Caribbean affairs in the Carter Administration who now works as a Washington-based consultant for several multinationals. "The feeling is that Cuba cannot remain unchanged forever, and quite apart from politics, Castro's need for hard currency will drive him to liberalize further and make foreign investment even more attractive."
While the debate is played out among Cuban policy makers over how quickly to pursue reforms and how to prevent the budding liberalization from ending the Communist Party's vise-like grip on almost every aspect of Cuban life, foreign companies are grabbing up rights to a growing variety of business ventures.
Recent investments run from the Spanish hotel company Grupo Sol's conquest of undeveloped tourism sites that are the envy of the Caribbean to a contract with Canada's Sherritt Gordon to rehabilitate some of the world's richest nickel mines. Sherritt Gordon failed to return repeated telephone calls about the size of its contract, but it is believed to be worth about $1.2 billion.
In a bid to relieve a crushing energy shortage that has brought back horse-drawn carriages and oxen-powered plows, the French oil company Total-Compagnie Francaise des Petroles was recently awarded a six-year contract to explore and develop offshore fields, which though still unproven, are widely believed to hold important reserves.
Shell, British Petroleum, the Swedish firm Taurus Petroleum and the Brazilian company Braspetro, drawn by the same prospect, have become active in Cuban oil exploration.
Although American companies remain excluded from Cuba by the embargo, the have been tantalized by thesight of foreign firms reaching potentially lucrative deals just 90 miles off South Florida's shores. Yet few of them, largely out of fear of confrontations with Cuban-American groups opposed to trade with the Government, are willing to speak openly about their involvement.
"I think a lot of them are really frightened about the legal complications of angering Washington," said Christopher Barton, assistant director of the Center for National Security Law at the University of Virginia.
"I don't think we should lift the embargo, but people who say they do are always getting death threats," said one business consultant on Latin America who refused to be named.
Foreign subsidiaries of United States companies are active in everything from fertilizer and elevator parts to raw sugar and tobacco. Their commerce more than doubled between 1988 and 1990, according to a recently published Johns Hopkins University study of Cuban-American trade relations. In 1990, the last year for which complete data are available, that trade reached $705 million.
The growing list of parent companies whose subsidiaries are involved now reads like a Who's Who of the American corporate world, including such names as Dow Chemical, Du Pont, Ford, General Electric, I.B.M. and Union Carbide. Treasury Department documents indicate that the vast majority of these subsidiaries are registered in Switzerland, with England a distant second. One company, Otis Elevator, is rehabilitating equipment in old buildings and installing new elevators through its Mexican subsidiary.
"Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the potential for U.S. trade has increased dramatically, and we have seen that in the subsidiary trade," said Donna Rich-Kaplowitz, an author of the Hopkins study. "We believe that we could see between $1.2 billion and $2 billion in trade the first year after the embargo is lifted and some analysts think that figure could rise to $6 billion fairly quickly."
One indication of the mounting American interest in Cuba is that an 84-page booklet called "Developing Business Strategies for Cuba," published by the New York-based publishing and consulting firm, Business International, "sold as well as any research document we have put out on Latin America, including much larger countries like Mexico," said Santiago Fittipaldi, the company's assistant editor for Latin America.
Subscriptions for the London-based bi-monthly newsletter, Cuba Business, have increased so handsomely in the United States in the last year that the publisher, Gareth Jenkins, plans to introduce an American monthly edition next month.
In June, another British publication, Euromoney, will hold a two-day conference on Cuba for American companies in Cancun, Mexico. The conference includes a one-day excursion to Havana, made legal despite Treasury Department restrictions on Americans spending money in an "enemy" country, because all expenses for the side trip will be paid by the Cuban Government.
For all of these signs of burgeoning corporate interest, however, experts in Cuban affairs say there is little chance that the United States embargo will be lifted. While allowing American subsidiaries to trade with Cuba, the United States quietly, but actively, discourages even foreign-owned companies from providing strategic goods to Cuba or resuscitating vital industries.
Last year, diplomatic pressure of this kind was widely believed to have scotched a pact by the Brazilian airline, Vasp, to acquire a major share in the Cuban carrier Cubana, which is badly in need of investments to replace its antiquated Soviet fleet. Executives at Vasp have declined to provide details of why the deal was suddenly canceled.
The Castro Government's harshest foes in this country are seeking to get the Bush Administration to take an even harder line on Cuba in a bill that is now before Congress.
Opponents of further tightening of the embargo, both here and abroad, see Cuba as a Communist dead end, a country in which economic realities are already working inexorably to bring about a dramatic transformation.
But until that transformation comes, many American companies say, there is little that they can do but watch.
"Like any big company in the United States, we are keeping an eye on the situation there," said George Jamison, a spokesman for General Electric. "As soon as things change, we will be taking a hard look at the opportunities there."
 
 
 
AN ANTI-CASTRO CONGRESSMAN NAMED TORRICELLI
 Even as international business involvement in Cuba grows, offering what some say is perhaps the island's only chance for peaceful change, President Fidel Castro's most determined foes are moving in this country to hasten the collapse of the 64-year-old dictator's Government.
In the forefront of these efforts lately has been an unlikely champion of a hard-line approach, Representative Robert Torricelli, a 40-year-old New Jersey Democrat who identifies himself politically as a liberal.
Representative Torricelli is the principal author of legislation that would penalize foreign-based subsidiaries of American corporations for trade with Cuba and at the same time seek to discourage American allies from doing business with the island by banning ships that dock in Cuban harbors from this country's ports for six months.
"It has been one of Washington's fondest hopes to separate Castro from $4 billion in Soviet assistance each year," Mr. Torricelli said. "Now that that is being accomplished, the assistance is being replaced with the profits of American corporations and that is intolerable."
President Bush, who has enjoyed support from conservative Cuban-American groups which strongly endorse the proposed legislation, has nonetheless vetoed past attempts to ban subsidiary trade. In doing so, he has cited concerns about the principle of free trade and potential impact on trading partners.
Administration officials have expressed concern that other elements of the Torricelli bill, which may reach a vote next month, also would unnecessarily damage relations with important trading partners. Other critics of the bill say it is a dangerous example of overkill. "Cuba is in a desperate state and change is just around the corner," said Merilyn K. Potter, head of the Latin America section of the London Chamber of Commerce, which organizes frequent visits to the island for British businesses. "There is no need for heinous laws that will only encourage violent disorder."
Representative Torricelli said that the first time he had heard of Cuba he was "hiding my head under a desk in the sixth grade during the missile crisis" of 1962. He called it unlikely that Cuba could change peacefully, and said it was "hopelessly naive to believe that any amount of commerce with Cuba would lead to reform by a leader who is as recalcitrant as Castro."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Back in 1960, Castro supporters took over an Esso refinery. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Trading With Cuba," tracks total trade (imports and exports) by foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies, 1980-1990 (Source: Office of Foreign Asset Control, Department of the Treasury)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMBARGOES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); WHOLESALERS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); POLITICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TRENDS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CURRENCIES (66%); BEACHES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



609 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
The Competing Money Markets

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
Until recently, when interest rates approached their lowest point in two decades, it was hard to go wrong in investing money that might be needed soon. Now, with rates in the basement, variations among investments can loom large, and savers who do not want to tie up their money for a long time have poured $39.3 billion this year into money market funds.
Money market mutual funds -- diversified portfolios of Treasury bills and short-term securities issued by banks and corporations -- are offered by mutual fund companies and brokerage firms. Bank money market deposit accounts, sold by banks or savings and loan associations, were authorized by Congress in 1982 to allow them to compete with money funds. 
 Bank money market deposit accounts can yield up to three percentage points less than money market funds because bankers make different investments than fund managers. In general, the spread between the two tends to grow when interest rates are rising and to shrink when rates are falling. Last week, bank money market deposit accounts yielded 3.61 percent, according to Bank Rate Monitor in North Palm Beach, Fla., compared with 3.73 for money funds, according to IBC/ Donoghue's Money Fund Report.
With rates so close today, the main difference between the two types of investments is risk. Like all deposit accounts, bank money market deposit accounts are insured up to $100,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The accounts held $537.4 billion at the end of last year, according to Veribanc Inc., a bank-rating firm in Wakefield, Mass.
Money market funds offer no insurance, but because their holdings are diversified and short term, losses would be minimal even if a commercial paper issuer defaulted on paper held by a fund. Compared with bank money accounts, "there's more risk in funds, but not enough to worry about," said John Markese, president of the American Association of Individual Investors.
Then there is service. Most money market mutual funds offer checking, though many have monthly limits of 15 or 20 checks. By law, bank money account holders are limited to three checks a month, although unlimited withdrawals are allowed.
Some people may confuse bank money market deposit accounts with bank-related money market mutual funds. Many banks are now selling funds, as demand for loans slackens and premiums for F.D.I.C. insurance escalate. Because of pressure on their profitability, "many major banks have decided to move out of traditional bank instruments, turning to management of money funds, and mutual funds in general," said Gail J. Liberman, the editor of Bank Rate Monitor.
Banks have been marketing their money funds aggressively, and their efforts are succeeding. While money flowed out of money market mutual funds over all for most of last year, the bank money funds had net inflows totaling $11.8 billion in 1991. Still, banks managed only about $40 billion of assets at the end of 1991, compared with $413.1 billion in money market mutual funds, Lipper Analytical Services reported.
The money funds themselves are similar. The main difference is where you buy them. For amounts up to $10,000 or so, "if you're happy with the services of your local bank, use it," said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical. For larger amounts, small differences in yield can create significant differences in return, so "I'd look for which is a better investment in terms of return."
In terms of tax status, there are three distinct types of money market funds, and the critical measure is yield on an after-tax basis. Last week, all taxable money funds yielded 3.73 percent, according to Donoghue's Money Fund Report. The yields on tax-free money funds were 2.83 percent, and money funds that invest solely in United States Treasury securities were paying 3.72 percent. But the tax-free funds may actually yield more after taxes are paid, depending on your tax bracket and place of residence.
Tax-free money funds invest in municipal debt, and their earnings are free from Federal income taxes. To find the after-tax yield, divide the actual yield by one minus your tax rate. For investors in the 28 percent bracket, the taxable equivalent yield for tax-free funds is 3.93 percent (2.83 divided by [1-.28]). For those in the 31 percent bracket, the tax-free fund yields 4.10 percent after tax.
Then there are municipal funds, which can invest in "private purpose" issues whose earnings are subject to the alternative minimum tax, a flat tax intended to insure that wealthy taxpayers pay their fair share. For people who are not subject to the A.M.T., the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, for example, which was yielding 3.75 percent last week, effectively paid 5.21 percent for those in the 28 percent bracket.
Funds that invest solely in Treasury securities are super safe and produce earnings free of state taxes. To figure the taxable equivalent yield for the state where you live, use the formula given earlier, substituting your state tax rate for the Federal rate.
For example, Treasury-only funds yielded 3.72 percent last week on average. For New Yorkers in the highest state bracket, that translates into a 4.03 percent yield after state taxes are paid. New Jersey residents earn 4.00 percent; Connecticut residents slightly less, at 3.90 percent. Californians would pocket a 4.18 percent yield.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Different States," lists average 7-day compound yields for state-specific money market funds, plus after-tax yields for 28% and 31% tax brackets (Source: IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (97%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



610 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Alcohol, Still the Drug of Choice

SERIES: Second of two articles on substance abuse.

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
For most employees, these are familiar office characters: fellow workers who stumble to their desks on Monday, haggard from a weekend of relaxing-by-partying. Or a colleague who disappears regularly for long lunches and returns looking dazed and smelling of alcohol.
Despite all the attention paid in recent years to the abuse of controlled substances like cocaine and marijuana, alcohol -- friendly, familiar, legal old alcohol -- remains the drug of choice for most Americans. For most Americans, it is not a problem. Hazelden, the rehabilitation and educational program in Center City, Minn., estimates that some 80 percent of the population either abstains or uses alcohol moderately. 
 But there is that other 20 percent, and apparently the drive to rid the workplace of controlled substances has had the side effect of increasing awareness of the role alcohol plays in such workplace problems as absenteeism, tardiness and lost productivity.
The number of employee assistance programs "has gone up tremendously in the last few years," said Rudy Yandrick, a spokesman for the Employee Assistance Program Association in Arlington, Va. And having help just a touch-tone away is apparently a positive trend. "People appear to be coming in at an earlier stage of crisis," said Jeff Monroy, an E.A.P. administrator at Corning Inc. in Corning, N.Y.
But even in the best of all possible worlds, with programs in place and sympathetic administrators trained to recognize the symptoms of abuse, colleagues, not supervisors, are often the first people at work to feel the impact of alcohol abuse. They are often asked -- explicitly or implicitly -- to absorb the workload of an impaired employee, fudge work results or actually lie.
What tack should a long-suffering co-worker take? "It clearly depends on the situation," said Jack Longie, a substance-abuse consultant at the Control Data Corporation in Minneapolis. "If a steelworker calls and says 'Hey, I'm working with a guy up in the girders who's impaired,' it's obvious." But most situations, especially in the white-collar workplace, aren't as clear cut.
"I would encourage the employee to learn about the illness before doing something," said Mr. Longie. He said he might elicit more information, then advise the caller to have an informal talk with the co-worker, depending on their relationship at work. For example, he said, "We do not normally encourage people to approach higher-ups. It is too risky. Call human resources or their manager."
Mr. Longie and other experts in substance abuse acknowledge that raising the issue is difficult. "You're afraid to say the wrong thing," Mr. Longie said. One bit of advice some experts offer is counterintuitive: Don't begin by talking about alcohol.
"Be careful of jumping to a conclusion about what's going on with people," said Caryn Oftedahl, a manager in Hazelden's community prevention and professional education division. "In some situations, alcohol may be the cause, other times it could be a child-care problem or something else."
She suggests focusing on the "behaviors of concern" -- lateness, deterioration of skills, preoccupied behavior -- rather than "diagnosing" a problem. "It is much more comfortable for people to say something like, 'Hey, you've been late for work for three days,' " she said. "You're a co-worker, not a chemical dependency counselor."

IT is crucial to let the co-worker know others are affected by his or her behavior and to avoid sounding accusatory or judgmental.
"Try to make 'I' statements," Ms. Oftedahl said. " 'This is how it is affecting me; I care about what's going on. I care about my job and the quality of my job.' " A complaint should be specific, she said: " 'This is what I see happening: You're coming in late or showing up drunk.' "
Co-workers' responses are unpredictable. "They could say, 'Thank you for sharing that,' get angry, or turn around and walk away," Ms. Oftedahl said. She suggests making a commitment to help, but deciding in advance how far to go. "It depends on how much you're willing to do and how much you care about the person," she said. If the person is unresponsive, the next step might be to alert a supervisor or the employee assistance program.
Colleagues squeamish about the possibility of hurting a fellow employee may take courage from one well-established pattern: The last place alcohol affects is the job. "The employee is already dealing with it in family and elsewhere," Mr. Longie said. "Knowing that, it's easier to decide to do what you have to do now. He could lose his life."
 
 
 
GETTING OUT THE MESSAGE
 Substance-abuse specialists sometimes are accused of being professional party poopers, unable -- or unwilling -- to distinguish between an alcoholic and a person who knows when to say when, but likes to push the envelope a little. Caryn Oftedahl, of Hazelden, the rehab center, says people tell her, " 'You're so dry you're a fire hazard.' " She laughs but says she doesn't try to approach alcohol as a wet or dry issue.
The idea is to have people think about it before indulging in such traditions as the post-work carouse. "Well, everybody goes out after work on Friday," she said. "But is that healthy? Should we question it? Prevention hits on those social norms."
Those social norms, what some call the "culture of tolerance" of alcohol, are changing. "It is clear to me in this culture," said Jeff Monroy of Corning Inc., "that it's not O.K. to go out at noon and drink your lunch." Company policy, worked out with employee input, sends a clear message. "We aren't saying don't drink," Mr. Monroy said, "We're saying it's not appropriate to come to work impaired."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Longie, a substance-abuse consultant at Control Data in Minneapolis, with Deb Strickler, a counseler. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (82%); ARB (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (82%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (64%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (64%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (64%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CORNING INC (82%); ARBITRON INC (64%); CERIDIAN CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ALCOHOL; SURVEYS AND SERIES; COCAINE; MARIJUANA WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (76%); CANNABIS (76%); COCAINE (76%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (75%); TRENDS (73%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



611 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
Weighing a New Operating System? Call a Timeout

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
WINDOWS. OS/2. Windows. OS/2. The promotional cannons are firing salvos over the newest versions of these two personal computer operating systems, and shell-shocked customers are asking, "Which side do I choose?"
The best answer may be both, or neither. 
 Billions of dollars are at stake for businesses trying to plan their information systems for the coming years. Those costs include purchases of hardware, and massive expenditures on software, training, maintenance, system integration and troubleshooting.
The Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash., wants every personal computer to be operated through Windows, a graphical user interface that makes DOS computers easier to use. It introduced its latest version, Windows 3.1, on April 6. And Microsoft stocked the stores with so many copies that some rivals complained of a brief worldwide shortage of 3.5-inch diskettes.
If there were any extra diskettes around, they were probably gobbled up by the International Business Machines Corporation, which sent version 2.0 of its OS/2 operating system to the manufacturing plants at about the same time. I.B.M. wants every personal computer user to move to OS/2, a more powerful operating system than Windows or DOS that also makes computers easier to use. OS/2 version 2.0 should be reaching stores this week.
Both companies say they want to own America's business desktops. Suggestions that I.B.M. was resigned to playing a secondary role to Windows have brought a strenuous denial from Armonk, N.Y., where I.B.M. has its headquarters. Executives there vowed that OS/2 2.0 would be a "better Windows than Windows," eliminating the need for most people to buy Windows at all.
Next week, Windows 3.1 and OS/2 2.0 can be compared, side by side, feature by feature. For now, let's take up the question of whether the trouble and expense of moving to either one are worth it.
Both systems offer significant advantages over DOS, which is now 10 years old and was never meant to run on machines as powerful as today's desktops. But are the advantages significant enough to warrant the pain and cost of transition? Executives would be prudent to think things over, especially in these unsettled economic times.
The issue is simple enough for executives who already use Windows 3.0. The new version is simply better and there is minimal pain in upgrading. But trouble and expense aplenty await businesses that change from one operating system to another.
Most personal computers continue to hum along using DOS, producing useful output, and most of the machines could not move to Windows or OS/2 even if their owners wanted them to. Both new programs require more processing power, hard disk space and system memory than one would find in the typical office desktop computer today.
Of course, that will change as older machines die and are replaced by newer ones. But market researchers say the average configuration of a desktop PC these days is a 386SX microprocessor, with 2 megabytes of system memory, a color VGA monitor, and a 40-megabyte hard disk drive. Such a machine can be found next to the garden tractors and washing machines at a Sears store for about $1,500, regardless of how much a company paid a couple of years ago (probably about $3,000). Those machines barely able to run Windows effectively and cannot handle OS/2 at all.
To be sure, Microsoft recommends at least a 386SX microprocessor, 2 megabytes of extended system memory beyond the basic 640 kilobytes, a high-density diskette drive, 10 megabytes of open hard disk space, a color VGA graphics adapter and monitor, a mouse, and DOS 5.0. But many Windows users say 4 megabytes of system memory is a more realistic minimum.
OS/2 is even more demanding. Version 2.0 requires no less than 4 megabytes of system memory and 31 megabytes of open hard disk space, as well as a 386SX or higher processor. That's as it should be, since OS/2 is much more powerful, really a competitor for the NT operating system that Microsoft is promising later this year. Both OS/2 and NT are designed to run on so-called 32-bit microprocessors, like the Intel Corporation's 386 and 486 (and soon, 586) chips. Windows, in contrast, is designed to appeal to owners of older computers, even 16-bit 286 models.
OS/2's hard disk requirement can be pared to as "little" as 18 megabytes, by selectively installing OS/2 features -- OS/2 has a very nice checklist installation system. But the one-button installation process needs 31MB.
A production copy of OS/2 2.0 was tested in this office on a borrowed Compaq 486-33 with 8MB of system memory and a 40MB hard disk. (Granted, this is an odd configuration, sort of like a jet fighter with a 40-gallon fuel tank. If you need the power of a 486, you probably need a minimum of 100MB of storage.)
Even on this system, with its 8MB, OS/2 several times hit the ceiling as it tried to juggle several applications at once. In other words, the machine is brand new, and it is already time for an upgrade.
Adding memory chips is a relatively simple process, and by shopping diligently and doing one's own installation the cost can be kept to about $50 per megabyte. Adding a bigger hard disk is a bit trickier and will cost a few hundred dollars.
Or, one can simply buy new computers with maximum horsepower and features, a prospect that computer makers like I.B.M. must certainly relish.
Many businesses are adding high-powered personal computers but using them strategically as hubs for networks of PC's. This strategy is called client-server computing, in which desktop machines (clients) are linked to a brawnier hub machine (server). The server typically has a powerful processor and a large amount of information storage, which is shared by the clients. The desktop clients have their own processing power.
OS/2, being powerful and demanding, makes a great deal of sense for the server system. Windows, in turn, is better suited for the desktop client. Since OS/2 is compatible with Windows, some companies might consider OS/2 on the server and Windows on the client. That's why both systems might make sense for some companies.
For a company with more than a few PC's, the hardware costs for moving to Windows or OS/2 can be substantial; for corporations with hundreds or thousands of PC's, the cost is enormous. But the hardware costs are peanuts compared with the costs of software, labor, training, maintenance and support.
Any change of operating system requires a new investment in software, since the older programs will not take advantage of the new operating system features. In most cases, a simple software upgrade is required, which is less expensive than buying a new copy of the application. In other cases, as in moving to Windows from DOS, or to OS/2 from Windows or DOS, the user must buy new applications at a probable cost of several hundred dollars per copy.
Ouch.
Then too, new Windows users report that it takes weeks, even months, before they feel comfortable with the system and its commands. If an office has the luxury of a systems support staff, that staff can count on being busy with training classes and handholding for some time. Companies may experience a drop in productivity while their workers learn new ways to do their jobs. It is difficult to assess the costs of lost productivity, or added maintenance and support. But start with this: Is there enough flexibility in your own work day to absorb the hours, or days, it will take to learn new commands and applications?
Unless there is a compelling reason, sit back and enjoy the dueling ad campaigns , and wait a bit for the smoke to clear.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (95%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (52%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



612 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 36; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Stanford;
Students Elected To Seats on Council Hoping to Abolish It

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Taking anti-incumbency to an extreme, Stanford University students last week elected to their highest governing body, the four-member Council of Presidents, a slate of candidates who made only one campaign promise: to abolish the council.
The new council members, who call themselves the "I Prefer Not to Have a COP" slate, apparently benefited from a fake endorsement in The Stanford Daily, the campus newspaper. 
 The false endorsement, with the headline "COP? NOT," appeared in Monday's issue in place of an editorial endorsing another campus group, "Independents: A New Era."
The paper's editor in chief, Michael A. Laris, a senior from Pasadena, Calif., majoring in political science, said he wanted the culprits arrested. "It's not that The Daily can't take a joke, but I don't think people understand what kind of violation this is," Mr. Laris said. "A lot of people read The Daily really closely. This cuts into our credibility."
 
Call to the Printer
 Mr. Laris said he calls the printer, Fricke-Parks Press in Fremont, Calif., five nights a week to let the shift supervisor, Paul A. Fry, know when a courier has left with the issue.
Mr. Fry said that at about 5 A.M. Monday he received a call from someone identifying himself as Mike Laris. The caller told Mr. Fry he needed to change an editorial and asked him to hold the presses.
Mr. Fry said the printing company, which also prints The Daily Californian, the University of California at Berkeley's student newspaper, frequently fends off student pranksters. But he said the caller did a "reasonable enough job sounding like Mike." He stopped the press and waited for the changes.
When two young men arrived with the changes, Mr. Fry said, "We had our doubts for about a half a second.
"I happened to ask, 'Which one of you is Mike?' and they said he couldn't come, in such a way as to indicate that they resented the chore," he said.
"These two, they went to the method-acting school of political dirty tricks," he added.
The caller left Mr. Fry a phone number where he said he could be reached quickly. That number is the business phone of The Stanford Review, a politically conservative campus weekly. Detective Sgt. Richard C. Tipton of the Stanford police said The Review shares office space with several campus publications and the room is accessible to at least 100 students.
The Review's business manager, Christopher B. Grey, a sophomore psychology and economics major from La Jolla, Calif., denied that his staff had any part in the prank.
The perpetrators could be charged with false personage, which can be either a felony or a misdemeanor under California law, said Sergeant Tipton.
The four-member Council of Presidents serves in place of a traditional student body president. Each member receives a $4,000 annual stipend, an amount many students interviewed last week described as excessive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); POLITICS (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); FELONIES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); MISDEMEANORS (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL A LARIS (93%); PAUL A FRY (92%); RICHARD C TIPTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



613 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: The Rich Get Richer;
And What to Do About It

 BODY:
On all sides, rich Americans are under attack. Shareholders want revenge for huge compensation packages paid to corporate executives. Congress wants to squeeze higher taxes out of millionaires. The Democrat Bill Clinton incites voters with his favorite statistic: The richest 1 percent of families got 60 percent of the increase in average family income between 1977 and 1989. 
 The actual figure, 70 percent, is even more startling. Historically, income gaps between the rich and poor have stayed fairly constant from one generation to the next. But in the 1980's, all that changed dramatically.
 
The Fact
 According to the Congressional Budget Office, the richest 20 percent of families took more than 100 percent of the growth in average family income. How could that be? The bottom 40 percent of the population actually lost ground. Even after correction or adjustment, the C.B.O. figures keep showing the same thing: In the last 15 years, the rich have gotten a lot richer.
How did so few capture so much? Some people, like Governor Clinton, blame Republican callousness in the Reagan-Bush years, or Congressional subservience to special interests. But those explanations don't explain this massive inequality. It spurted in the 1970's, when Jimmy Carter was President. Meanwhile, similar trends showed up in Europe and Canada.
Others blame foreign competition and the shift of production from manufacturing -- with lots of high-paying blue-collar jobs -- to service industries. But this argument is contradicted by data showing that most of the growing income inequality occurred within individual manufacturing and service industries, even those immune from foreign competition.
Yes, during the 1980's the stock market tripled and inflation-adjusted interest rates hit unprecedented levels, all favoring the rich. But it is wages and salaries that account for over three-quarters of family income -- and for most of the growing difference between rich and poor.
Between 1939 and 1975, the wage gap between high- and low-skilled workers barely changed. During the the 1980's, however, the gap doubled. At the start of the decade, college graduates with a few years of work experience were earning about 30 percent more than high school graduates; 10 years later, the gap was 60 percent.
 
The Reason
 Economists are increasingly persuaded that this rising inequality cannot be explained by anything as simple as greed, politics or foreigners. They look to something more deeply ingrained in modern industrialized economies -- call it technology for short.
The days when high school dropouts could earn high wages in manufacturing are gone. Modern economies more than ever require educated, skilled labor. That explanation ought to jolt people out of traditional remedies.
For one thing, tinkering with tax rates to favor the poor won't accomplish much. Studies show that even if Congress were prepared to jack up tax rates on the rich greatly while cutting taxes for the poor, the impact on income inequality would be trivial.
 
The Remedy
 But Government need not watch helplessly as income differences widen; it can act to narrow them. Consider the example of Canada. It experienced similar inequality trends in the 1980's. But Canada beefed up its anti-poverty programs and kept the poverty rate flat. In the U.S., it rose.
The modern industrial economy is calling out for skilled, educated workers. Government knows how to answer that call; and thus knows how to counter the widening income gap. The right way for Congress to respond is to promote the education of sophisticated workers.
That means massive new commitments to Head Start, to primary and secondary education, to training high school dropouts and welfare mothers, to more higher education of different kinds, to workplace training.
Like other Democrats, Bill Clinton is not bashful about bashing the rich. But his program nonetheless resonates because it turns on just such investments in people. One need not be a Clinton partisan to recognize that it is in every American's interest to create a new economic reality, one in which the rest of the population gets richer, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FEDERAL AID (US) WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



614 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Playing It Safe;
The Paralysis of No-Pain Politics

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In politics, 1992 seems to be the year of the ostrich. Most politicians are hiding their heads in the sand rather than addressing fundamental problems facing the country. And the few who raise the central issues do so at their peril.
Americans in the past have often put off action on difficult political problems. But what is different nowadays is that basic questions are not just going unresolved, they are hardly being discussed. 
 President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, who is close to locking up the Democratic Presidential nomination, and even Ross Perot, the industrialist who is considering running for President as an independent, are ducking problems for which they cannot offer painless solutions. Congress is generally avoiding them too.
The one Presidential candidate who suggested that bitter medicine might be necessary, Paul E. Tsongas, fell by the wayside after the first month of primaries. Mr. Clinton savaged Mr. Tsongas in advertisements and speeches because the former Massachusetts Senator had advocated measures that would gradually raise the gasoline tax and reduce Social Security payments to the wealthiest. His stated goal was to restrain the vast consumption of fossil fuels and reduce the deficit.
 
Over Consuming
 Most politicians of both parties acknowledge that these are grave problems. Energy consumption per person in the United States is about double what it is in Europe and Japan. Almost half of the oil used in the United States is imported, up from just over one-quarter in 1985. Over-consumption is harming the environment, and the reliance on foreign oil is against the country's political, diplomatic and economic interests.
As for the budget deficit, at close to $400 billion this year, it is far and away the highest ever. The deficit will force the next generation to pay for today's profligacy.
But solutions to these problems would require some sacrifice from voters. Controlling energy usage would probably require that people change their driving habits and pay more for gasoline, which is now cheaper in the United States than bottled water.
Cutting the budget deficit would mean lower payments to the middle class or higher taxes, or both. About $700 billion, half the Federal budget, is now being spent on so-called entitlement programs that pay benefits to everyone who meets eligibility standards regardless of the total cost. Of this, only about one dollar in six goes to the poor. Most of the money is for Social Security, Medicare, farm supports and other payments that are awarded regardless of how well off the beneficiary is. But asking middle-class voters to relinquish some of their benefits seems to be out of the question.
Senator Warren B. Rudman, a New Hampshire Republican who has announced that he will not seek re-election because of his frustration over Congress's inability to confront the deficit, said such issues have lawmakers ducking, fearing opponents' exploitation.
"It has become increasingly easy," said Mr. Rudman in an interview, "to destroy a fine legislator with a series of very tightly drawn negative commercials."
Representative Leon E. Panetta, the California Democrat who heads the House budget panel, said the problem of avoiding difficult subjects had worsened over the years. "Twenty years ago, the public expected discussion of the tough issues," he said. "But the Ronald Reagan legacy was not to tell people about what sacrifices have to be made but always to deliver good news and stick to a simple, 30-second message."
Few politicians today would dare utter John F. Kennedy's line about asking not what your country can do for you. Seven senators and more than 45 representatives have announced they will not run for re-election this year, and many cite disillusionment with a political system that accomplishes so little of value. To be sure, some who spoke this way, like Senator Tim Wirth, a 52-year-old Colorado Democrat, faced such tough races in November that they might well have lost. Others, like Representative Vin Weber, a 39-year-old Republican from Minnesota, were embarrassed by large numbers of overdrafts on their House bank account.
But some departing lawmakers are giving up safe seats, and the anguish in their voices is unmistakable. Senator Rudman, 61, is a case in point. "The system, the Government, this country, have become fundamentally flawed," he said. "Presidents and Congresses, Democrats and Republicans, have been unwilling to explain to the American people that there is no such thing as a free lunch. I do not want to be a part of this any longer."
This country has a knack for skirting big issues. The historian James MacGregor Burns has observed that the necessary steps against slavery that were apparent in the 1840's and 1850's were finally taken at a devastating price in the 1860's. The social welfare measures of the New Deal probably should have been adopted in the 1900's. Involvement with allies in collective security came after World War II instead of after World War I.
But slavery, social welfare and collective security were matters of political debate long before they were acted on. In the campaign four years ago, the rising number of savings and loan failures, now recognized as the worst financial disaster since the Great Depression, was all but ignored by Mr. Bush, his opponent, Michael S. Dukakis, and those running for Congress.
Even today, politicians refuse to face up to the matter. Congress left for its two-week spring break without appropriating essential additional money for the savings and loan rescue. Lawmakers will have to allocate the money eventually, but they seemed to feel that if they put it off, they will not have to explain it to their constituents during the recess. The delay could increase the ultimate cost of the bailout by $200 million.
To take another example, economists and political scientists almost without exception believe that the country allocates too great a share of resources to the old and too little to the young. About one child in five in the United States is growing up in poverty; it is about one in 10 for the elderly. But the Federal Government spends about 10 times as much for each person over 65 as it does for each person under 18. The Republican staff of the House Budget Committee has calculated that after inflation, Federal expenditures on children -- for education, health care and other programs -- fell by 4 percent from 1978 to 1987, as spending on the elderly, mostly for Social Security and Medicare, rose by 52 percent.
Much of the public money spent on children comes from state and local governments -- for public schools, for instance. But social policy experts say this does not make up for the disparity in Federal expenditures.
Politicians may agree that a change is needed. But nothing happens. Old people vote and children do not.
Presumably, the time will someday be ripe to deal with issues like the deficit, energy and the needs of children, but based on the election campaign so far, that time is not at hand. "Short of a crisis," said Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, "it's hard for people to look at immediate, certain pain and accept that for uncertain gains in the future."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (73%); GASOLINE (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); FUEL TAX (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); BOTTLED WATER (66%); MEDICARE (65%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, H ROSS; TSONGAS, PAUL E BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



615 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Union Movement Loses Another Big One

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A prominent economist described the future of the labor movement this way: "American trade unionism is slowly being limited in influence by changes which destroy the basis on which it is erected.
"The changes, occupational and technological, which checked the advance of unionism in the last decade appear likely to continue in the same direction." 
 The assessment seems apt for labor today, a movement whipsawed by foreign competition, prolonged recession and emboldened companies like Caterpillar Inc., which last week ended a five-month strike on its own terms. But the remarks were made 60 years ago in a speech by George Barnett, the president of the American Economics Association. It was during the Great Depression, a conservative Republican Administration was in power, and the courts were antagonistic to unions.
 
Too Weak for All
 Fortunately for labor, Mr. Barnett turned out to be dead wrong. Or perhaps more accurately, he turned out to be way ahead of his time. For in the intervening years the labor movement peaked, and has now declined to the point where some experts think its weakness is a danger not only to itself but to the economy and the very industries that have triumphed over it. Three years after Barnett's 1932 speech, Congress passed the landmark Wagner Act, which gave the New Deal's benediction to union organizing drives. This spurred labor to historic victories, including the United Auto Workers' daring 1937 sitdown strike in Flint, Mich., which helped force mighty General Motors to recognize the then-puny union.
It was a time when unions were hailed as the friend of the working man, pushing for decent wages and Social Security. Membership soared from 3 million in 1932 to 10 million in 1942, and 16 million in 1952. After World War II, labor's bargaining power helped build the world's wealthiest working class, as factories churned to satisfy deferred consumerist dreams. The world has changed hugely since, especially for the labor movement. With 16.6 million members, unions have about as many members as four decades ago; if George Barnett's pessimistic prognosis were made today, it could be correct.
The labor movement is coming off what might have been its worst decade. In 1981 President Reagan broke the air-controllers union and helped create an environment in which union-busting became a common tactic for management. Some of the most powerful unions were squeezed by new forces including foreign competition and deregulation. Many unions had become a victim of their own success -- the fat wages they won made their industries easy prey for foreign competitors. As a result, employment in unionized industries plummeted.
Union membership has fallen by more than 3 million since 1980, and just 16 percent of American workers belong to unions. That is down from 23 percent in 1980 and almost 35 percent in the 1950's.
But just when it appeared that labor's fortunes had bottomed out, the Caterpillar strike erupted in Peoria, Ill., pitting the U.A.W. against the world's largest producer of earth-moving machinery. For five months, workers resisted Caterpillar's offer of a two-tier wage system and a less generous health plan, among other things. The strike's significance rose to a new level two weeks ago when Caterpillar said it would begin hiring permanent replacement workers. With unemployment high, that was a terrifying threat for the 12,000 strikers.
 
'Cat' with Attitude
 So on Tuesday the U.A.W. swallowed its pride and told the strikers to return to work under the terms offered by Caterpillar, while the union continues to negotiate. All in all, the strike was one of the biggest developments in labor since the air controllers walked out in 1981. Caterpillar, a symbol of industry, had quit cooperating with labor and favored a take-no-prisoners confrontation. "Cat was looking around and saying, 'There isn't a strong labor movement elsewhere in the country, so why do we have to put up with one?' " said Thomas Geoghegan, a Chicago-based labor lawyer.
Some labor experts argue that the weakening of labor is helping drag down the American economy. These analysts say labor's losses are helping turn America into a low-wage, low-skill economy. Strong unions, they say, create a durable relationship between employer and employee, in which the company treats its workers as long-term assets that need to be trained and cherished. When unions are weak, they argue, many companies treat workers as expendable commodities.
"In responding to the competitive challenges we face, we must ask, 'Do we respond by trying to become competitive with the Mexican economy and pay low wages or do we follow the route of Germany and Japan?' " said Harold Stack, a labor expert at Wayne State University in Detroit. "We seem to favor the low-wage, low-skill approach of Mexico, rather than the high-wage, high-skill approach of Germany and Japan."
Friends of labor argue that the atrophying of unions is one factor behind what they call the shrinking of the middle class. If unions were more powerful and could demand higher wages, they say, this would spur consumer demand and drive the economy forward.
But many conservative economists say that if unions win higher wages without increasing productivity, that will make for a poorer, not richer America. They say one reason so many steel and auto plants have been closed and so many jobs lost is that unions won hefty wage gains far outstripping productivity gains called for.
Some people are wondering whether the marginalization of labor portends a return to America's roots. In this view, the boom of labor for the four decades after 1935 may prove to be a brief parenthesis in the history of the land of hard-scrabble entrepreneurs."
In this view, the future holds only more trouble for unions. Many of he trends that have hurt unions -- the surge of foreign competition, the mushrooming of services, and the rise of small, agile firms like those in Silicon Valley -- are expected to continue. In addition, managements have become far more sophisticated in providing benefit packages so that workers conclude they can get what they need without unions. But many union officials are confident that labor will come back.
"We will see a more mature workforce that holds steady long term jobs." said Rudy Oswald, chief economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "These people will be looking more and more toward unions to achieve what they need at the workplace."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Union members signing a list of those attempting to return to work at a Caterpillar plant in East Peoria, Ill., after the five-month strike ended. (David Zalaznik/Peoria Journal Star) (pg. 1); A labor milestone: U.A.W.'s daring 1937 sitdown strike in Michigan helped force General Motors to recognize the union. (Associated Press) (pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (72%); CATR (PAR) (72%); CAT (SWX) (72%); CAT (NYSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (74%); PEORIA, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) CATERPILLAR INC (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (74%); PEORIA, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT; STRIKES; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STRIKES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (59%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RONALD REAGAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



616 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK REGION;
Jersey Looks for Money To Restore the Shore

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
The storms that raked New Jersey's shores in October and January did more than damage sea walls, homes and businesses. They laid bare the state's lack of commitment to the protection of its greatest natural resource -- its oceanfront.
After the storms left more than $100 million in damage, local officials, businessmen and property owners discovered that New Jersey hadn't a penny earmarked for protecting the 127-mile shore. Over the years the Legislature has fought over who should pay for the sea walls, jetties and sand replacement, without resolution. The issue pits developers, shore business owners and homeowners against environmentalists, and shore legislators against those from other parts of the state. An important aspect of the debate is the impact on tourism, New Jersey's second largest industry, generating $15 billion in economic activity annually. 
 "We had been going from budget to budget, storm to storm without great effort," said Scott A. Weiner, the state's commissioner of Environmental Protection and Energy. "We now recognize what a fragile resource our beachfront is, and if we don't protect it, we are going to lose it."
In recent years New Jersey has seen a building boom along the coast, despite state attempts to contain it. The development has complicated efforts to control the ocean's impact on the coastline, something environmentalists argue will prove futile in the long term and increasingly expensive in the short term.
"What we're talking about is not shore protection but real-estate protection," said D. W. Bennett, executive director of the American Littoral Society, a national environmental group based in the state. "People think we have narrow beaches because of erosion, but the beaches are narrow because we've built too close to the ocean." Shorefront businesses and homeowners should contribute the lion's share to any shore protection fund, argue Mr. Bennett and other environmentalists, since they are the chief beneficiaries and, in many cases, deny the public access to the beaches in front of their properties.
Several years ago the state enacted a law requiring developers to obtain permission from the Environmental Protection Department before building along the coast in order to prevent overdevelopment and overloading sewage treatment systems. A loophole in the law, however, allowed projects with 24 units or less without state approval. As these projects began appearing side by side, especially in Sea Bright, Gov. Thomas K. Kean ordered a moratorium on further building. Later, When the Legislature failed to close the loophole, the courts dissolved the order.
The last state budget to include money for shore protection was adopted in 1988, and it appropriated a modest $12 million. That money is long gone, as are the proceeds of a $50 million bond issue approved by voters in 1983. Gov. Jim Florio found $3.2 million in a general emergency fund after the October storm to strengthen seawalls and bulkheads and repair dunes and beaches in nine areas, including Sea Bright and Spring Lake, that appear to be in the greatest danger of severe damage from subsequent storms.
The Army Corps of Engineers has finally begun pumping sand onto Monmouth County beaches as part of a project that Congress initially approved in the 1950's. The chief stumbling block, Federal officials have said, has been the state's reluctance to share the cost, about 35 percent of the more than $250 million that is expected to be spent over the next decade or so. The first phase of sand replacement off Sea Bright and Monmouth Beach is to cost $63.5 million, with the state's share $16.6 million and local governments' $5.5 million.
To maintain a 100-foot beach, the corps must build a 140-foot beach, since the engineers estimate that 40 feet of sand will erode every six years on average and require additional replenishment. A broader "feeder beach" will also be built up along the north side of the Manasquan inlet so tides pick up sand and deposit it along the beachfront. Some ideas for stable, recurring funding include adding five cents to the tolls at the exits on the Garden State Parkway near the shore and some combination of special assessments on shore homeowners and businesses and appropriations from general taxes.
In February Governor Florio convened a "shore summit" that brought many groups, including business owners, environmentalists, scientists, planners, fishermen, real estate brokers and elected officials, into the same room for the first time. Mr. Florio told the gathering: "We can't afford to stick our heads in the sand anymore, because pretty soon there won't be any sand." The conference produced a number of reports on beach access, water quality, land use planning, tourism and economic development, shore protection strategies and funding.
Efforts to get the public involved have started in the Legislature and through the efforts of the Jersey Shore Partnership, a new organization that includes officials from the four shore counties and representatives of 32 businesses and four colleges and universities. The partnership will hold a public hearing Wednesday in Toms River.
Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos, Republican of Middletown, has already asked for a $15 million appropriation for shore protection in the 1992-93 state budget and, despite predictions of a budget gap of more than $1 billion, he has won the support of Governor Florio and the Republican leadership of the appropriations committee.
"This a problem for all New Jerseyans, " Mr. Kyrillos said. "Protecting the shore is not just good sense because it supports our economy and provides recreation and pleasure; the shore is part of our culture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Charles Rooney Jr. of Sea Bright, N.J., inspecting storm damage in January. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NEG (AMEX) (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; COAST EROSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); BEACHES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BONDS (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BOND ISSUES (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; KYRILLOS, JOSEPH M (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



617 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW YORK REGION;
Dedicated Taxes: Good Policy or Bad Planning?

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Not so long ago, New York City officials promoted their plan for a property tax increase by arguing that the cost for a typical homeowner would equal the price of a movie and ice cream for four. These days, they skip the soft soap and just promise in writing to hire more police.
Facing voters tired of record tax increases and grappling with growing civic needs, New York's leaders, like others around the nation, have moved increasingly to earmark new taxes or fees for particular programs, on the theory that people will be more willing to pay if their money is dedicated to programs they want or need. 
 In the last year, the city has won higher taxes on property and personal income to expand the Police Department. Now ideas are afoot for new tolls or taxes on cars or gasoline to finance bridge repairs, and new fees on householders to bear the cost of garbage collection. The City Council leadership wants to reserve a portion of residential property taxes, which it has strived for years to keep low, to support education. One visitor to Mayor David N. Dinkins's open house at City Hall last summer even suggested a new $5 tax to pay for planting trees.
Governments have long set aside some general tax revenues for special requirements, like paying off bonds, or raised special taxes to pay for related general needs, like using gas taxes to finance highway maintenance. But now, experts say, they are more likely to siphon off broad taxing powers to pay for programs not intrinsically linked to the tax, like earmarking personal income tax receipts for police.
"As confidence in the public sector has diminished, while the desire of political figures to please particular constituencies has not, one way of doing something new is this concept of the dedicated revenue source from some external element in society for the benefit of some targeted program," said Dave Kehler of the Public Affairs Research Institute of New Jersey, a non-partisan consulting group in Princeton.
Not all such taxes are popular, of course, and imposing tolls on the free East River bridges is still viewed as such a sacrilege that only the bravest whisper the idea.
And so far, the proportion of dedicated taxes has remained relatively low in New York City, with only about 16 percent of the overall yield from two dozen local taxes earmarked for specific uses, and with most of that going to the traditional purpose: paying off long-term bonds. In California, nearly 40 percent of the state's entire budget is now dedicated to specific uses, through a combination of ballot propositions and legislation.
 
Funding the Basics
 But some worry that what seems like the easiest way to win taxes may become the only way. If the trend continues, there could well come a time when specific taxes or fees in New York would finance what were once considered the most basic municipal services -- police, sanitation, schools, street maintenance and water supply and sewers. That would leave general taxes supporting mostly social programs that many voters find less appealing and might balk at backing.
"Most services that government produces do not have the unique quality of being consumed only by the person who pays for them," said Carol O'Cleireacain, the city's Finance Commissioner. "Instead, they have the nature of what economists call a public good, like the notion that you benefit from having an educated citizenry whether your children are in public school or not. There are all kinds of things that only government can provide, and you need the most broadly based taxes to support them."
In fact, the move toward dedicated taxes and user fees has come partly because state and Federal laws and court decisions have already compelled the city to provide such specific levels of service for everything from prison inmates to homeless families that it must simply find a way to pay for them, whatever else it puts off. Sometimes, the cost is shared by the state or Federal government, so cutting such programs is not cost effective.
But precisely because New York's spending options are already so limited, some experts warn against limiting its revenue choices. "You want to give yourself some wiggle room," Ms. O'Cleireacain said. By the most conservative estimate, only about 40 percent of the city's $29 billion budget is under its direct control, after it pays the local share of welfare and Medicaid costs, pensions for retired workers and interest on bonds, and after it discounts state and Federal aid over which it has little control.
Moreover, while taxes or fees are often earmarked in the name of democracy, they are sometimes raised and spent by public authorities or appointed boards that are less susceptible to political pressure.
Wearing their policy hats, city officials bemoan dedicated taxes. But wearing their political hats, they support them, especially after anger at two years of local tax increases totaling more than $1.5 billion led Mr. Dinkins and the Council to promise a four-year freeze in property tax rates starting in July 1992.
"In a perfect budgeting world, dedicated taxes cause loads of problems, because they don't provide for the normal resource allocation decisions to be made on everything," said the Council's finance director, Marc V. Shaw, who has dreamed up several of them. "But the reality is that budgeting is not done in a perfect world."
Instead, Mr. Shaw said, politics plays a part and is supposed to, and just now politics dictates winning the confidence of the public by promises that taxes will be spent in certain ways. However, he argues that if taxes are won by pledging to spend them on certain goals, the public might be persuaded to free up the money for other purposes if it were convinced that officials had met the original goals effectively or if the goals needed to be changed. But Mr. Kehler said dedicated taxes "perniciously tend to freeze particular programs at particular levels, even if priorities may switch."
Mr. Dinkins himself is already facing that tension, locked into higher and higher spending for the police, even as reported crime has begun to decline. The worst case is a kind of government by auto-pilot.
"If you have very little control over your spending, and very little control over your revenue, then it doesn't matter who you elect," Ms. O'Cleireacain said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some New York City taxes are earmarked to pay for police. At left, a new class of officers at graduation last year. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
 
Chart
 
Money With Labels
 
New York City taxes totalled $16.8 billion in fiscal year 1992. Sixteen percent of the total, or $2.7 billion, is dedicated to specific uses:
 
* 26 % of property taxes are reserved for debt service on city bonds: $2.0 billion
 
* 2.0 % of property taxes are reserved for criminal justice: $130 million

* 27.0 % of sales taxes are reserved for M.A.C. bond debt service: $540 million

* 4.0 % of hotel taxes are reserved for tourism and conventions: $3.5 million

 
Other dedicated funds include:
 
* All water and sewer fees, $761 million is reserved for water and sewer bonds

* All money estimated to be gained from the new city lottery game, $5 million, is reserved for criminal justice

* Beginning in fiscal year '93, which starts July 1, $110 million for criminal justice is reserved from the personal income tax
 
More dedication
 With the city's programs and resources already stretched thin, plans to improve even the most basic government services frequently specify both how the money would be raised and exactly what it could be used for. Here are some of the plans being advanced by the Dinkins adminstration and the City Council:
 
Bridge maintenance
 
* Nickel a gallon increase in gas taxes: $55 million a year
 
* One percent tax on the value of automobiles: $60 million a year
 
* Putting tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges: $685 million a year
* Measuring and taxing auto emmissions: $110 million a year
 
Education
 
* Dedicating real estate taxes from residential property to finance education that could raise $3 billion a year
 
Garbage collection
 
* Fees for residential garbabge pickup: undetermined amount
 
* Reserving the 5-cent bottle deposit on bottles redeemed in the city to finance the city's recycling program: $60 million a year.
 
(Sources: New York City Finance Department; New York City Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (53%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (53%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); CITIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); MAYORS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); BONDS (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



618 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The Labor Party Tries To Imagine a Future

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Nearly 60 percent of the voters in Britain's general election 10 days ago did not choose Prime Minister John Major's Conservative Party, but still it won a 21-seat majority in the House of Commons, the Conservatives' fourth victory since 1979. If the opposition Labor Party couldn't win in the worst recession since the 1930's, many of its supporters are now asking, when could it ever win?
As the party began its painful reappraisal last week, its leader, Neil Kinnock, announced that he would resign to make way for a successor to be elected July 18. But the leadership question is not the most fundamental one. Neither is the issue of whether the British electoral system is fair to smaller parties like the opposition Liberal Democrats. The winner-take-all system gave them only the 20 seats in the House of Commons in the constituencies where they had come in first, 3 percent of the total, although nationwide they had won nearly 18 percent of the vote. The broader question is whether there is a future for the traditional left at all, in a society transformed more than anyone realized by a decade of Thatcherism. 
 It is only slight exaggeration to say that politics, like everything else in Britain, was largely a matter of class before Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister in 1979. Conservatives and their supporters largely came from the privileged, propertied classes, and those who doffed their hats to them. Labor drew its support from the working, unionized classes that viewed themselves as adversaries of privilege, and of the privileged. You were born into one or the other, and for the most part you stayed where you were, your life long.
Thatcherism radically challenged these assumptions and speeded post-industrial economic change that reduced the role of heavy industry and labor unions in Britain's economy. It also challenged the notion that government was the most efficient means of looking after people left behind in the competition. Mrs. Thatcher's governments began selling public housing to those who lived in it, encouraging people who wanted to to use private doctors rather than the National Health Service, and privatizing publicly held industries by selling shares to the public.
Go for it, Thatcherism told the British; you have only yourselves to blame if you fail. It was strong medicine, but by the end of the 1970's, Britain had become the sick man of Europe, and it was ready to swallow. The British economy boomed in the late 1980's, but then Mrs. Thatcher went too far and forced through an unpopular "poll tax" for local government services, insisting that rich and poor pay the same amount in every community.
By 1990, a reaction had set in. Mrs. Thatcher was thrown out by her party, and her successor, John Major, began reducing the dosage. Labor had veered far left in the early 1980's, but Mr. Kinnock had brought it back, and this year he offered middle-of-the-road policies that looked, superficially, much like Mr. Major's kinder, gentler version of Thatcherism.
But there was a difference.
Labor would have used taxation to push the pendulum back the other way and effect a modest redistribution of national income from rich to poor. The definition of "rich" began at 21,000 -- $36,500 -- a year. For the 80 percent or so of people who made less, government would administer the benefits, through investment of new tax money in the health service, roads, railways and other public services.
As it turned out, only 34.2 percent of those who voted wanted to return to this traditional approach. According to one post-election survey by Gallup, only 44 percent of manual workers and their families voted Labor, perhaps because many are increasingly nonunionized and inclined to hope that they, too, can make 21,000 some day.
So, many believe that Labor's crisis will not be resolved merely by a change of leader, or a closer alignment with the Liberal Democrats, who aim not to put Labor in power but to put it out of business. Three men are running so far for the leadership.
John Smith, a 53-year-old Scottish lawyer and former Trade Minister, was groping last week for a better way for Labor to persuade the voters that compassion is not a zero-sum game. "We've got to persuade people who are prosperous, and who rightly want to remain so, that a poor standard of living for others is not necessary for them to enjoy a good standard," he said.
 
A New Agenda?
 Bryan Gould, a 53-year-old New Zealand native who is a former diplomat and television broadcaster, proposes what he calls a more radical agenda, one that would expand employee stock ownership plans and encourage greater economic growth as a better source of increased government income than higher taxes. A skeptic about the European Community, he would also devalue the pound against other European currencies so that Britain could lower interest rates -- the prime rate here is now about 10.5 percent -- that have dampened the economy since the late 1980's.
Ken Livingstone, a leftist Labor legislator who rejects Mr. Kinnock's brand of pragmatism, said last week that he would run for the leadership on a platform of devaluation, unilateral nuclear disarmament and big defense cuts.
Others on the left, particularly in the Charter 88 movement for constitutional reform, argue that Labor needs a whole new agenda. This would embrace causes like greater autonomy for Scotland, Wales and other British regions and communities that the Conservatives, for all their talk of individual freedom, have governed more tightly from London than ever before.
Britain is one of the most centralized states in Europe, they argue, with no written constitution or bill of rights to guarantee protection against the abuse of government power. A new politics focused on issues like citizens' rights, the environment and Britain's future role in Europe is needed, they say, and the left should provide it.
But the debate is only beginning, and the answers seem a long way off. Until they become clearer, the Conservatives look set to be the "natural party of government" for quite a while yet.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neil Kinnock resigning last week. (Agence France-Presse); John Smith announcing last week that he wants to lead Britian's Labor Party. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICES INC (52%); LABOR PARTY (55%); CONSERVATIVE PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR PARTY (55%); CONSERVATIVE PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRIVATIZATION (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R NEIL GORDON KINNOCK (57%); MARGARET THATCHER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



619 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The U.S. Takes a Serious Look at Ukraine

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
While attention was focused last week on President Boris N. Yeltsin's agreement with conservative legislators in Moscow over Western terms for aid to Russia, an equally important development was quietly unfolding in Kiev. A high-level American team was laying the foundations of the first American foreign policy toward Ukraine. After months of dealing with Ukraine as an afterthought to relations with Russia, the Bush Administration has concluded that it must have a Ukraine policy, as unique and tailored as policies toward France, Poland or Germany.
The mission to Kiev, led by Under Secretary of Defense Paul D. Wolfowitz, was prompted by an acknowledgement by American officials that the way they had been handling Ukraine was not working. Washington had tended to deal with Ukraine primarily as an aspect of arms control problems between America and Russia. Establishment of diplomatic relations with Ukraine was made conditional on President Leonid M. Kravchuk's agreeing to transfer all of the nuclear weapons on his territory to Russia and maintaining a "responsible security policy" that would not aggravate relations with Moscow or anyone else.
 
An Interest in Stability
 To be sure, the United States has an overwhelming interest in focusing on Russia, since without stability and economic development there the whole Eurasian landmass would be shaky. Moreover, collecting all former Soviet nuclear weapons under the single control of Moscow makes some sense in security terms. Roman Szporluk, a professor of Ukrainian history at Harvard, said: "Empires like to deal with empires -- there is something neat about it. But to treat Ukraine as though it still belonged to the sphere of Russia was a mistake." 
Initially, Mr. Kravchuk, eager for ties with Washington, played along with all of its demands. But as the Ukrainians began to feel that Washington was not paying enough attention to them as an independent people, they began making noises about delaying the transfer of nuclear weapons back to Russia. Then, last month, American officials say, Ukraine began to tell them that Mr. Yeltsin and his reformists were eventually going to fail and be replaced by traditional hard-line types in Russia. Therefore, the Ukrainians questioned the wisdom of turning over weapons to their long-time Russian rivals and overlords. So half-way through the missile transfers, they slammed on the brakes.
"The Ukrainians started complaining that all there was to their relationship with us was whether they would agree to return their nukes to Russia," an American official said. "They said: 'What about Ukraine?' We decided that the only way we were going to get what we wanted on the big issues was by dealing with the Ukraine in terms of its own concerns."
In Kiev, the visiting Americans argued that Ukraine cannot operate an independent nuclear arsenal -- the keys and codes remain in Moscow -- and it would not give them real security anyway, if push ever came to shove with Russia. By holding onto these weapons, the Americans said, Ukraine would undermine the only relationship that could really bring security -- one with the West based on recognition of Ukraine as a democratic, peaceable member of Europe. American officials signaled that they would be ready to talk about limited military cooperation once Ukraine resumed its missile withdrawal -- which, on Thursday, it agreed to do.
This treatment of Ukraine may presage an even larger shift in American policy. Since last year's Soviet coup, the primary American agenda regarding the former Soviet Union seemed to focus on how the West could promote a stable transformation to free-market economies in the successor states, on the theory that without democracy and development these new governments will be neither stable nor legitimate. On that front, Washington could draw encouragement last week when Russia's conservative legislators abandoned an effort to force the resignation of Mr. Yeltsin's Government and proved unable to slow his economic reform program.
But Robert Legvold, a Columbia University expert on Russian affairs, argues that this focus overlooks the fact that with the disintegration of the Soviet Empire a whole new regional system of states has been created in Eurasia, with complex relationships and ancient animosities that make the do-si-do of Arab-Israeli politics seem simple by comparison.
"The disintegration of the Soviet Union has created a new neighborhood," said Mr. Legvold. "The problem with Western policy is that while it has begun to develop a more coherent approach to the transformation of societies inside the former Soviet Union, it has barely begun to develop a coherent policy for maintaining stability of this new neighborhood."
During the cold war, the main security threat from this neighborhood was the real or potential strength of the Soviet Union -- its ability to project nuclear power abroad. Today, the main threat is real or potential weakness -- the inability of the successor states of the Soviet empire to manage their feuds, and the threat posed for regional stability. What this requires, said Mr. Legvold, "is a post-Warsaw Pact security regime that insures this new neighborhood is characterized by cooperative institutions, not competitive alliances."
The Ukraine-Russia axis is the key. The national and ethnic tensions between Russia and Ukraine, two massively armed republics, could tear Eurasia apart. For one thing, 12 million of Ukraine's 52 million people are ethnic Russians, while several areas of Russia, as far east as Siberia, have majority Ukrainian populations. "Without overstating it," said one American official, "this is the place where the whole thing could come crashing down, and where we would have no choice but to get in the middle of it." The Russia-Ukraine dispute is not Nagorno-Karabakh, he added, referring to the enclave in dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. A Russia-Ukraine clash cannot be contained, he said, and therefore "there is a rather compelling case for pre-emptive diplomacy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Torpedoes from the Black Sea fleet destined for destruction in Sevastopol, Ukraine. Written on one torpedo is a military term for 'destroy.' (Kisseliov/Ria-Novosti/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); UKRAINE UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (57%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



620 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: PANAMA QUESTIONS U.S. BASE CLOSURE

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, April 15

 BODY:
With less than eight years to go until the United States is due to end nearly a century of military presence in Panama, many Panamanians are beginning to doubt the wisdom of letting the 10 remaining bases close and the troops depart.
In today's rapidly changing world, they say, they are no longer as nationalistic as they once were and the United States is no longer as colonialistic. That has removed the tensions that led to killings, angry demonstrations and flag burnings in the United States-occupied area bordering the Panama Canal in the 1950's and 60's. 
 Gen. George A. Joulwan, chief of the United States Southern Command, based here, and Bernard W. Aronson, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs both say that the United States is not seeking to stay.
 
Zero Troops
 "We intend to comply with the treaties, which means that we have a plan that takes us to zero by noon on Dec. 31, 1999," General Joulwan said in an interview. Plans for the transfer to Panama of the canal itself are proceeding on schedule, according to Panamanian and United States officials.
But a number of Panamanian politicians and officials said they believe something will be worked out to keep some United States presence here.
"In private, the State Department implies another thing from what it says publicly," said Leo Gonzalez, a member of the National Legislature who supports keeping the bases. "The State Department always says it's not going to do something until it decides to do it. A week before the invasion in 1989, it was saying the United States would never invade Panama."
The United States invaded in December 1989 after a period of increasing tensions that led the then Panamanian strongman, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, to declare that a "state of war" existed. General Noriega surrendered to United States troops and was taken to Florida, where he was convicted on charges of cocaine trafficking, racketeering and money laundering.
A senior United States official who did not want to be identified said there was "evidence of interest" by both Governments in retaining at least some bases.
 
U.S. Is Reluctant
 United States officials are reluctant to raise the issue. The 1977 Panama Canal treaties are specific in stating that the United States commits itself to turn over the canal and the adjacent land and properties before the year 2000 and that all troops will go.
The implementing legislation for the treaties does give the two Governments the right to re-examine the question of the bases, but a United States official said that would produce a "first-class political dogfight" in Panama, so Washington does not intend to take the initiative.
Much of the interest in keeping the bases appears linked to concern about the loss of jobs by 5,400 Panamanian civilians who now work on the bases and the economic benefits for Panama from the jobs and spending by United States troops. General Joulwan's staff said the benefits were conservatively estimated at $264 million; Mr. Gonzalez said he thought the actual value to the Panamanian economy was closer to $600 million.
As things now stand, both Governments are moving toward the complete turnover of the canal and the 500 square miles surrounding it, including 4,800 structures on the 10 bases and other installations, on or before the 1999 deadline.
 
Panama Commission Named
 A commission named by President Guillermo Endara and headed by a leading businessman, J. J. Vallarino Jr., is working on legislation to govern use and development of what are being called the "reverted properties."
Mr. Vallarino said he had calculated that "with a good plan, the area, after development, could be worth $25 billion in market terms." He said expressions of interest in buying or leasing property in the former Canal Zone had come from universities in Panama and the United States and from business groups in Asia.
Pentagon officials have drafted a plan providing for the phased withdrawal of United States troops and transfer of bases and other military installations to Panama between now and 1999.
General Joulwan, who has discussed the plan with President Endara, said it contemplates the withdrawal of about 4,000 of the 10,000 United States troops in Panama before the end of 1995 and "some major turnovers of property" at the same time.
Panamanian Government officials say that while President Endara seemed interested in re-opening the bases issue, he did not want to do it during his term, which ends in 1994.
A recent poll found that 77.5 percent of Panamanians surveyed wanted to renegotiate the matter of the bases. A majority indicated they would like to see Panama rent back some of the bases to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); COCAINE (61%); LAYOFFS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



621 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Racial Politics;
In South Carolina, a Tale of Campaign Trickery

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., April 15

 BODY:
Rod Shealy, a South Carolina Republican political consultant, will go on trial here on April 27 on campaign finance charges stemming from a bogus Congressional candidacy in 1990. Mr. Shealy recruited a black man facing felony charges to run for office with the intention of attracting a large white voter turnout.
The charge Mr. Shealy faces is a misdemeanor carrying penalties comparable to those for littering. But to many in the state, both Democrats and Republicans, the accusation speaks volumes about a style of South Carolina politics in which some people take peculiar pleasure in skulduggery and dirty tricks and shamelessly exploit racial differences and racism in the pursuit of victory. 
 Earl Black, a professor of political science at the University of South Carolina, said the case had a particularly discordant echo in the state that was home to Harry Dent, the political strategist who is considered one of the architects of Richard Nixon's 1968 Southern strategy of captializing on the anger of whites over civil rights advances by blacks.
One of Mr. Dent's protege's was Lee Atwater, the Republican campaigner who raised the hardball form of politics to new levels. Mr. Atwater, who died last year, was in charge of the George Bush campaign team whose research into Michael S. Dukakis's record discovered the case of Willie Horton, a black felon who committed violent crimes while on furlough from prison.
 
Shealy in Atwater Army
 Mr. Shealy said he considers himself "one of a whole army of people who learned a style of aggressive politics" from Mr. Atwater. He says it would be "blasphemy" to compare himself with Mr. Atwater, who became Republican national chairman after Mr. Bush was elected President. But in the views of some people, the 38-year-old Mr. Shealy has exceeded even Mr. Atwater's tactics.
Mr. Atwater simply put Willie Horton and any racist reaction he might provoke on television; Mr. Shealy put the technique into the voting booth.
It was not the first time that Mr. Shealy's name had come up in connection with political tricks or exploitation of racial divisions, said a number of people in both the Democratic and Republican parties.
State Senator Mike Rose, a Republican, said Mr. Shealy and a few other state party leaders were giving the party a bad name with racially divisive tactics and "pernicious political tricks" aimed not only at Democrats but also at Republicans like himself who opposed them.
 
Trying to Help His Sister
 The case against Mr. Shealy goes back to 1990, when he was trying to help his sister, State Senator Sherry Martschink of the Charleston area, in her campaign for the Republican nomination for Lieutenant Governor. That year a veteran black State Senator, Theo Mitchell, was making a strong bid for the Democratic nomination for Governor.
Late in the primary season, a first-term white Democratic State Senator from the Charleston area, Ernie Passalaigue, entered the gubernatorial primary race. Mr. Shealy theorized that this would lead many white voters who wanted to stop Mr. Mitchell to opt to vote in the Democratic primary rather than in the Republican race, as is permitted by state law. As a result, support for white Republican candidates, including his sister, would be siphoned off, Mr. Shealy feared.
 
'I Played Tit for Tat'

"They had their great white hope and he came from our low country area, where my sister was popular," Mr. Shealy said in an interview. "So I played tit for tat and orchestrated a black guy's candidacy in the Republican primary. I didn't care what black guy. It was all a ploy."
Mr. Shealy, with the help of former Representative Robert Kohn, recruited Benjamin J. Hunt, a 28-year-old unemployed Charleston man, to run against Representative Arthur Ravenel Jr., a Republican incumbent. This would have the effect of keeping white voters in the Republican primary in at least one of South Carolina's six Congressional districts.
According to Dick Harpootlian, the prosecutor in the case, Mr. Shealy paid $500 directly to Mr. Hunt and $2,414 in filing fees with money from an unreported $5,000 donation that he solicited from a major hazardous-waste hauler in the name of his sister's campaign. Technically, Mr. Shealy is charged with failing to report this contribution, since paying someone to run for office did not become a violation of state law until this year.
If he is convicted, he could face a maximum sentence of 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. Under the law recently passed by the State Legislature, paying someone to run for office carries a one-year prison sentence.
Mr. Shealy distributed a campaign mailing that included a picture of Mr. Hunt beside a picture of Mr. Ravenel and text saying that while Mr. Hunt had conducted a quiet campaign, it was conceivable that he would have several thousand supporters quietly waiting in ambush.
Mr. Hunt has since been described as an alcoholic and drug dealer who at the time was under indictment for drug sales. He received about 2,000 votes, or 10 percent, in the primary in June 1990. He is now serving a five-year sentence in state prison.
But Mr. Shealy's sister, Senator Martschink, lost the primary for Lieutenant Governor to Henry McMaster, who then lost to the Democratic incumbent, Nick Theodore.
Mr. Kohn was later caught up in the widespread investigation of corruption among elected officials in the state and pleaded guilty to charges of accepting money in exchange for his support of legislation. He is awaiting sentencing.
 
Involvement No Surprise
 Mr. Shealy's involvement does not surprise State Senator Mitchell, who went on to win the 1990 Democratic primary but lose in the general election to Gov. Carroll Campbell, the incumbent. He recalls being approached by Mr. Shealy during the 1990 race with the suggestion that he and Senator Martschink engage in "staged bickering."
Mr. Shealy suggested that by championing a black point of view, Mr. Mitchell could enhance his standing with black voters while Mrs. Martschink could champion a white viewpoint and gain more favor with whites, Mr. Mitchell says.
"I rejected the idea and at the time I didn't even want to believe that he was suggesting that I deliberately polarize things racially," Mr. Mitchell said.
Nor did the charges against Mr. Shealy surprise students at the University of South Carolina who were familiar with his satiric "Gamecock Fever," a football season publication that carried slurs against black, Asian and Hispanic students and that featured a character called "Cockwheat," patterned after the Buckwheat character from old films.
Last fall, student leaders asked him to cease the racial and ethnic references. Manish Shrivastava, then the student body president at the university, said Mr. Shealy's response was to laugh at the complaints.
Other people, like State Senator Rose and State Representative Jimmy Bailey, suggest that Mr. Shealy has been involved in other dirty tricks and bogus candidacies.
Mr. Shealy acknowledged that he had "orchestrated other candidacies" in the state that were intended more as "distractions" than legitimate efforts, but he added that there was nothing illegal about it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rod Shealy, left, a political consultant, recruited Benjamin Hunt, an unemployed Charleston, S.C., man, to run as a Congressional candidate in the 1990 Republican primary. Mr. Shealy goes on trial April 27. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BLACKS (IN US); ETHICS US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ETHICS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); 

PERSON: SHEALY, ROD; HUNT, BENJAMIN; SMOTHERS, RONALD RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



622 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Pennsylvania;
After Time Off, Clinton Finds Campaign Trail a Little Smoother

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 18

 BODY:
Bill Clinton laughed. He waved a couple of bunches of broccoli, President Bush's most-hated vegetable. He walked with the Mayor. Then he flew from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, put on a Pirates baseball jacket and blue jeans and did it all over again.
There is an art to walking down the street in a Presidential campaign. When it is done right, Mr. Clinton looks like a man of the people, offering snippets from his standard speech as he fields questions along the way. But sometimes the unexpected happens, as it did today when he was greeted by jeering supporters of Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., who were waiting at the corner of 21st Street and Penn Avenue. 
 They yelled "Jerry! Jerry!" for several minutes, blocking prized camera angles with Brown campaign signs, before the Clinton partisans had the presence of mind to whip up a few cheers of "We Want Bill!"
Frank Greer, the Clinton campaign's media adviser, who was on hand to film commercials, rushed into the crowd at one point and earnestly advised one Brown supporter that such tactics did not work.
But if that was the worst problem the Arkansas Governor would encounter on an otherwise smooth week's return to the campaign trail, Mr. Clinton and his staff were relieved.
Although opinion polls continued to suggest that Mr. Clinton has a way to go before he wins voters' hearts as well as their minds, the Governor's advisers said that he scored points this week by challenging Mr. Bush on education and economic policy and that his last major Democratic opponent, Mr. Brown, has been largely drowned out.
"If their strategy is to crowd us out on the issues, it's a big mistake," Mr. Clinton's deputy campaign manager, George Stephanopoulos, said of the White House's decision to schedule major announcements on the same days that Mr. Clinton delivers major policy speeches. "Because every time he does that, he calls attention to what he hasn't done."
Mr. Clinton especially appeared to enjoy putting Mr. Bush on the defensive. After six days off the road that he spent nursing his strained vocal cords at home in Little Rock, Mr. Clinton seemed largely recovered from the battering he took in the weeks leading up to the New York primary.
He has also tried to minimize a potential conflict with Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania, a Democrat who opposes abortion rights and has said he sees no reason to endorse Mr. Clinton when polls show that many Democrats wish there were other choices.
As Mr. Clinton strolled past shoppers at an outdoor market today before attending a baseball game between the Pirates and the Philadelphia Phillies, he said that his ability to win the Pennsylvania primary on April 28 should not be hurt by Mr. Casey's disaffection, just as he was unhurt by not having an endorsement by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York.
"I won in New York and Governor Cuomo didn't take a position during the New York primary," he said. "And I've won in many other states where the governors didn't."
"And my wife's family's from Scranton," he added. "That ought to count for something."
But everywhere he goes, Mr. Clinton is asked about the issue of his character and whether he can persuade voters to support him. Today the question came during an appearance on WPXI-TV, the NBC affiliate here. His response provided a look at what his aides have said will be the campaign's approach to defusing the issue in the long run.
"I think the American people, in looking at this character issue, ought to look at my record, my life and my commitment and ask themselves, who's told them that there's a character problem?" he said. "Not the governors who endorsed me, not the people that I grew up with, not the people who elected me Governor five times. Not the people who know me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (84%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (84%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BASEBALL (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JERRY BROWN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



623 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: Skipping Raises: A special report;
Blue-Collar Compromises in Pursuit of Job Security

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WOOSTER, Ohio

 BODY:
On the edge of this prosperous rural town, rolling cornfields give way to neat ranch-style homes, well-groomed parks and unobtrusive, one-story factories. Here, Rubbermaid Inc., the town's biggest employer, boasts no layoffs since 1973.
Still, there is tension in Wooster as workers have traded raises for job security -- pressured to do so not only by Rubbermaid but by neighbors who fear the company might otherwise pull out. 
 The struggle here, experts say, represents some telling lessons about the manufacturing work place of the 1990's. Few corporations in America are as successful as Rubbermaid. Yet at Rubbermaid, and at many other American companies, gains from profits and more productive workers are not necessarily trickling down to the people on the factory floor.
"Spending the extra income that comes from productivity on higher wages is theoretically desirable, but not practical; it totally ignores competitiveness," said Stanley C. Gault, Rubbermaid's chairman from 1980 until last May, when he became chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in nearby Akron.
But while Mr. Gault says the payoff for worker productivity is job security, some of Rubbermaid's workers contend that job security is being used as a guise to cut income.
"They call us partners, but instead of sharing with us, as you would a partner, we are treated as indentured servants," said Michael Farmer, who earns $11.04 an hour packing plastic housewares as they come out of molding machines.
Nevertheless, a truce between the company and the United Rubber Workers union has evolved over seven years -- stemming from Rubbermaid's demonstrated readiness, despite its long history in Wooster, to forgo expansion here in favor of its 23 other lower cost, non-union factories from Cleburne, Tex., to Cortland, N.Y. Five already make the same housewares manufactured at the flagship factory here.
Indeed, Rubbermaid gradually shifted products once made here -- bathtub appliques and plastic-handled sponges, for example -- to its other plants. Finally in the mid-1980's, workers here agreed to wage and benefit concessions that halted the process and ended a shrinking of the work force. At one point, through attrition 250 jobs, or 15 percent of those at the Wooster plant, had been lost.
"We have acted as an explorer of the wage problem," said John Thompson, president of Rubber Workers Local 302, which represents the factory workers among Rubbermaid's 1,770 employees here. "We have said this is where we are now on costs, and this is where others are in the industry and at other Rubbermaid locations. And we have discussed with management how to close the cost gap between us and them."
In fact, the union not only gave ground on wages and health benefits; it also agreed to eliminate automatic cost-of-living increases, reduce overtime pay and relax rigid work schedules. The union also settled for a two-tier wage system that pays people hired since March 1987 substantially less than veteran workers.
In several ways, Rubbermaid has gained the sort of labor-cost breaks that Caterpillar Inc. has sought in recent months in its bitter dispute with the United Automobile Workers union. "The difference with Rubbermaid is that Caterpillar wants its concessions overnight, and that is jarring," said Wolfgang R. Schmitt, Rubbermaid's president. "We are doing it over time."
Even through recessions, Rubbermaid's output of housewares and other plastics products has kept climbing, along with sales and profits. By its own estimate, workers in Wooster today turn out nearly twice as many dustpans, for example, as they did in 1980.
Such productivity, if it were to spread across corporate America, should in theory bring larger paychecks, economists say, given that each worker produces more and more revenue. That would end the wage stagnation that has plagued America since the early 1970's. But instead of wage increases, Rubbermaid earmarks about one-third of its profits for dividends to shareholders, and nearly two-thirds for investment, mostly for new, more efficient machinery that the company considers critical to insure its survival.
Craig and Debora Droun, born and raised here, are both longtime workers at Rubbermaid, he as a machinist, she as a packer. Although they say they would never want to leave Wooster, they tell of the pressure on them to work harder and accept their lot, pressure that comes not only from their bosses but also from townspeople who fear the company might leave or even fail.
"We keep getting shoved down our throats how well Rubbermaid has done," said Mr. Droun, who earns $14 an hour as a highly skilled technician. "True, we are making good money for Wooster," where a typical three-bedroom home costs about $70,000. "But without raises, we have trouble making ends meet. People here who don't work for Rubbermaid, don't understand that. When we complain about our jobs, they say, 'Are you crazy?' "
 
The Company
Ties With Town Date to 1920
 A break with Wooster would not come easily for Rubbermaid, which was founded here in 1920, first as a balloon maker and then as a maker of dustpans, bathmats, dish racks, toys, office furniture and many other everyday products. One of the founding families is still a major shareholder, and one family member has a seat on the board. Rubbermaid's chairmen were Wooster natives or longtime residents, until the 58-year-old Walter W. Williams succeeded Mr. Gault last May. Until he joined the company in 1987, Mr. Williams had never laid eyes on Wooster, whose population is 22,000, but now he insists that he and his wife will live out their lives here.
"If Rubbermaid were ruthless, the only thing that would drive the company would be the search for towns with the lowest labor costs that are close to our markets," Mr. Williams said.
Clearly, Rubbermaid is not ruthless. Its headquarters here, and its flagship factory, employing 1,770, account for 7 percent of the jobs in the town. At a starting wage of $7.71 an hour and median pay of about $10.50 an hour, Rubbermaid's wages for both blue collar and white collar workers are top scale in small-town America -- helping to rank Wooster 24th in total personal income among rural towns and cities, according to Commerce Department data. It is better pay than Rubbermaid's 7,000 workers in other towns, who earn a median wage of less than $9 an hour.
Perhaps nothing reflects Rubbermaid's ties to Wooster -- and the privileged status of its workers in the eyes of their neighbors -- more than the company's pension plan. It evolved in the 1940's from the concerns of an earlier Rubbermaid chairman over the lack of retirement benefits for workers who were injured and forced to retire early. An amount equal to 15 percent of the total annual income of each Rubbermaid worker in Wooster is paid by the company into an individual pension account for each employee. For Rubbermaid workers outside Wooster, the company's pension contribution is only 5 percent.
The Drouns, who are in their late 30's, have accumulated between them more than $150,000 in this fashion, money which they cannot withdraw but can invest. "We have the money in an insurance fund that pays us 10 percent interest a year," said Mr. Droun, whose annual earnings combined with his wife's total less than $50,000 a year.
Such retirement savings, together with their wages, help explain why townspeople here are decidedly unsympathetic when Rubbermaid workers complain about their lot. When Richard Louttit, a former president of the United Rubber Workers local here, sent a letter to Wooster's Daily Record in November, denouncing the new Rubbermaid contract, the newspaper published it and then followed up with harshly critical replies from readers.
Mr. Louttit had written, "The 797 votes for this agreement (out of 1,063 blue-collar workers in Local 302) was more out of fear and intimidation than for acceptance." In reply, one reader wrote: "Have you any idea how many young men would cut off a finger to start a job at $7.71 an hour? Talk to someone who starts at $4.50 and reaches a high of $5.85 after four or five years."
Another wrote: "Rubbermaid is an asset to Wooster. It creates jobs, gives benefits and pays all kinds of taxes."
The company and its employees who live in Wooster pay 17.5 percent of the revenue collected from the town's income tax. As civic leaders, the company or its top executives have converted an elementary school into an arts center, donated the land for a new high school, built an office for United Way, a recital hall for the College of Wooster and a parsonage for the Methodist Church, among many other projects. Henry Copeland, the college president, said Rubbermaid or people associated with the company contributed 5 percent of all gifts received in the 1980's for new buildings and the endowment fund.
"If Rubbermaid were to leave, that would change the nature of the town; the quality of life would deteriorate, without a doubt," said James B. Pyers, director of finance for the municipal government. "As you drive around town, you don't hit potholes. If Rubbermaid were to leave, you would for a while."
 
The Union
Competition Among Factories
 With its concessions, the United Rubber Workers has in effect given in to an unusual proposition: the company's workers in Wooster have agreed to compete for production work -- and in the long run for their jobs -- against Rubbermaid's non-union employees at its 23 other plants.
Nowhere is that more evident than in the behavior of the workers themselves, among them Jan Douglas, a union shop steward who gathered her team of a dozen employees on a recent Tuesday to discuss various projects to increase efficiency.
Seated around a U-shaped table in a conference room at the Rubbermaid plant here, Ms. Douglas and her colleagues -- drawn from the non-union office staff as well as the shop floor -- told of a project they had promoted to equip maintenance technicians with electric carts, so they could get to repair jobs more quickly in the vast factory and minimize production shutdowns. The proposal to buy the carts was made by the workers and approved by management.
"We were not happy with the way things were going," said Ms. Douglas, who has 21 years at Rubbermaid. "The world was changing and Rubbermaid was growing and we were not the company's only factory. To keep work here, we have to be competitive with our brother and sister workers at Rubbermaid plants in other cities."
Essentially in this spirit, the labor agreement signed in 1985 specified no wage increases, but did include two one-time bonuses. To encourage management to once again expand operations at Wooster, ending the attrition, the union agreed in the 1987 contract to continue to freeze wages except for bonuses for existing workers while installing a lower wage scale for every new hire starting in early 1987.
That lower scale, which Mr. Williams describes as competitive with labor costs at other Rubbermaid locations, is $7.71 to $11 an hour, compared with $10 to nearly $14 today for workers hired earlier.
"We were paying above Wooster area wages, and the upper scale is still above wages in this area," said Mr. Schmitt, the company president. But at the lower wage scale, Rubbermaid has begun to hire again in Wooster -- adding about 150 new workers, some of them children of existing employees.
That Rubbermaid can pay these new hires at a lower wage scale is testimony, economists say, to a labor oversupply -- too many applicants in many parts of the country for jobs that pay $8 or $9 an hour. Given such pressures, the Rubber Workers have permitted overtime pay to decline at the Wooster plant, although the plant still operates seven days a week, three shifts a day.
The union has agreed to flexible schedules, without overtime pay, for workers hired since 1987. Even Mr. Droun, who is 39 with 14 years at Rubbermaid, voluntarily exchanged regular hours, with overtime, for irregular hours without extra pay, but an opportunity to advance. He now often works two consecutive 12-hour night shifts, from 7 P.M. to 7 A.M. Then, after two days off, he switches to two consecutive 12-hour day shifts, from 7 A.M. to 7 P.M., at no extra pay.
"I spend my days off trying to adjust my sleeping hours," Mr. Droun said, "but that was my choice."
 
The Worker
A Machinist Tries To Move Up
 A small group of skilled workers, including Craig Droun, maintain and operate the factory's sophisticated, computerized machinery, and the company so far has restricted advancement to this group -- allowing them to increase their wages if they go through a rigorous training program to add new functions to their jobs, making them and the factory more productive.
Mr. Droun, for example, is to emerge from the program qualified to operate not only as a machinist but also as an electrician, computer operator and trouble shooter. He and seven others getting similar training will operate and maintain a recently installed 36-foot-high, German-made blow molder machine that uses blasts of air to mold nearly liquid plastic into large, three-ply plastic garbage cans.
The company agreed to install the blow-molder in Wooster rather than in another of its factories only if the union agreed to combine some jobs, as Mr. Droun is doing. "We have to run the blow molder all the time, or we can't justify the investment here," Mr. Schmitt said, "That's why we need people with multiple skills on duty all the time."
Mr. Droun's 12-hour days, at no extra pay, wasanother concession that the company required to install the blow molder here rather than at another plant. Why did he make such a choice? "I liked being a machinist, but I was stuck at $12 an hour," said Mr. Droun, whose pay has already risen to $14 an hour and by 1993 will be $15.43 an hour.
Still, machinists earn $16.50 an hour in Cleveland, about an hour's drive away, where they are apparently in demand, without all of Mr. Droun's extra training. Mr. Droun said that three of his colleagues at Rubbermaid had recently left the company to be machinists in Cleveland, at $16.50 an hour. Why didn't he go with them?
"I don't like to commute," Mr. Droun replied, while relaxing in the living room of his three-bedroom, ranch-style home on a plot large enough for his 9-year-old son Kevin to play soccer in the front yard.
Then, too, the Cleveland job might not last. Job security is clearly a draw for the Drouns, and Rubbermaid's record of not having laid off anyone since 1973, a record it maintains in part by using sub-contractors to produce Rubbermaid products and then, in slack periods, retrieving the work to keep regular employees busy.
"We don't want to leave," Mr. Droun said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Burn and John Thompson, a union official, at the Rubbermaid Inc. plant in Wooster, Ohio. (Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times) (pg. 1); The tower of City Hall rising over Wooster, Ohio. The town's the biggest employer, Rubbermaid Inc., boasts no layoffs since 1973, but workers have traded raises for job security; "If Rubbermaid were ruthless, the only thing that would drive the company would be the search for towns with the lowest labor costs that are close to our markets," said Walter W. Williams, Rubbermaid's new chairman, speaking of residents' fears of the company leaving town. (Photographs by Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times) (pg. 18)
 
Graphs: "Success in Manufacturing," tracks sales and profits at Rubbermaid, 1971-1991 (Source: Company reports) (pg. 18)
 
Map of Ohio, indicating Wooster. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: NWL (NYSE) (94%); GT (SWX) (82%); GT (NASDAQ) (82%); GT (BRU) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (94%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (94%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (94%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (82%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (82%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (82%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (82%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUBBERMAID INC NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (94%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUBBERMAID INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WOOSTER (OHIO) UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); OVERTIME (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TIRES (72%); COST OF LIVING (72%); RUBBER & SILICONE (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



624 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: SERBIAN GUERRILLAS POUNDING SARAJEVO IN DEFIANCE OF U.S.

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, April 18

 BODY:
Serbian guerrillas pounded central Sarajevo with mortar shells today as a high-ranking American official arrived with humanitarian aid for Bosnia and Herzegovina and support for its independence and territorial integrity.
Washington's confrontation with Serbia appeared to be heightening. The Serbian Foreign Ministry delivered a formal protest to the United States Embassy, calling American policy one-sided and anti-Serbian. 
 The Sarajevo television reported tonight that 7 people had been killed in fighting in the city in the last 24 hours and that 12 people had died in that period in clashes throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Security officials said it was possible that even more had died in the republic, where fighting surged this month just before the European Community and the United States recognized its independence from Yugoslavia.
 
A Symbol of U.S. Concern
 Serbs, who number about a third of the new republic's population, oppose independence and want to preserve links with Serbia, the biggest of the six republics that made up Yugoslavia. Serbian forces have sought to take territory in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the latest flareup of fighting in Yugoslavia, a nation that was welded together in 1918 from various peoples of different faiths.
The American official, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Ralph R. Johnson, arrived in Sarajevo today aboard the first of two Air Force C-141 cargo planes carrying a total of 40 tons of food, blankets and medical supplies, which he described as "a symbol of our concern for Bosnia." He was accompanied by Warren Zimmermann, the American Ambassador to Belgrade.
Security was tight at the snow-swept airport as the planes arrived. Five miles away, Serbian guerrillas fought militia forces loyal to Bosnia and Herzegovina near an arms factory and arsenal.
As Mr. Johnson stepped onto the runway, several Yugoslav Army infantrymen had their guns trained on his plane and the guerrilla-infested hills near the airport. But tensions eased as the operation unfolded.
Mr. Johnson held talks this afternoon with Bosnia and Herzegovina's President, Alija Izetbegovic, on establishing full diplomatic relations between Washington and Sarajevo. As they met in midafternoon, the Serbian shelling started.
 
No Comment on Sanctions
 The Sarajevo television, which is fairly reliable, reported that some of the mortar shells had been fired from a position within a mile of the presidency building where the two met. Serbian irregulars have held the position for some days.
Mr. Johnson, who is making the first stop of his trip here, refused to comment on whether the United States was preparing sanctions against Serbia for actively supporting the Serbian militias that have been taking over territory in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Hundreds of people have been killed and at least 200,000 driven from their homes in six weeks of fighting.
"I don't want to speculate on further actions," Mr. Johnson said. "In Belgrade, I have a chance to see the Serbians."
"Our concern is with the violence," he added. "We are not concerned only with one side."
The State Department warned this week that the United States would take steps to isolate Serbia politically and economically if it did not halt Serbian attacks on Bosnia and Herzegovina territory. The warnings by the United States and by European Community countries have so far failed to persuade Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, local Serb leaders in this republic and the Yugoslav Army commanders to stop the fighting.
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Zimmermann met later with the local Yugoslav Army commander, Gen. Milutin Kukanjac.
 
U.S. Policy Called Biased
 In his sharply worded protest to the American Embassy in Belgrade, the Serbian Foreign Minister, Vladislav Jovanovic, criticized what he called the "one-sided, biased and prejudiced policy the United States has recently been conducting in regard to the Yugoslav crisis."
Mr. Jovanovic condemned "the aggressiveness and ultimatum-like tone used by official United States representatives in their attacks on Serbia and the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina."
"Both the Serbian Government and the Serbian people feel very bitter about such an unprincipled policy," the protest said.
Bosnia and Herzegovina, a mountainous land that straddles the Roman Catholic west and Orthodox Christian and Islamic east, has long been a flashpoint for international incidents. In June 1914, a Serb nationalist assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria in Sarajevo, touching off World War I.
Neither Bosnia nor Herzegovina has ever been an independent state.
Most of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 1.4 million Serbs oppose the republic's separation from Serbia by an international border. The 1.9 million Muslim Slavs and 750,000 Roman Catholic Croats oppose remaining a part of a Serb-dominated rump Yugoslavia, fearing repression by a Communist Government whose record on abuses of minorities has already been condemned by Western governments and international human-rights organizations as Europe's worst.
Mr. Izetbegovic, a Muslim Slav, today expressed confidence that his republic would soon fulfill all United States conditions for full diplomatic ties. "I gave Mr. Johnson oral assurances," he said after today's meeting.
Mr. Johnson said "the decision will be made in Washington," adding that he was confident that the United States response would be positive.
 
Fighting Reported Elsewhere
 Mr. Johnson is scheduled to travel to Croatia and Slovenia over the next few days for talks on establishing diplomatic relations with those former Yugoslav republics, which were recognized by the United States last week. He will later visit Macedonia, which Washington is expected to recognize in a matter of weeks, as well as Montenegro and Serbia.
In addition to the fighting in and near Sarajevo, heavy fighting was reported in the towns of Derventa and Srebrenica.
Much of today's fighting took place in a strip of land along Bosnia and Herzegovina's eastern and northern borders with Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia. The area is populated mostly by Muslim-Slavs and Croats but coveted by the Serbs because it links predominantly Serbian areas within this republic.
The American aid airlift has been greeted with more fanfare here than any American aid program since Tito's Yugoslavia benefited from United States humanitarian and military aid after it broke with the Soviet bloc in 1948.
The Serbian Government and Belgrade's Government-controlled press have hardly mentioned the airlift. Serbian officials tried to block the operation and demanded that the American planes fly first to a Belgrade airport to pass customs, American officials said.
In all, five planeloads of aid are scheduled to be delivered to Sarajevo by Sunday. The shipments are to include 90,000 ready-to-eat meals and 10,440 blankets from United States military reserves and 30,000 pounds of medical supplies belonging to the Dutch chapter of Doctors Without Frontiers, a French aid organization. The planes flew to Sarajevo from Pisa, Italy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The funeral procession for a Croatian soldier in the village of Vitina yesterday. The soldier was killed in fighting with Yugoslav Army troops in Bosnia and Herzegovina, near Kupres. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)
 
Map of Yugoslavia, indicating Sarajevo. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; SARAJEVO (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); ARMIES (74%); AIR FORCES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); DISMISSALS (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, RALPH R (ASST SEC); SUDETIC, CHUCK RALPH R JOHNSON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



625 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
A Modest Perot Bandwagon Could Upset Big Apple Carts

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., April 18

 BODY:
Ross Perot's flirtation with an independent bid for the White House has thrown a sudden wild card into the race that both President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton regard as a danger. But neither side has yet figured out exactly how much damage the billionaire could do or precisely how to deal with him.
For now, the two campaigns have no real strategy beyond hoping that Mr. Perot will prove too thin-skinned for the pressure of public scrutiny and that his popularity will diminish without much effort from either of the opposing camps. 
 Mr. Perot threatens Mr. Bush's effort to overcome public doubts about his management skills and his attempts to escape the "throw the bums out" mood of the early primaries.
But Mr. Perot could also undermine Mr. Clinton's attempt to present himself as a credible alternative to Mr. Bush. If he withstands the inevitable dissection of his character and business dealings, Mr. Perot could end up helping Mr. Bush keep attention on questions about Mr. Clinton's trustworthiness.
 
Hoping History Repeats
 While strategists in both parties talk about how to counter a Perot drive, the campaigns are consumed with more immediate problems: Mr. Clinton with challenging Mr. Bush directly, and the President with pulling out of a nose dive and giving a meandering campaign some direction.
For now, they are contemplating the interloper warily, trying to avoid direct engagement and hoping that Mr. Perot will stay out. If he gets in, both sides hope for a repeat of history that shows independents, like George C. Wallace in 1968 and John B. Anderson in 1980, soar in the spring and crash in the fall.
"Our plan is to ignore him," a senior Bush strategist said as the President retreated to his family estate here for Easter weekend. "Our plan is to ignore everybody but ourselves, to focus on staying Presidential and laying out an agenda and not be distracted into exchanges with Clinton or Perot."
George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's deputy campaign manager, said Mr. Perot is "not even on the ballot yet." He added, "Why would we want to start fighting another shadow?"
Mr. Clinton told reporters on Thursday that Mr. Perot "has high national name recognition, and you all haven't had the chance to put him though the meat grinder yet." He added that Mr. Perot was enjoying the politician's ideal of being "known by everybody and criticized by no one."
Mr. Clinton is right that Mr. Perot is untested, but he may overestimate his standing. A New York Times/CBS News poll of registered voters, conducted March 26-29, showed that twice as many had a favorable opinion of Mr. Perot, 16 percent, as had an unfavorable opinion. But 66 percent said they had not heard enough about him to form an opinion. The telephone survey of 1,638 adults had a sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Polls now show Mr. Perot drawing about equally from Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton. "If I was sitting in either camp, I would be very concerned," said Edward C. Rollins, a Republican strategist, "but I would be most concerned if I were sitting in the President's camp, because this is a guy who is going to spend $100 million arguing against the status quo."
Assuming that Mr. Perot does run, politicians in both parties expect Mr. Perot's standing -- between the 16 percent in the New York Times poll and about 25 percent in others -- to deflate as the race becomes more traditionally partisan. Mr. Wallace and Mr. Anderson started with about 25 percent each. Mr. Wallace finished with 13.5 percent of the vote, Mr. Anderson with less than 7 percent.
 
Tapping Into Resentment
 But Howard H. Baker Jr., the former Republican Senator from Tennessee and White House Chief of Staff, said: "We've had all sorts of third-party and equivalent candidates in the past. But we've never had one where you combine such a tide of anti-incumbency and a man who has got two to three billion dollars. Put those together, and nobody knows what will happen."
Mr. Perot's political message strikes to the rage of those middle-class voters who never shared in the prosperity of the 1980's and their disgust with Washington, just as Mr. Wallace galvanized blue-collar resentment of the civil rights movement and desegregation in both the North and South.
"You see these outcroppings of anger and frustration about every decade," said Lance Tarrance, the Republican poll-taker. "This time, it's about economic management. But it all has to do with perceived weaknesses."
In the November vote, Mr. Tarrance and others said, Mr. Perot could only hope to be the deciding factor by drawing enough voters from one candidate, or to deadlock the election and throw it to the House of Representatives to decide. In that eventuality, which seems unlikely now, Mr. Clinton would stand to benefit, since the House is controlled by a strong Democratic majority.
 
Looking Toward 1996?
 More broadly, Mr. Perot could force the two parties to amend their policies and tactics. "George Wallace set the agenda for the Republican Party nationally for the next 20 years," said Jack Bass, co-author of the "The Transformation of Southern Politics," published by Basic Books in 1976. "Many of their targets were first identified by George Wallace attacking the Southern liberal establishment."
Mr. Perot could also put himself in a position to make another bid for the Presidency in 1996, when the Republican nomination will be wide open.
Mr. Bush's problems with Mr. Perot were evident in the New York Times/CBS News poll. Among those who said they would vote for Mr. Perot in a three-way race, only 9 percent said they approved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy, while 88 percent said they disapproved.
Mr. Perot has already started reminding voters of the way he amassed his billions and took on the General Motors Corporation by forcing his way onto its board of directors.
 
Both Will and Wallet
 "When one considers President Bush's line that we've got the will but we don't have the wallet, well, Perot represents someone with both the will and the wallet -- and the record as a problem-solver," said Kirk O'Donnell, a Democratic lobbyist.
The Bush camp's response forecasts how it might attack Mr. Perot. "Perot's got a lot of contradictions, liberal on some things, conservative on others," a senior Bush aide said. "He's not an anti-Government figure. He's a guy who made most of his money off the Government. He's a guy who's used the system and the old-boy network."
Mr. Perot, who supports legalized abortion and gun control, could interfere with Mr. Clinton's plan to draw voters who are unhappy with Mr. Bush on social issues. In Texas, he has long been active in education policy, a subject that Mr. Clinton is hoping to dominate, and he is a true non-politician.
Mr. O'Donnell said the challenge for Mr. Clinton is to "focus on becoming the candidate of change and not allow Perot to capture that mantle."
"Clinton must come forward as someone who has specific answers to the significant problems the nation faces," he said.
 
Challenge in the Rockies
 The Bush campaign sees Mr. Perot as a challenge in the Rockies, where Mr. Bush has never been very strong, as another complication in an already muddled California race, and as a problem in Texas, a state Mr. Bush cannot afford to lose.
"We would have to address Texas early," a top Bush aide said. "But he's repeated the need for a state income tax in the last year, and that's anathema down there. Pro-gun control is not going to take any votes from us."
The Bush campaign does not see Mr. Perot as a threat in the South, but he would complicate the race for Ronald Reagan's middle-class voters.
"Perot won't pull old dyed-in-the-wool Republicans, but he'll get a lot of peole who voted for Democrats way back and would never vote for Dukakis, but probably voted for Jimmy Carter the first time and then Reagan the second time," said Wayne Greenhaw, author of "Elephants in the Cottonfields," an influential work on Southern Republicans.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An independent bid for the White House by Ross Perot, below right, may upset the re-election campaign strategy of President Bush, below left, and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, above, campaigning yesterday in Pittsburgh. Mr. Bush is shown walking on the beach yesterday in Kennebunkport, Me. (Photographs by the Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); EASTER SEASON (63%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



626 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-9

SERBS POUND BOSNIAN CAPITAL
Serbian guerrillas pounded central Sarajevo with mortar shells as a high-ranking American official arrived on a mission to bring humanitarian aid and to back Bosnia's independence from Yugoslavia. 1
 
IRAN'S MASTER BUILDER
If the late Ayatollah Khomeini was the austere revolutionary determined to smash the old regime, President Rafsanjani is the state builder, just as determined to create institutions that will restore Iran to a position of power in the region. In fact, he would like to be seen as a throughly modern mullah. 1
 
COURTING A TOP AFGHAN REBEL
Surrounded by rebels and weakened by the capture of a western city, Afghanistan's new Government in Kabul agreed to continue talks with one of the most powerful guerrilla military leaders. 3
 
SIGNS OF REBELLION IN EUROPE
Just four months after the European Community signed a treaty on economic and political unity, the organization is being shaken by challenges to the pact and new uncertainty over the region's future. Many Europeans are less enthusiastic over the treaty than are their leaders. 8
 
President Havel has decided to seek re-election in Czechoslovakia. 8
 
GORBACHEV'S PITCH TO JAPAN
Showing that he retains much of his old stature in Japan, Mikhail Gorbachev has been accorded a welcome approaching that of a head of state since his arrival a week ago. But his appeal for aid for ex-Soviet lands has received a cool response. 9
 
PANAMA WAVERS OVER PULLOUT
With less than eight years to go before the United States ends nearly a century of military presence in Panama, many Panamanians are beginning to doubt the wisdom of letting the 10 remaining bases close and the troops depart. 7
 
National 10-25
 
VAST REVIEW OF DIABILITY CASES
Reversing one of the most widely criticized policies of the Reagan Administration, Federal officials have agreed to reopen tens of thousands of cases in which the Government denied benefits to people who said they could not work because of mental or physical disabilities. 1
 
Some whose cases were denied, and who may now gain. 20
 
NOVEMBER'S WILD CARD
Political Memo: The Bush and Clinton campaigns both regard Ross Perot's flirtation with a Presidential race as a danger. But neither of them yet has a strategy for dealing with it. 1
 
Some of Bush's relatives could prove Democratic targets. 14
 
Buchanan renewed his attacks on the President. 13
 
For Clinton, a smooth week's return to the campaign trail. 12
 
LESSONS OF THE WORKPLACE
In Wooster, Ohio, the biggest employer is Rubbermaid, which has not laid off a worker there since 1973. Yet tension prevails. Workers have traded raises for job security, pressured to do so by management, and by neighbors who fear that the company might otherwise pull out. 1
 
ENTRAPMENT AND VINDICATION
Five years after being charged with receiving child pornography, and just days after the Supreme Court ruled that he had been entrapped, Keith Jacobson feels this way: "I knew I wasn't a child pornographer. But when the Government charges you with something like that, what are people going to think?" 10
 
San Quentin Journal: After 25 years, an execution is at hand. 10
 
Minnesota is adopting a vast overhaul of health care. 15
 
Regional 26-32

A QUIET NEW YORK HOLIDAY
After a flurry of activity, much of New York City seemed to slip into a quiet, meditative state this weekend, as residents celebrated Passover and Easter. 1
 
PORT JEFFERSON'S MYSTERY MAN
Most residents of the quaint waterfront village never exchanged a word with him or caught more than a quick glance as he strode by in one of his sober business suits. But he was thought of as the very incarnation of success. Now he is charged with a vast fraud scheme, and residents don't know what to think. 26
 
THE OTHER COP ON THE BEAT
They walk the streets in crisp blue uniforms, their faces mirroring those of the people in the neighborhood. They look like New York City police officers, but in fact they are auxiliary police: volunteers who patrol the streets out of a sense of do-goodism, part Kiwanis Club and part would-be detective. 27
 
Obituaries 30
Joseph B. Williams, an ex-New York State Supreme Court justice.
 
Arts/Reviews 45-46
 
Fashion 40-41
 
Weddings 42-44

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vaclav Havel will run again for president of Czechoslovakia. 8 (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (63%); RELIGION (55%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (50%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



627 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/April 12-17

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
An Uneasy Labor Peace Descends on Caterpillar 

"Because we want to rebuild good relations," said Gerald S. Flaherty, a group president at Caterpillar Inc., "we have invited back every striking hourly employee in good standing." But some of the 12,600-striking members of the United Automobile Workers, won't be staying for long. About 10 percent of them will be let go, the company said, through early retirement or attrition. "This is a successful company," said Bennett Harrison, a professor of political economy at Carnegie Mellon University. "It's not financially restructuring, its technically restructuring. It has invested enormously in automation." The U.A.W. wanted salaries of $40,000 for its top workers by 1994. Caterpillar drew the line at $39,000, saying that otherwise it could not compete internationally. But not everyone agrees. "Its competitors are all unionized -- Deere is unionized, Komatsu is unionized -- and there are no third-world, cheap-labor plants," Mr. Harrison said.

And Now, a Pepsi Uncola
 
When Pepsico Inc. introduced Crystal Pepsi last week, it posed a question to the $48 billion soft drink market even the philosophers would be hard pressed to answer: If you call it a cola, but remove the color, take out the caffeine, drop the sugar content and alter the name, will it still be accepted in the market? Pepsi hopes the new brand -- which was released in Dallas, Providence, R.I., and Colorado -- will do just that by snatching sales away from the fast-growing, clear-beverage market. Sales of colored beverages are, well, flat. But sales of clear beverages like mineral water, club soda and even Clearly Canadian, a sweet, clear wine, are growing smartly. "The brown goods are dying," said Jesse Meyers, publisher of Beverage Digest, a newsletter in Greenwich, Conn. "Crystal Pepsi is aimed directly at Clearly Canadian and its ilk," he said.
 
Boeing's Cathay Pacific Orders
 
Recession or not, the Boeing Company keeps racking up those orders. Last week it won an order from Cathay Pacific Airways, based in Hong Kong, for 11 new 777's to be delivered between 1996 and 1998. The sale was valued at $1.7 billion. Cathay also took options on 11 Boeing 777's to be delivered between 1997 and 2000. There was bad news for America's jet engine makers. Cathy will get its thrust from engines by Rolls-Royce.

Big Bucks for Millie's Boswell

Though Barbara Bush listed her occupation as "housewife" on the Bush family's tax return last week, she was the First Family's major breadwinner. President Bush's salary, which is set by Congress at a mere $200,000, paled next to Mrs. Bush's earnings. Royalties from "Millie's Book," which Mrs. Bush wrote from her dog's point of view, was a best seller. It earned $889,176 in royalties last year. By comparison, Mr. Bush's book, "Looking Forward," about government from his point of view, earned only $2,718. "The President is taking it very well," said Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary. Mrs. Bush's royalties were donated to charity.

Chrysler's Electric Concept
 
The world's auto makers have been talking electric since the early 1920's, when Ferdinand Porsche, the great German automobile designer, raced down the road in a battery-powered car. Trouble was, none of these "concept" cars ever made it into production. Last week, Lee Iacocca, chairman of Chrysler, said his company would sell an all-electric van. "We have a good electric vehicle to sell now. This is not a show car," he said. The van, which will cost a pricey $120,000, will offset some of the pollution caused by Chrysler's gas-guzzling, 10-cylinder, 400-horsepower Viper, also on sale this year.
 
Last week, the Ford Motor Company said it would invest $3 billion in new plants and equipment. It also said it would buy half the Flint Rock, Mich., assembly plant which is owned by the Mazda Motor Corporation's. Ford holds a 25 percent stake in Mazda.
 
Is Big Blue Bouncing Back?
 
After agonizing in public for more than a year about its woes, the International Business Machines Corporation surprised many on Wall Street by reporting earnings of $595 million or $1.04 a share, in the first quarter. Big Blue lost $1.7 billion last year. Though analysts were upbeat, they cautioned it was too early to conclude that I.B.M.'s better performance was the result of a corporate restructuring announced in December. "It was a sigh of relief type of quarter," said Steven Milunovich, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. I.B.M. stock jumped 75 cents on the news, to $88.25 and ended the week at $88.625.

A Surge for CBS
 
Getting people to veg out viewing CBS hasn't been easy. For four years the former was dead last in the ratings. But last year the programming mavens at Black Rock, CBS' New York headquarters, spruced up their programming with oodles of sports, lots of news, several hot new series and 8,000 promotional spots. It worked. Viewers flipped to CBS and stayed glued to it throughout the season. Last week, when the A. C. Nielsen company tallied up the season's results, CBS jumped to first place with ratings of 13.8, up from 12.3 the year before. Each rating point represents 921,000 households.
 
 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
Solid Gains in Housing
 
Falling interest rates stimulate the entire economy, but not all at once. It takes six to nine months, economists say, before the effects of rate cuts wend their way through the system. Those effects have now made it to the housing industry. The Commerce Department said Housing starts increased 6.4 percent in March, the fourth monthly increase in a row. "Unlike last year's false start, I think we are finally going to break out of the economic weakness we have been in since 1989," said David Berson, chief economist at the Federal National Mortgage Association.

Bit of a Stumble for Retail Sales
 
The nation's retailers, heady from two months of sharply rising sales, got a dose of reality last month. Retail sales slipped by 0.4 percent in March, the Commerce Department said last week. Though it was a stumble, most economists agreed it was no cause for alarm. "The recovery is not faltering," said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial in Pittsburgh. "The retailers were just coming off two strong months."

Riding the Exports
 
Exports are one of the strongest sectors of the economy. They helped bring the trade deficit down to $3.38 billion last month, the Commerce Department said last week. That was the smallest deficit in nine years.

 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
U.S. Rice Still on the Boil
 
The rules were stiff, to say the least. American rice could be displayed at last week's Great American Food Show in Tokyo, the Japanese Government said, as long as it wasn't cooked, tasted or removed from the bags. But those restrictions were not enough to please Japan's politically potent farmers (voting rules heavily favor Japan's rural districts). Last week a group of farmers picketed the show demanding that American rice be kept out of Japan. "The U.S. says they displayed American rice for our education," said one protester. "But Japan has a 2,000-year history of rice-growing, while the U.S. has only done it for a few decades. We have nothing to learn from them."
 
Japan's Invincible Surplus
 
Rice imports or not, Japan's trade surplus with the rest of the world keeps growing -- even after decades of trade tiffs and negotiations. Last month, Tokyo had its largest monthly surplus ever. According to the Ministry of Finance, Japan exported $10.99 billion more than it imported in March, a 23 percent increase from the year before. One-third of that surplus was with the United States. The culprit now, economists say, is Japan's recession. Demand for imported goods has tumbled along with economic growth. "Imports kept declining due to weak domestic demand amid economic slowdown," said Hisashi Inoue, chief economist at the Nikko Research Center in Tokyo. "Japan's trade surplus is likely to stay at a high level this year." That means tensions will continue.

Gorbachev's Aid Data Redux
 
When advisers to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former President of the ex-Soviet Union, said $100 billion in economic aid was needed to turn things around, gasps could be heard in the world's capitals. Mr. Gorbechev backpedaled quickly, saying that number was just a ballpark estimate. But last week, the figure reappeared. Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Russia and the republics would need $44 billion this year and $100 billion over the next four years from the World Bank, the I.M.F. and the world's richest governments. But where did he get that number? "It's the same figure Gorbachev used," said Vladimir Kvint, a Russian expert at Fordham University. "It was arrived at from a very bad study . . . and without any feasiblity study."

All Gaul, Divided in Two Parts
 
When it comes to the United States, the French are divided. They love hardcore Americana: McDonald's hamburgers are very big in Paris. But they also want France to stay French. Last week, when the Walt Disney Company opened Euro Disneyland outside of Paris, those two commitments collided. The park was filled even as French intellectuals derided it as a "cultural Chernobyl." Allan Finklekraut, a writer, said it was a "a terrifying giant's step toward world homogenization." With ticket prices at $40 for adults and $27 for children, with 100 million people a short drive away, that giant step may prove profitable. "If they bring their children to Disneyland, they'll have a good time," Michael D. Eisner, Disney's chairman said about the France-for-the-French critics.
 The article also referred incorrectly to another product, Clearly Canadian. It is a carbonated, sweetened water, not a wine.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report on the Business Diary page last Sunday about a colorless soft drink from Pepsi-Cola misstated the context for a comment by Jesse Meyers, publisher of Beverage Digest. In saying, "The brown goods are dying," Mr. Meyers referred to the hard-liquor market, not soft drinks.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Caterpiller strikers vent their rage. (Associated Press); The big earners are at the left. (Associated Press); Mickey Mouse (Associated Press); Crystal Pepsi.
 
Graphs track Japan's global trade surplus, April 1991-March 1992 (Source: Datastream); percent change in total monthly housing starts, March 1991-March 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept.); U.S. trade deficit, seasonally adjusted, March 1991-Feb. 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (94%); CATR (PAR) (94%); CAT (SWX) (94%); CAT (NYSE) (94%); PEP (NYSE) (83%); BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); 0293 (HKSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (94%); PEPSICO INC (83%); BOEING CO (82%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (88%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (87%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); BOTTLED WATER (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); SOFT DRINK MFG (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (72%); ROYALTIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



628 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: All About/Equipment Leasing;
Persuading People to Rent More Than Just Videos

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Equipment rental companies, whose crazy-quilt inventories often range from industrial air compressors to lawn mowers to fine china, have long dreamed of weaning consumers from their traditional preference for buying goods. But for years, the business was dominated by mom and pop outfits that failed to forcefully market themselves as an option for people who needed tools for repairs or silverware for parties.
In the last decade, though, the industry has consolidated and bigger companies with extensive operations are now aggressively preaching the gospel of renting, employing advertising campaigns and sales techniques adopted from retailers. 
 The shift in strategy has contributed to strong growth, with revenues for the industry -- which excludes rentals of housing, cars, billboards and office space -- increasing from $6 billion in 1982 to $20.8 billion in 1990, according to the American Rental Association, a trade group with 6,000 members.
"The whole idea of a rental transaction has become more familiar," said Chris Fletcher, editor of Rental Equipment Register, a monthly magazine that follows the industry. "The pride of ownership is not what it had been," he said.
The surge in the 1980's, received an added boost in 1986, when Congress abolished the investment tax credit as part of the Tax Reform Act. Investment tax credits permit businesses to subtract directly from their tax bills a percentage of the money they invest in plants and machinery. After the law went into effect, many companies concluded that instead of buying, they were better off renting from one of the 12,000 rental outlets in the United States.
 
Why Customers Rent
For the Convenience And Expertise
 Why rent instead of buy?
Many contractors have no alternative. They must rent heavy machinery because they do not have the capital to purchase it or they need it only occasionally. Some homeowners might also fall into this category.
But the choices may not be so stark for many customers, even after the costs are compared. That is why many equipment rental companies emphasize convenience and the extra services they provide: training to operate complicated machinery, delivery, long-term maintenance, fuel and computerized accounts to help executives manage operations.
As a result, most rental outlets set aside space for more than just equipment. At the Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, a subsidiary of the car rental company that specializes in serving contractors, outlets have offices, fuel tanks, a 6,000- to 10,000-square-foot building for repairing equipment and enough open space to accommodate $3 million to $12 million in merchandise, as well as tractor-trailers for deliveries. Hertz has 84 equipment rental locations in such cities as Newark, Miami and San Diego.
The staff must be familiar with such popular items as backhoes (which rent for $195 to $275 a day), small air compressors ($70 a day) and dump trucks ($160 a day).
Equipment rental operations that specialize in smaller wares like power tools and party goods require less space, but they usually try to maintain a large inventory because they fear alienating customers if they are out of items.
Industry executives say this concern points to an important aspect of their business: many people are still unfamiliar with renting, so first impressions are important.
"That's really the key, making them know what's available," said Michael C. Kupperman, president of Acme Tool and Equipment Rental, which has two outlets, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and in Staten Island. "A lot of people just don't know the scope of what's there."
 
Recession-Proof Myth
The Downturn Is Hurting This Time
 Many industry executives used to maintain that the rental business was immune to recessions. Based on past experience, they reasoned that though some customers might have less money to spend in a downturn, others would find that it was cheaper to rent than buy. And some homeowners might conclude that they save money by doing their own work with rented tools instead of hiring carpenters or other tradespeople.
But this recession has been different.
With housing starts and other construction down around the nation, many contractors have cut their rentals more sharply than expected.
Revenues at the Prime Equipment Company, which has 66 outlets catering to contractors and refiners in 10 Sunbelt states, declined 18 percent last year to $200 million, said Thomas E. Bennett, its president. At Hertz, revenues from equipment rentals dropped about 10 percent to $225 million, after growing an average of 22 percent a year from 1982 through 1990.
Smaller companies and independent businesses have suffered as well, particularly in the Northeast and Midwest, where the recession has been most severe. And lately, revenues in California have begun to sag.
"Clearly, our whole category of the small contractor has been hit pretty directly," said Dick Dandurand, president of Taylor Rental, a subsidiary of the Stanley Works Corporation that has more than 300 outlets.
Party goods -- like silverware, large coffee makers, tents and costumes -- have performed well despite the recession, leading many outlets to expand in this area while cutting back on other goods.
 
The Retail Mind-Set
Using Advertising To Find Converts
 That many consumers remain unfamiliar with renting was driven home by a Gallup Poll in 1990 that found that only 38 percent of respondents had ever rented equipment.
Neighborhood rental outlets have long relied almost solely on the Yellow Pages to market themselves. But many companies are now exploring other ways, including advertising on cable television and in local newspapers and direct mail solicitations. They are also computerizing their operations and using their data bases for marketing analysis and to insure repeat business.
"We can give them reports that tell them exactly what they are using," said Mr. Kaplan of Hertz. "They can assure themselves that the equipment they have is being 100 percent utilized."
The industry has discovered that many consumers first learned about renting from video rental stores. Many companies are trying to build on this awareness by educating the public that renting a wheelbarrow is just as easy as taking out a copy of "Fatal Attraction" for the night.
But even industry stalwarts believe they face a challenge.
"Culturally, the American public is still accustomed to retail," said James R. Irish, executive vice president of the American Rental Association. "Trying to get the public to think in terms of renting the correct piece of equipment to get the job done -- that's a concept that still needs to be seeded."
 
 
 
AVOIDING LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS
 Equipment rental companies delight in stocking a variety of goods. But lately, many are shying away from some items because of growing liability expenses.
Rental outlets across the country have been stung by lawsuits filed by people who were injured using rented equipment. Many companies are now so wary that they refuse to stock items that they consider particularly dangerous, like powder-activated nail guns, which use gun powder blanks to shoot nails into concrete, and acetylene blow torches.
American Rental Centers, which has seven outlets in Connecticut, no longer rents small boats and canoes because it is worried about accidents, said Dave Edwards, the company's operations director.
"Liability is always a major concern," said Michael C. Kupperman, president of Acme Tool and Equipment Rental, which has two outlets, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and in Staten Island. "Insurance is a high cost for equipment and full instruction is mandatory for the customer."
The Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, one of the nation's largest rental concerns, began a safety program two years ago that focuses on training construction workers in proper use of machinery. The program has "dramatically decreased" the number of accidents caused by Hertz's equipment, said Daniel I. Kaplan, its president.
Other companies are also focusing on ways to limit mishaps.
"You have to work hard to make sure you have excellent equipment and the maintenance is good," said William F. Berry, president of U.S. Rentals, which specializes in serving contractors. "Otherwise, the defense can be very, very expensive."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on the "All About" page last Sunday about equipment leasing misstated rental rates for backhoes at the Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation. Hertz rents backhoes for $175 to $200 a day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael C. Kupperman, president of Acme Tool and Equipment Rental, shows customers how to use equipment from his Brooklyn store. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "You Want It, We Got It," tracks estimated revenues for the U.S. rental industry, 1982-1990 (Source: American Rental Association)
 
Table: "That'll Run ...," lists costs for a variety of items. (Source: American Rental Centers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: HERTZ EQUIPMENT RENTAL CORP (63%); AMERICAN RENTAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN RENTAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RENTAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN RENTAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RENTING AND LEASING; FINANCES CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INCOME TAX (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); TAX REFORM (65%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



629 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Rafsanjani Sketches Vision of a Moderate, Modern Iran

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, April 17

 BODY:
Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani would like to be seen as a thoroughly modern mullah.
The Iranian President studies economic issues at least two hours a day, gets CNN in his office and speaks English perhaps even better than his Berkeley-educated brother. Although he holds the title of Hojatolislam -- one rank lower than Ayatollah -- he sprinkles his speeches and sermons with statistics, not quotations from the Koran. 
 Like George Bush, he likes to cut through his administration's bureaucracy by picking up the phone, calling his ambassadors abroad and fellow heads of state like Turgut Ozal of Turkey and Helmut Kohl of Germany at odd hours of the day and night.
 
The State Builder
 "His ideal is to bring Iran to the highest level of its economic, industrial and cultural potential," said Mohammed Hashemi, the President's younger brother, who runs the country's official radio and television. "He's in for the struggle."
If the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini was the austere revolutionary determined to smash the old regime, Mr. Rafsanjani is the state builder, just as determined to create institutions that will restore the country to a position of power in the region.
Interviews with close associates before and after parliamentary elections on April 10 made clear that Mr. Rafsanjani's most pressing goal is to convince the world that he is a mature, reliable leader of a vital nation that is ripe for foreign investment and loans -- one bent on meeting the economic needs of its people, not political expansion.
But it would be wrong to characterize Mr. Rafsanjani as a Western-style leader ready to cast off his clerical robes at the earliest opportunity.
His Government is constrained by revolutionary purists who accuse it of betrayal. The regime has long been accused in the West of sponsoring terrorists, including the kidnappers of foreigners in Lebanon, although the intercession of Mr. Rafsanjani is credited with helping to free the remaining American hostages.
Since he became President, perhaps thousands of Iranians have been executed, including drug offenders, opposition guerrillas, Communists, Kurds, Bahais, even clerics. And his Government has refused to rescind the death sentence imposed in February 1989 by Ayatollah Khomeini against the writer Salman Rushdie for supposedly blaspheming Islam in his novel "The Satanic Verses."
The tension in the Rafsanjani Government between the impulses of extremism and moderation are perhaps best illustrated by the comments of the President himself.
In a sermon in December, Mr. Rafsanjani called for "prudence" in domestic and foreign policy, "so that we can have a presence and help people without being accused of engaging in terrorism, without anyone being able to call us fanatics."
Yet just this week, in an indication of the continuing political risks of being too closely aligned with the West, Mr. Rafsanjani said in his Friday sermon: "The West is drumming up confusion and pandemonium in their newspapers by saying that after these elections, the Government of Iran will become more and more Westernized. That is a lie."
Elected to a four-year term as President in 1989 with 95 percent of the vote, Mr. Rafsanjani appears to be headed toward another major electoral victory in parliamentary voting, in which he engineered the candidate-selection process to exclude some of his most troublesome opponents.
If the results of the first round of the elections last week are echoed in next month's runoff, he will enjoy a clear majority in the legislature, a development that will present him with a strong mandate to pursue his reforms and the most important challenge of his political career.
"So many changes have occurred so far, and more major things are yet to come," said Mohsen Adeli, the American-educated director of the Central Bank and a close ally of Mr. Rafsanjani. "Of course, it depends on how society can absorb it, and the more it can, the more we will introduce our policies."
A senior official in another ministry put it more bluntly.
"The country has become corrupt and the people are losing their spirit," the official said. "They have sacrificed for too long. Rafsanjani is the last chance."
To date the results of Mr. Rafsanjani's efforts have been inconclusive. Since the end of the Persian Gulf war, his country has re-established or improved relations with a number of European, Middle Eastern and Asian countries but has failed to attract much foreign investment or many foreign loans.
Mr. Rafsanjani, 57 years old, is an agile politician who speaks like the people, not like the religious aristocracy, and knows how to cajole, amuse, lecture, threaten and sway. He sometimes seems to feel confined in his clerical garb, pushing his turban back on his forehead and pulling up the sleeves of his robe as if they somehow constrain him. He has been known to burst into tears in mid-sermon, as he did when he spoke about Iraq's use of chemical weapons during the long border war.
Perhaps his most adroit maneuver came the day after a little-known Beirut newspaper in November 1986 broke the story of the illegal American arms sales to Iran, a revelation that was just as embarrassing for Teheran as it was for Washington.
Mr. Rafsanjani faced the nation at Friday prayers the next day, saying that the arms were needed for the war effort, but that the American envoys had been rebuffed. They had brought a cake in the shape of a key as a gesture of friendship, but Iranian security men "got hungry and ate the cake," he joked to the laughter of the crowd.
He did not tell the faithful that one of the channels with the Americans was via a close relative, by many accounts his nephew Ali Hashemi Bahramani.
 
Pistachio Business, Religious School
 Unlike Ayatollah Khomeini and his successor as Iran's supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Mr. Rafsanjani comes from a religious family of merchant-farmers, not clerics. He cannot claim to be a direct descendant of the Prophet Mohammed, and therefore must wear a white, not a black, turban.
One of nine children, he grew up in the tiny village of Bahraman, about 40 miles from Rafsanjan in the southeastern desert. He was given the name Ali Akbar, after one of the first martyrs of Shiite Islam, and used the family name Hashemi. When Reza Shah, the father of the Shah deposed by Ayatollah Khomeini, tried to rationalize the country's family names by requiring the people to use the name of their towns, the name Rafsanjani was added.
It was there amid the cotton and wheat fields that he first developed an appreciation of capitalism, and even when he was preaching Islamic revolution, he depended on the farm's income and helped the family to acquire real estate. Although his mother still lives in the house of baked clay in a "simple way," according to his brother, the farm is now a vast pistachio enterprise managed by another brother, Ahmed, and the Rafsanjan Pistachio Producers' Cooperative has a number of branches overseas.
As a boy, Mr. Rafsanjani attended the local religious school and was a particularly active soccer player and wrestler. At age 14, he was sent to study Islamic jurisprudence in the holy city of Qom. As a student of Ayatollah Khomeini in the 1960's, he became steeped in the revolutionary view that it was the duty of the clergy to oppose Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and the heretical Western corruption that he represented.
Although the President's sense of humor contrasted sharply with the dour demeanor of his master, he entered politics as a militant follower of the Ayatollah's rebellion against the Shah's white revolution. And although clerics were exempt from military service, the authorities punished Mr. Rafsanjani's preaching by drafting him into the army. When he began preaching to his fellow conscripts, they dismissed him.
During the 1960's and 1970's, he was imprisoned several times for his political activities -- in 1964, for example, for his alleged involvement in the assassination of Prime Minister Hassan Ali Mansour. In 1967, he wrote a biography of Amir Kabir, the 19th-century reformist Prime Minister of the Qajar Dynasty, in which he praised his efforts to modernize Iran, a curious subject for a cleric.
"I was constantly in jail in those years," he said in an interview in 1980. "I was arrested more than 10 times. I was forbidden to write and preach. One winter night I was tortured from night until morning."
 
An Early Choice of Pragmatism
 During the revolution, he was a member of the ruling Revolutionary Council, a secret inner circle that made policy, and was one of the founders of the now-defunct Islamic Republican Party.
As speaker, he became so popular that chador-clad women would gather outside the five-story, white-marble Parliament building to chant, "We want Hashemi."
From the earliest days of the revolution, Mr. Rafsanjani has seemed to favor pragmatism over ideological oratory. In 1980, when Iranian leaders were demanding the return of the exiled Shah after the capture of American hostages at the United States Embassy in Teheran, Mr. Rafsanjani offered an interesting solution to one reporter.
"If the Shah dies, that would help," he said.
Shortly thereafter, the Shah died of complications caused by cancer.
As Ayatollah Khomeini's personal representative on the Supreme Defense Council, which made war policy during the Iran-Iraq war, and briefly as commander in chief of the armed forces, he is credited with helping to convince the revolutionary leader to end the eight-year war.
According to Ataollah Mohajerani, an aide to Mr. Rafsanjani, the clearest example of his pragmatic approach to policy was Iran's neutrality in the Persian Gulf war and its aftermath. Even when Iraq attacked rebels in the Iraqi city of Kerbala, one of the holiest centers of Shiite Islam, slaughtering residents and damaging the sacred shrines, Iran did not intervene, despite the revolutionary principle that Islam has no borders.
 
Enjoying Support of Spiritual Chief
 In recent months, Efat Marashi, Mr. Rafsanjani's wife and the mother of his five children, has begun to emerge as a public figure and a modern first lady. On the day of the election for Parliament, she voted along with him -- wearing jeans and a short-sleeved blouse under her black chador.
She has begun to host social events for foreign visitors, and in December accompanied her husband on official visits to Senegal and the Sudan.
Recently she stunned the wives of foreign ambassadors when she held a reception for them and turned up in Western dress, her hair stylishly coiffed. Her words of welcome and private conversations were translated into English.
"She looked just like any normal hostess, and was very refined, speaking about Belgian chocolates and things like that," said one ambassador's wife.
One of his biggest challenges will be to satisfy hard-liners like Ali Akbar Motashemi, the former Interior Minister and an enemy of Mr. Rafsanjani who in a news conference in early April referred to those favoring an "open-door policy and free-market system" as "rightists" who "either want to obliterate the revolutionary process or to make it fade away."
Mr. Rafsanjani is helped along by his close working relationship with Ayatollah Khamenei, who has frequently come to his rescue. Just before the parliamentary election, for example, the spiritual leader abandoned any sense of neutrality and told the people to support "their hardworking and popular President," a ringing endorsement that enraged Mr. Rafsanjani's hard-line opponents.
Mr. Rafsanjani has to steer a steady course between those in his entourage who want to press forward quickly with dramatic economic changes like unification of the exchange rate and Islamic purists who may turn to terrorism either at home or abroad if they feel they no longer have a stake in the system.
"A revolution in which people are not involved with not survive," he once said when talking about the need for satisfying the people.
Or as Ayatollah Ali Hussein Montazeri, the one-time heir apparent to Ayatollah Khomeini, put it before he was shunted aside, "If we don't tolerate listening to views opposed to our own, those opposing remarks will soon be turned into bullets."
 The article spoke of "tension in the Rafsanjani Government between the impulses of extremism and moderation"; the headline summarized Mr. Rafsanjani's stance inaccurately.
Because of an editing error, the article also misidentified the director of the Iranian Central Bank in some editions. He is Mohammed Hussein Adeli.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Sunday profiled Iran's President, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. In late editions the headline said Mr. Rafsanjani had sketched a vision "of a moderate, modern Iran."
As the article noted, Mr. Rafsanjani appears to be trying to reach out to foreign investors and to show the world that he is a reliable leader. At the same time, he has said he does not seek to "Westernize" Iran, and he has continued harsh revolutionary policies and has refused to rescind the death sentence imposed against the writer Salman Rushdie for "blaspheming" Islam in his novel "The Satanic Verses."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (Saba) (pg. 1); Members of an Iranian army unit marching past Government and military leaders yesterday in Teheran. the parade was in celebration of Army Day. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISLAM; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RELIGION (91%); TRENDS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (85%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (61%); WRITERS (60%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: RAFSANJANI, ALI AKBAR HASHEMI (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



630 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Airfare Cuts Weaken the Industry. . . And Mislead the Flying Public

BYLINE: By DONALD L. PEVSNER; Donald L. Pevsner is an attorney and aviation consumer advocate in Miami.

 BODY:
THE old shell game isn't only used at carnivals. It is alive and well in the airline industry, and consumers are bearing the burden.
On April 13, led by American Airlines, most of the major domestic airlines implemented several important pricing reforms. But the new fares only look good when compared with the unbridled rapacity of what they have replaced. 
 After domestic airline pricing was deregulated on Jan. 1, 1985, the cost of unrestricted fares skyrocketed. Today, the unrestricted one-way New York-London fare costs $1,042, up 430 percent over its 1964 equivalent, but closely tracking inflation because international "on-demand" fares continue to be regulated by the Transportation Department. By comparison, the New York-Cleveland fare cost $302 until April 13, a 1,056 percent increase over its 1964 equivalent and a rate of increase nearly two-and-a-half times that of a typical international fare.
Congress' short-sighted and gullible deregulation of domestic airline pricing is to blame. Taking 38 percent off a fare that is two-and-a-half times too high to begin with, as occurred on April 13, is a classic version of the old shell game.
Ironically, most major airlines lost money last year despite these high unrestricted fares because their excessive level alienated the essential business traffic necessary to offset the bottom-of-the-barrel excursion fares offered to some leisure travelers. Also, millions of leisure travelers were turned off by onerous cancellation penalties, unreasonable advance purchase deadlines and other restrictions. It is a pity that these unimaginative major carriers did not follow the lead of Southwest Airlines. By charging dramatically less than all other majors in all fare categories, Southwest kept its planes full and made $27 million last year, while American lost $240 million.
Another example of the shell game is the airlines' use of nonrefundable tickets. Travelers used to be able to afford fully refundable tickets valid for travel on short notice and on any day of the week, with no onerous Saturday-night stay-over restrictions or advance-purchase deadlines.
But since 1986, most affordable domestic excursion tickets have been nonrefundable -- one of the more odious creations of Frank Lorenzo, former chairman of Continental and Eastern Airlines. When passengers decided that risking hundreds of dollars wasn't acceptable and stayed home instead of traveling, the oppressive airlines finally got the message. On April 13, excursion fares became exchangeable for a reasonable $25 fee if travelers' plans change. But draconian 100 percent cancellation penalties should never have been permitted in the first place, and were a direct result of Congress's abdication of its duty to protect the public. Belated, partial equity masquerading as a pro-consumer gift is one more version of the shell game.
What about the present level of excursion fares? In November, 1991, the New York-Miami seven-day advance-purchase, round-trip fare cost $340 on most major carriers. Then, the price increased to $559, and travelers stayed home in droves. On April 13, this fare "dropped" to $380. Anyone for the old shell game?
The actual systemwide airline cost of a round-trip New York-Miami seat (with a 65 percent load factor) is about 13.9 cents a mile, or $304. A generous 5 percent markup would create a total fare of $319. Even the new 21-day advance-purchase fare in this market is $320. This means that everyone except the 21-day-advance passenger is being gouged under the new "bargain" fares of American Airlines and its imitators.
American's chairman, Robert L. Crandall, initially proposed a new fare structure with only two fare categories: the new 38 percent off, unrestricted fare ($310 one-way, New York-Miami, or 28.4 cents per mile: more than twice American's cost), and the 21-day advance fare. Result: people who couldn't plan their trips 21 days in advance would be relegated to the high-priced seats or left behind. But this avaricious ploy did not fly, so a seven-day advance fare has been added. At 17.4 cents a mile New York-Miami, the price is still too high -- though temporary reductions in seven-day advance fares to Florida apply between April 23 and June 14 on Continental Airlines, TWA and USAir. But on-demand fares within Florida have doubled or tripled under the new fare scheme.
How can the nation finally extricate itself from the utter failure of deregulation, and protect itself against further predation when excess capacity shrinks and economic conditions improve? The only sure way is for Congress to promptly restore Section 404(a)(1) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to the domestic arena, and for the Department of Transportation to compel the Act's mandate of "just and reasonable" fares on domestic routes, as it has never ceased to do on international routes. Tell your Congressman and Senator to do it now, or vote them out in November. In the meantime, watch out for the old shell game.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald L. Pevsner (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (51%); NEW YORK (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES NEW YORK (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; NYTRAVEL; DISCOUNT SELLING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AIRLINES (96%); AIR FARES (93%); DEREGULATION (92%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); 

PERSON: PEVSNER, DONALD L CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



631 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: For Sikhs, 15,000 Strong, Prosperity in A New Land

BYLINE: By JOYCE JONES

 BODY:
THE women will wear bright silk dresses, trimmed with gold. The men, their beards and mustaches carefully combed, will be in suits and turbans. They will park their cars in the comely suburb of Bridgewater and, 3,000 strong, enter the huge cream-colored building topped by domes.
Today in Bridgewater and at temples in Glen Rock and Deptford, as their neighbors celebrate Easter and Passover, the Sikhs will observe Vaisakhi, marking the day when Gobind Singh, the 10th and final prophet, established the discipline of Khalsa, through which the faithful can aspire to the ultimate state of purity. 
 As they worship, and during the meal that follows -- the langar, where legumes and yogurt will be served -- the Sikhs may look back over a remarkable decade. Their numbers in New Jersey have doubled, to more than 15,000. They have prospered as few immigrant groups before them. In spite of their differences in background and appearance from their neighbors, and in spite of the hostility many other Asian Indians have encountered in the state, the Sikhs have won a large measure of acceptance.
 
Many Forms of Acceptance
 That acceptance takes many forms. Some are official: last year, Gov. Jim Florio called upon the state to celebrate Nov. 21 as the birthday of Guru Nanak, the founder of the religion. Two months ago, the first Sikh was appointed to the Governor's Ethnic Advisory Commission; he is Arjit Mahal, a computer analyst.
But there are more meaningful signs of the Sikhs' achievement. The election of 18-year-old Kanwarpreet Saluja as president of his senior class at West Windsor-Plainsboro High School, for example. Or the absence of Sikhs from the public assistance rolls. Or the fact that a third of the gasoline stations on Route 22 are owned by Sikhs, according to Jerry Ferrara, executive director of the New Jersey Gasoline Retailers Association.
The Sikhs themselves tend to attribute their success to their adherence to the tenets of their religion, which requires that they work hard and support one another in times of need. But the religion also demands behavior that sets the Sikhs apart from their neighbors. Hair, as a God-given part of the body, is never to be cut or shaved, for example, and marriages are to be within the religion, often arranged by parents.
When Rajbikram Nayar enrolled in the New Providence school system in 1979, his long black hair was knotted in a bun at the top of his head. Fearing that the boy would be ridiculed, his father, Parabhsaran, and an uncle, Dr. Harbhajan Nayar, accompanied the youngster to school.
The principal assured them that all his pupils were "different" in one way or another and would "have a day" of being an outsider, Dr. Nayar recalled. Rajbikram Nayar is now a 21-year-old junior at Rutgers University, and he echoed the principal's views: his appearance has not held him back.
In fact, Mr. Saluja, the senior class president, thought his turban might have been an advantage. "The average person may see a Sikh once in their lifetime," he said. "When you do something good, he'll remember that."
 
Universal Brotherhood
 The Sikh religion dates to the 15th century when the founder, Guru Nanak, preached monotheism and universal brotherhood. The focus of the religion is the Guru Granth Sahib, the Holy Book, a compilation of the teachings of the 10 gurus.
In the cavernous room called the darbar, where members of the Bridgewater temple worship, the Holy Book rests on a small bed on a raised platform, the only objects in the room. Today, upon entering the temple, the members will remove their shoes, the women will cover their heads with scarfs and all will bow before the Holy Book.
Meanwhile, in another room, their children will be studying Sikh history and music and their native language. At the end of the worship service, the children will join their parents in the darbar to sing verses from the Holy Book.
It was Gobind Singh, the 10th guru, who in 1699 called upon his followers to wear turbans; he also required that they take military training to defend their land from invasion. Sikh soldiers have played a major role in the British and then Indian armed forces.
In modern India, militant Sikhs have fought for the independence of Punjab. Many of the Sikhs who have settled in New Jersey left India, they say, because of human rights violations in their native Punjab and the economic opportunities in the United States.
 
Insistent on Own Identity
 Unlike some other Asian Indian immigrant groups that are clustered in sections of Middlesex, Bergen and Hudson Counties, the Sikhs are scattered, and they are insistent on their own identity.
"People hear Asian Indian," said Mr. Mahal, the member of the Ethnic Advisory Commission, "and they clump us together. Our cultures in India are as diverse as those in the Soviet Union. Just as there are Ukrainians and Latvians, in India, Hindu, Muslim and Sikh cultures coexist."
He added, "Because we are successful, we don't regard ourselves as second-rate citizens, nor do we feel discriminated against."
The only exception, Mr. Mahal said, has been during periods like the war in the Persian Gulf, when some Americans "were provoked to believe that all turban wearers are the same."
Richard Gannon, the director of external affairs in the Governor's office, said of the state's Sikhs: "Economically, they are doing reasonably well to very well. In return, they have given back to the state with generous support to charitable organizations."
 
Jobs in a Variety of Fields
 The Sikhs hold a variety of jobs, but many are doctors, scientists and engineers with advanced degrees. Others work in construction and manufacturing, own restaurants or are owners or attendants at gasoline stations.
At the dozens of Sikh-owned stations, pricing policies differ. Sohan Singh Clottia, who owns a Shell station on Route 17 in Ridgewood, said it has been his policy to keep his prices one cent higher than those of his competitors, to reassure other operators that he is not trying to usurp their business.
On the other hand, Hardyal Singh Johal, who owns eight gas stations throughout the state, said: "I tell my competitors, 'I will undersell you.' I love competition. It is in the blood."
When the Johals first arrived in New Jersey, they had trouble finding an apartment. Working three jobs at once, Mr. Johal said, he was able to buy his first house within six months.
Why did he choose the gas station business? "Because when I started pumping gas, I had contact with the public," he said. "They could get to know me and see that the Sikhs were honest, disciplined, God-fearing people."
Mr. Ferrara of the Gasoline Retailers Association described the Sikhs as "fiercely independent and very hard working." Some negative reaction from competitors may result when a Sikh owner lowers the price of gas, Mr. Ferrara said, but they are generally regarded as good businessmen.
 
Marriages Often Arranged
 Sikhs by and large do not believe in marriage outside their religion, and that often leads to arranged marriages. Mr. Johal has a 25-year-old daughter, Navdeep, who has a master's degree in computer science from the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken. Without informing her, Mr. Johal placed an advertisement in Punjabi newspapers, inviting medical students to apply as prospective husbands.
Some 300 men answered the ad, and Mr. Johal and his wife traveled to India to review the list. A selection was made, their daughter went to meet her husband-to-be in Punjab, a long-distance correspondence began, and on April 6, wearing a bright red dress, she wed Bikramjit Singh Sandhu.
Though she was upset at first by her father's actions, she said before the wedding, she was now pleased.
Mr. Johal said that an arranged marriage had worked well for him and that the commitment had eventually led to love.
 
Students' View of Life
 Recently a group of students from the West Windsor-Plainsboro schools talked about growing up as Sikhs in America.
Jaskaran Grewal, 14, said there had been some difficult moments. "I'm on the basketball team," she said, "and at games we wear shorts and sleeveless shirts. My teacher helped, explaining to my teammates my religious feelings about shaving hair."
Sapreet Saluja, 16, emphasized the positive. "I think not cutting our hair has made us stronger," she said. "Our friends are mesmerized by it. They ask things like, 'Aren't you going to have trouble not stepping on it?' "
In keeping with the Sikh belief in sharing with others, the students travel to New York City once a month where, as members of a three-state youth group, they serve homemade sandwiches to the homeless.
The youths praised their religion's teachings. "It's amazing," Miss Saluja said, "that so many years ago, the gurus fostered equality among men and women. They preached against intoxication and smoking. Our diet has always been healthy. Today, many people are just beginning to believe these things for the first time."
 
 
 
A Matter Of Acceptance
 In 1955, when Dr. Harbhajan Nayar, vice president of the New Jersey Sikh Association, was 17 years old and about to leave India to study in the United States, he feared that he would not be accepted in a new land. His father sensed his concern.
Dr. Nayar recalled: "My father asked, 'Do people live in America?' I answered, 'Of course.' He replied, 'Well then, 70 percent of your worries are over.' I didn't know what that meant.
"He continued: 'People are children of God. They must eat and sleep; they have feelings and disappointments. Yes, there are differences, but don't let the differences overshadow the similarities. If you are in trouble, go to the nearest person for help. If he can't help, go to the second person. If that fails, I guarantee the third person will offer you assistance.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Bridgewater Sikh temple during worship, above and below at left, and during the langar, the meal that follows worship, top. The state's Sikh community has doubled in the last decade and has prospered as few immigrant groups before it. Below at right, Sohan Singh Clottia at his gas station on Route 17 in Ridgewood (pg. 1); Members of the Sikh temple in Bridgewater as they socialized after a service. The Sikh temple in Glen Rock. Many of the Sikhs who have settled in New Jersey left India, they say, because of human rights violations in their native Punjab. (pg. 5) (Photographs by Chet Gordon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SIKH ASSOCIATION NEW JERSEY GASOLINE RETAILERS ASSOCIATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SIKH ASSOCIATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SIKHS (SECT); FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS SIKHS & SIKHISM (96%); RELIGION (89%); EASTER SEASON (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); PASSOVER (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); GASOLINE (63%); GAS STATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: JONES, JOYCE; NAYAR, HARBHAJAN (DR) ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



632 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Budget Vise Squeezing Teachers On Wages

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
TEACHERS in Fairfield narrowly agreed to a wage rollback if the town would pass the school budget they endorsed. But when the budget failed before the Finance Board, they withdrew their offer.
"We have been attacked in the newspapers, and the school board meetings have gotten pretty vicious," said Peggy M. Morris, president of the local teachers union, the 514-member Fairfield Education Association. "I would advise teachers in other towns not to even consider givebacks. It has caused tremendous hard feelings. It's been a very ugly period." 
 The Fairfield Finance Board did not intend to scuttle the agreement, said its chairman, Edward V. Crowley Jr. But he added that a cut of $300,000 in a budget of more than $16 million did not seem excessive.
 
Explosive Combination
 "It's very difficult to explain to people, when they're not getting raises, when they're being laid off, when they're losing their house to foreclosure, why one class of municipal employees is getting a 7.3 percent increase," Mr. Crowley said.
School budgets are being drawn up around the state, and at the same time 112 teacher contracts are up for renewal or newly negotiated. The combination has been explosive. Taxpayers are turning out for school board meetings, demanding that teachers' wages be rolled back. The teachers, meanwhile, are digging in their heels, and members of school and finance boards are often caught in the middle.
The Connecticut Association of Boards of Education recently released a study showing that contracts settled in February contained an average teacher salary increase of less than 3.5 percent, less than half of the average two years ago. Wages have been frozen for the 1992-93 school year in at least eight districts -- Eastford, East Lyme, Plymouth, Stonington, Union, Plainfield, Westbrook, and East Hartford.
At Joel Barlow Regional High School, which serves Redding and Easton, teachers recently agreed to accept a raise of 5.9 percent for next year, instead of the 7.9 percent they had negotiated. They will also take two unpaid days and pick up more of their health insurance costs. The concessions saved the district more than $140,000.
"The danger is not only to wages but to programs," said the president of the Joel Barlow Education Association, Randy R. Potter. "The bottom line is, we're in the worst economic situation we've ever been in. You have to balance progress for the profession against survival for the town."
The school business manager in Plymouth, Steven Kopcha, said an agreement to freeze wages allowed the school board to present a budget with no increase, for the first time in his 23 years. "The town really appreciates what the teachers have done," he said. But in other towns there is considerable resentment about the results of the state Educational Enhancement Act, which was supposed to attract better candidates to teaching by encouraging better training and higher salaries.
The chairman of the Board of Education in Bloomfield, Nicholas D. Caruso Jr., said that when the town agreed to finance higher teacher salaries, the decision was based on state promises that aid would increase every year. But the town has been told its state aid for next year will decrease by $2.1 million, almost 10 percent of its budget.
The board has cut 20 of its 58 classroom assistants and 8 teachers for next year, after losing 22 teachers this year, Mr. Caruso said. And because teacher retirement benefits are based on the three highest paid years, most of the older teachers have put off retirement until they have a few years under the new wage scales.
"We've just laid off all those bright, young, innovative teachers we've brought into the system under the Educational Enhancement Act," Mr. Caruso said.
Mr. Caruso said people should be upset at the state government for cutting aid, or at the Federal Government for piling on expensive educational mandates. "But people know there's no way of fighting the state or Federal Government," he said. "So people go where they can have influence. And people can vote down my budget."
The executive director of the school boards association, Terry P. Cassidy, said, "All districts are facing hideous problems this year." This is reflected by the large number of school board members who have decided to give up their posts. "As I talk with school board members, they tell me they're frustrated, and they don't want to continue," he said.
 
Nation's Highest Salaries
 Cliff Silvers, director of affiliate services for the Connecticut Education Association, the state's largest teachers union, with 30,000 members, said: "The pressure is out there. But most of our locals have taken the position that their contracts are in place, and they're not going to make any changes."
Six years ago, when the Educational Enhancement Act was signed into law, teachers in Connecticut were ranked 18th in the nation terms of pay; today they are ranked first.
The state's average teacher salary this year is $47,300, 8 percent higher than a year ago and $2,575 more than that of second-place Alaska, according to statistics released by the National Education Association. Connecticut's average is well above the national average of $32,977 and more than double that of South Dakota, lowest among the states, at $23,300.
"In 1986, when the Educational Enhancement Act went through the legislature, there was pretty general agreement that teachers' salaries had to be raised," said Ron Katz, senior research associate for the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council. "But we ended up with a much larger increase than anyone expected. It's time to slow down the rate of increase."
Mr. Katz and others blame much of the increase on binding arbitration, which allows teacher contracts to go before a panel of three members, one chosen by the school board, one selected by the teachers and a neutral appointee from the state. The two sides submit their last best offers to the arbiters, who are supposed to consider contract awards in neighboring towns in reaching a decision about which to approve.
Bridgeport went to binding arbitration with an offer of no salary increase, when the city's teachers were demanding 5 percent, Mr. Katz said. In a town that had declared bankruptcy, that was laying off employees in every department, the arbiters picked the teachers' package, he said.
 
A Political Issue
 "Binding arbitration has become a convenient mechanism to blame for any problems in the system," said Thomas P. Mondani, executive director of the Connecticut Education Association. He said teachers were scapegoats for the state's economic problems.
"If teachers' raises are cut, that isn't going to bring the Seawolf submarine back," Mr. Mondani said, referring to the loss of military programs that have devastated much of Connecticut.
"People who run for elective office don't run on the pledge that they're going to raise taxes, so they say, 'Teachers shouldn't get paid so much,' and the issue takes on a life of its own," Mr. Mondani said. "Teachers are unfairly singled out as a cause of the problem.
"Or what happens is the boards are saying, 'Well, we can pay you, but we won't have anything left for books,' drawing a connection that just isn't fair."
In the Redding-Easton school district, Mr. Potter said that perhaps the union agreed to concessions in part because no one tried to blame the other side for the problem.
"If you try to bring someone to the table with the shotgun approach, it's not going to work," he said.
 
Resentful Teachers
 Mr. Potter said Joel Barlow High School has won two national awards for excellence, including a Presidential citation, in part because townspeople have supported education so heavily. Now that the economy has taken a downturn, the teachers decided to help the towns, he said.
In towns where the giveback campaigns have failed, it could be a long year. In Fairfield Ms. Morris said the vote to reopen the teachers' contract was 153 to 146, and only after setting the condition that the town had to continue all programs and provide for no layoffs. When the Finance Board cut the proposed budget another $300,000, the offer was declared void.
"Teachers resent how they're being treated," Ms. Morris said. "We're being asked to subsidize the Board of Education budget out of our paychecks."
Though teachers in Connecticut are the highest paid in the country, Mr. Mondani pointed out that the state's per capita income is the highest, too. Teachers have the same cost of living as everyone else in the state, he said. Connecticut is also an urban state, he said, where schools face problems of drugs, crime, homelessness and other social problems.
"Basically, what people want is for teachers to be dedicated, which is another way of saying they should work for nothing," Mr. Mondani said. "That's not going to happen to teachers today, nor should it have ever happened. That's not to say teachers don't care for their students. But they have their own families to raise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FAIRFIELD EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



633 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Stockbrokers Are Catering To First-Time Investors

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
AS Wall Street rejoices over what has turned out to be a better-than-expected first quarter, so do stockbrokers in Westchester. Like their parent firms in Manhattan, branch offices in the county are enjoying what many are calling a boom.
To cash in on the good times and remain competitive with their city counterparts, local brokerage houses are offering a special dividend these days: face-to-face contact between the broker and the client -- what some describe as relationship-selling and others say is hand-holding in a time of economic uncertainty. 
 "The perception used to be that the best brokers were in Manhattan," said Marc E. Komorsky, a first vice president at the White Plains branch office of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. "But a lot has happened on Wall Street since Black Monday, and clients feel they need a broker they can trust.
"What clients don't want anymore is to do business on the phone. The days are gone when a customer would call up and say, 'Buy me whatever.' It's a different psychology now."
 
A Record Number of New Accounts
 There are those who, having lost money in the October 1987 crash, say they will never be investors again. But there are also new groups of individuals cautiously approaching the stock market for the first time who want a better return on their money than a traditional savings account offers.
Brokerage firms in Westchester reported that new customer accounts were up almost 20 percent last year over 1990, and that trend appears to be continuing this year.
For those first-time investors -- among them Baby Boomers who have decided to forgo spending for savings and executives forced into early retirement as a result of companies' downsizing -- brokers said that a personalized selling works best.
"It may have been a record quarter on Wall Street," said Jill Gabigan, branch manager for Dean Witter in White Plains, "but for us at the branch, it was also a record number of new accounts."
That first-time investor "is a customer who needs some hand-holding," she said. "The process of investing is not a one-shot deal."
 
Brokers Make Hours More Flexible
 To meet the needs of the new clientele, investment brokers have adjusted their working hours, often meeting customers in the evenings. By living and working in the county, the brokers said, they could afford the luxury of a flexible schedule because they were not tied to a train schedule for the ride home from Wall Street to the suburbs.
"I chose to live out here because I didn't want to take all those hours off my life commuting," Mr. Komorsky said. "Now it's like going back to the days when I first started in the business. I'm working a lot of overtime again, meeting clients three and four nights a week.
"But in this economy, I have found that what works best is relationship-selling. And that means plenty of one-on-one contact at the client's convenience."
At the Windmill Group in Armonk, Frederick Adams, a broker, said that investment firms in the suburbs have "everything that brokers on Wall Street have except the high overhead."
"As a result," Mr. Adams said, "there is less pressure on us to push stocks on the customer. We can take the time to sit down and discuss what the trade-offs are."
Although there are a variety of factors at work, the drop in interest rates paid by banks to savings depositors appears to be the key force driving the heightened stock market activity in recent months, brokers said.
"Lower interest rates have historically been rocket fuel for stock and bond investments," said Peter W. Adolph, also a first vice president at Smith Barney.
In addition to lower interest rates -- which last week were as low as 3 percent on passbook savings, depending on account balances, and 3.45 to 5 percent on certificates of deposit, depending on the term chosen -- there are other factors, including a perception by the public that banks are faring poorly and the question of whether depositors' money is safe. Surprisingly, Mr. Adolph said, among those turning away from banks are the elderly. After the stock market crash of 1929, he said, many put their money in a savings account and swore they would never again invest in the market.
"But Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones are now saying, 'My can of Campbell's soup is costing more and the interest on my savings is down. I need an alternative,"' Mr. Adolph said.
At the other end of the spectrum, he said, are the 25- to 30-year-olds, who "would ordinarily be out buying Corvettes and boats" but have decided to save. "What the yuppies would have seen as disposable income to spend is being invested now. We've never seen that before."
Whereas the previous decade was characterized by flamboyant spending, the current one appears to be harking to a more conservative life style, to values centered on the home and family, brokers said.
Ms. Gabigan, describing trends at work, said: "The Baby Boomers are coming into their late 30's and early 40's now. They realize they have been spending money all these years and they don't have any savings for their children's college or for their own future."
 
Cautious Attitude Toward Investing
 But also, she said, the high number of relatively young retirees who have contributed to the record number of new accounts at Dean Witter's White Plains office may be a phenomenon restricted to the county.
"With Westchester being such a corporation-rich area, we are seeing many retirees who have been forced out by their companies, and these individuals have to do some long-range planning," she said. "Some of them are exercising their stock options and want to diversify. And all of them have to get the best return on their dollar now for the years ahead."
While there is considerable optimism that the economy will finally experience a decisive upturn and that the stock market will continue its healthy activity, the same conservatism that is prompting an interest in saving money for the future is resulting in a more cautious attitude toward investing across the board.
"It's not only the older people who are thinking conservatively," said Richard L. Reach, president of R.L.R. Capital Management in Pound Ridge. "Investors may be desirous of a better return on their money than the banks can offer, but they still want to avoid taking too much risk."
 
'Nobody Is Gambling'
 Mr. Reach, who manages money for corporations and individuals, added: "We are seeing the risk-averse, the defensive investor; and we are seeing those who are willing to take a little more risk for a better return.
"But nobody," he said, "is gambling their money. People are a lot more hesitant than they were a few years ago."
Mr. Adams, who was skeptical that the current stock market boom would last, said his small brokerage firm was advising eager investors to be "very, very cautious" because the market may have gone as far as it can go.
If a recovery is coming, he said, interest rates have probably hit bottom, and they could be going up again. And if interest rates go up, the stock market will go down, Mr. Adams said.
Mr. Adolph said that if history is any indication, Wall Street will continue to move ahead at a healthy pace because Presidential election years have traditionally been good for the stock market.
All the brokers agreed that much of the economic forecasting amounts to something more than looking into a crystal ball and something less than a precise science. Mr. Komorsky suggested that an old saying might serve others well: "Bulls make money and bears make money, but pigs get slaughtered."
"The best advice," he added, "is to stay away from hot money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc E. Komorsky, foreground, and Peter W. Adolph, vice presidents at the White Plains branch office of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, speaking with clients. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS SECURITIES BROKERS (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); DIVIDENDS (73%); TRENDS (72%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); SUBURBS (60%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA ANDREW SMITH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



634 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 34; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
A Little House on the Prairie Goes to a Museum

BYLINE: By Witold Rybczynski; Witold Rybczynski, co-designer of the Grow Home, a small-house prototype, teaches architecture at McGill University.

 BODY:
The only existing prototype of Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion House, which has served as a family residence in Wichita, Kan., since 1948, will be moved next month to the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, a national museum of American history and technology in Dearborn, Mich. The museum is planning to restore it to its original form at least by 1995, in time for the centenary of Fuller's birth. For the first time in almost 50 years, the public (and this critic) will be able to visit the house that might have revolutionized the American house-building industry.
The Dymaxion House looked like a flying saucer, but it was an affordable flying saucer, and the public loved it. Media coverage was intense. During the seven months after October 1945, when the first prototype was built, there were more than 37,000 unsolicited orders; the factory was prepared to produce 60,000 houses a year; Fortune magazine predicted that the "dwelling machine" would produce greater social consequences than the introduction of the automobile and estimated that as many as 250,000 houses might eventually be sold annually; and the publicly traded stock of Fuller Houses doubled in value. Buckminster Fuller, who had been, until then, best known as an unsuccessful automobile designer, seemed destined to enter history as the man who put America, if not on wheels, then into them. 
 It was not to be. Despite the widespread publicity, or perhaps because of it, conflicts arose among the financial backers of the project. Most wanted to move ahead and start production immediately. Fuller, then 50 years old, had endured two business failures, and, on the brink of success, he turned uncharacteristically cautious. He demanded more time for research and development, and resisted all the efforts of stockholders, friends and supporters to put the Dymaxion House on the market. In the end, the delays and wrangling proved fatal. Lacking the $10 million required to tool up for production, Fuller Houses collapsed.
Why put the Dymaxion House in a museum? The British architectural critic Martin Pawley has called it the "house of the century," and it was undoubtedly a remarkable technical accomplishment -- the most sophisticated prefab ever. The Dymaxion House, which is also known as the Wichita House and which Fuller called the Dymaxion Dwelling Machine, was certainly machinelike. The aeronautical impression was heightened by its streamlined shape and unpainted aluminum skin. The domed roof was capped by a huge rotating ventilator that looked like a tail fin -- it insured the natural circulation of air within the interior. The panoramic windows were made of curved sections of acrylic, riveted in place.
Inside, under the 18-foot-diameter dome, there was a large living area with a fireplace, a kitchen and two pie-shaped bedrooms, each with its own compact bathroom. The house had a centralized vacuum cleaner system, which was a novelty in 1945, and such space-saving features as revolving closets and electrically operated roller cupboards.
Panacea or sci-fi fantasy? Visitors to the restored Dymaxion House will be able to decide for themselves. What they will not see, but what made the house unique, was the method of its manufacture. The pieces of the house were made entirely in a factory and were engineered (mostly out of aluminum) to be extremely light -- they weighed about 6,000 pounds -- and were compact enough to be shipped disassembled in a single cylindrical container.
No part in this kit weighed more than 10 pounds, and the house could be erected in one day by six workers. Mass production had another dramatic advantage: the retail price of a finished house, in 1946, erected anywhere in the United States, was claimed to be $6,500, or about $46,000 today.
But it must be judged a failure, at least compared to Wallace Byam's Airstream trailer, for example, which dates from 1937 and remains in production today. Moreover, although the design of the Dymaxion House was unusual, it was not influential: neither its roof ventilator nor its rotating closets were ever replicated, and whereas Fuller guessed correctly that lightweight aircraft materials could be used in house construction, he didn't anticipate aluminum siding.
Unlike the 1934 Chrysler Airflow, a streamlined car that was ahead of its time and is said to have influenced Porsche's design of the Volkswagen, the Dymaxion House was not a harbinger. In the early 1950's, when factory-built houses finally became a reality, they took a very different shape -- not an elegant flying saucer but an ungainly shoebox on wheels: the mobile home.
Perhaps the chief lesson of the Dymaxion House is to be found elsewhere than in its unusual design. With the end of the cold war there is much talk of a "peace dividend," but it is far from clear exactly how military factories will be converted to the production of civilian goods; this question was precisely what impelled the development of the Dymaxion House.
In 1944, it was apparent to the labor movement that the boom in wartime industries, like the war itself, would not last forever. The president of the International Association of Machinists, which represented aircraft workers, invited Fuller, then employed at the Federal Board of Economic Warfare, to present his ideas on industrialized housing to the workers and management of the Beech Aircraft Corporation. As a result, Beech agreed to devote part of its Wichita plant and some of its workers to the development of a factory-built house.
Despite the popular image of individualistic American know-how, Fuller was no Lone Inventor; the Dymaxion House was the product of a collaboration between labor, industry and government. Labor, in this case, took the lead, and industry responded. The government had been the client for Fuller's earlier foray into industrialized housing -- the so-called Dymaxion Deployment Unit -- which had given him the experience necessary to undertake the more ambitious Dymaxion House. And it was the United States Army Air Corps that ordered the first -- and as it turned out the only -- two prototypes (the second was never assembled), thus providing the impetus necessary to get the singular project off the ground.
It is worth reflecting on the chemistry that produced the Dymaxion House, and on the way the industrial technology that had produced fighter planes was adapted to produce better and cheaper houses. It happened once, it could happen again.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dymaxion House in 1946-The pieces, mostly of aluminum, were extremely light (they weighed about 6,000 pounds) and compact enough to be shipped in a cylinder (at left); the house could be assembled in a day by six workers. (Buckminster Fuller Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HENRY FORD MUSEUM (DEARBORN, MICH) NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (58%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HENRY FORD MUSEUM (DEARBORN, MICH) NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (58%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (93%); WICHITA, KS, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (50%); 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD; FULLER, BUCKMINSTER HENRY FORD II (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



635 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: 'Fiendish' Was Not Too Strong a Word

BYLINE: By Russell F. Weigley; Russell F. Weigley, the Distinguished University Professor at Temple University, is the author of "The Age of Battles: The Quest for Decisive Warfare From Breitenfeld to Waterloo."

 BODY:

SOLDIERS OF THE SUN
The Rise and Fall of the Imperial Japanese Army.
By Meirion Harries and Susie Harries.
Illustrated. 582 pp. New York:
Random House. $30. 
 As part of their repudiation of their warlike past, the Japanese rarely study the history of the Imperial Japanese Army. Among historians in Japan, the few who specialize in military history are even more isolated from other academic historians than are their Western counterparts. "Soldiers of the Sun" pleads for a reversal of such attitudes in both Japan and the United States. It argues that war and armed forces in general cannot be controlled unless they are studied and thus better understood. It also contends that the Imperial Army in particular was so closely bound to the Japanese people that it must be studied to understand Japan's future as well as its past.
Meirion Harries and Susie Harries, the authors of "Sheathing the Sword: The Demilitarization of Japan 1945-52," have lived in the Far East and have interviewed numerous veterans of the Imperial Army. Moreover, they have made good use of Japanese archives and histories, although the Japanese documentation that survived World War II is limited enough to require them to rely largely on the reports of Western observers.
The authors show sympathy for the Japanese, acknowledging, for example, that the extraordinary commitment of resources and energy to the army was a virtual necessity, from the inception of the Imperial Army in the 1870's and 1880's well into the 20th century, if Japan was to fend off Western imperialism. Nevertheless, while they are hardly Japan bashers, much of the history they narrate is so ugly that the reluctance of the Japanese to confront this part of their past becomes thoroughly understandable.
THE record of the Imperial Japanese Army is one of addiction to aggression, exacerbated by its habit of exceeding the instructions of the Government. From its first modern conflict with China in 1894-95 through the climactic Chinese war of 1937-45 and the Pacific Ocean war with the United States, the army increasingly gave itself over to atrocities that have cumulatively made its name as infamous as any in military history, including the German Army of 1939-45.
Sometimes with cruel haphazardness but often systematically and with strategic purpose, the Imperial Japanese Army tortured and slaughtered prisoners of war and the unlucky civilians in its path. It destroyed farms and factories either with deliberate intent to curb its enemies' economic growth or just for the hell of it. It entered the narcotics business on a massive scale, especially in China, with the goal of enervating an entire people. It practically enslaved Korean women (and also many Japanese women) to be its prostitutes.
The army's laboratories engaged in biological warfare experiments on human subjects that were altogether deserving of the melodramatic adjective "fiendish." Ultimately, with the China and Pacific wars irretrievably lost, it persisted in the struggle at the cost of vast, useless suffering for the Japanese people themselves -- in malnutrition, starvation and disease even apart from the Americans' bombing -- and many of the army's leaders wished to push the struggle even farther.
Mr. and Mrs. Harries attempt to tell us why. Their detailed narrative confirms their call to the Japanese that this segment of the past must be faced if Japan is ever to have a mutually intelligible discussion with other nations about its place in the world. Within the authors' argument, nevertheless, there is an apparent contradiction. This might have been better resolved if they had done somewhat more to set their Japanese study in the context of world military history.
They say that the Imperial Army was sufficiently an army of the people that the roots of its conduct must be sought among the Japanese at large. But they also emphasize that the army was so much a state within the political state that its condition verged on autonomy, a separation from the rest of the nation. To the extent that the second statement is true, then the crimes of the army were its own, and there is a certain justification in the current Japanese disposition to deny direct responsibility for its actions.
A partial resolution of this issue can be approached by suggesting that the institutional separateness of the Imperial Army as a state within a state did not have the same effect it had or would have had with a Western army. The Prussian and German Army from 1815 through World War II can serve as an example. That army enjoyed an autonomy comparable to the Japanese Army's, but with a greater gulf between the soldier on the one hand and the state and the people on the other. The reason was that in Prussia and Germany the political separation of the army was reinforced by an ethos of professionalism among the officers. In the Imperial Japanese Army, officership never developed into a full-fledged profession as it did in the West.
The officer corps of Western armies in general have been separated from the civilians around them by a professional value system that makes for civil-military tensions even in democracies such as the United States and Britain, where the army is not a state within a state. In Japan, by contrast, the value system of the officer corps was probably a modification -- and, as Mr. and Mrs. Harries aptly point out, in some ways a debasement -- of the code of the samurai.
Japanese officers were not so much professional soldiers as warriors. While the distinction may be subtle, it surely implies fewer restraints upon violence. And this warrior ethic was sufficiently shared by the Japanese nation to compensate to a considerable degree for the otherwise separate status of the army.
To suggest that a comparative view of other armies might well have enriched Mr. and Mrs. Harries's book is not to deny the impressive wealth of information and analysis in it. More than one book will be required to explore the subtleties of the relationship between imperial Japan and the Imperial Army. Meanwhile, "Soldiers of the Sun" offers the most readable introduction to the special qualities of the Imperial Japanese Army and to the sources of its especially appalling history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SOLDIERS OF THE SUN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (66%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (52%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (55%); IMPERIAL JAPANESE ARMY (84%); IMPERIAL ARMY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL JAPANESE ARMY (84%); IMPERIAL ARMY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (66%); PACIFIC OCEAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS HISTORY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); WRITERS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TORTURE (65%); WOMEN (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: WEIGLEY, RUSSELL F; HARRIES, MEIRION; HARRIES, SUSIE SUSIE HARRIES (61%); MEIRION HARRIES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



636 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Plan by Dinkins Would Open All Libraries 5 Days a Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Finding a silver lining in a dismal budget, Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday proposed a $23.4 million increase in spending for the city's crippled libraries over the next two years to restore five-day-a-week service at all 205 branches of the New York, Queens Borough and Brooklyn Public Libraries.
The libraries -- a safe haven after school for 100,000 children of working parents, a gathering place for older people and the cultural heart of many neighborhoods -- have been forced by Draconian budget cuts during the Dinkins administration to limit service at 141 branches to two, three or four days a week. 
 Described by Mr. Dinkins as one of his top priorities, the plan will be submitted to the City Council next Monday as part of the Mayor's $29.4 billion 1993 budget. Aides said it would be paid for with nickle-and-dime cuts in many municipal departments and not with another large whack of the budget ax.
 
Swift Approval Predicted
 The Mayor's proposal was immediately applauded by City Council officials, who predicted swift approval, and by officials of the independent but largely city-financed library systems, who said they hoped with the new money to restore weekday service at all branches by the summer of next year.
"Libraries are truly one of New York's precious jewels," the Mayor said in announcing a plan he clearly hoped would be popular with tens of thousands of New Yorkers. "Keeping them open at least five days a week is one way of making sure our city continues to shine."
The plan appeared to be a shrewd political move for a Mayor who faces re-election next year and who has been hurt virtually from the start of his administration by hard economic times and the constraints of stingy budgets.
Harvey Robins, the Mayor's director of operations who helped to develop plans for the city's expense budget, said the additional $23.4 million for libraries would be sought for the next two years -- $7.8 million for fiscal 1993, starting next July 1, and $15.6 million more for fiscal 1994, starting July 1, 1993.
The increases would raise city contributions to the three library systems to $128 million next year and to $135 million for 1994. That would, in effect restore the city money available to the 1990 level. Budget cuts in the first two years of the Dinkins administration had left the library systems with $120 million this year. The cuts led to reductions in staff and book acquisitions and in hours and days of service at branches.
The new money, according to the Mayor's plan, would be allocated among the three library systems according to their relative needs in restoring five-day service to all their branches. Each of the libraries would submit plans to a mayoral panel headed by Barbara J. Fife, the Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development. The panel would consult with the City Council and the Borough Presidents in making the allocation decisions.
Marc Shaw, the City Council's finance director, praised the Mayor's proposal and predicted swift approval by the 51-member Council, which called two weeks ago for restoring $18 million in library funds to bring back five-day branch services next year and seven-day services by 1995. "It's going to get a very positive reaction from everybody," Mr. Shaw said.
Library officials also responded enthusiastically.
 
'Marvelous News'
 "It's great -- it's marvelous news," said Dr. Timothy S. Healy, president of the New York Public Library, which serves Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island with 82 branches and four major research centers. "Let us kiss the Mayor on both cheeks and go out and vote for him several times."
Dr. Healy said the libraries, in campaigning for a restoration of the five-day week, had stressed "the very serious fact that the branches of all three systems are part of the education of kids," about 100,000 of them the children of working parents who must allow their youngsters to go home alone after school when the branches are closed. "You come to any library after 3 o'clock on a school day and you'll find wall-to-wall kids," Dr. Healy said.
Mimi Koren, director of public relations for the Queens Borough Public Library, which has 62 branches and a major center, also applauded the proposal. "We're very happy to hear about the Mayor's plan to restore funds to the libraries," she said. "The libraries affect more New Yorkers than any city-funded service, and we're glad the Mayor has recognized New Yorkers' needs for libraries."
Larry Brandwein, director of the Brooklyn Public Library, which operates a central library and 59 branches, could not be reached for comment last night.
New York City's public libraries, organized in the late 19th century and expanded in the early 1900's with grants from Andrew Carnegie, have always been neighborhood centers and portholes to adult literacy, especially for immigrant populations, as well as extensions of household and school life for children.
Though they are independent, the library systems are largely financed by the city, with some money coming from philanthropic and public contributions and fund-raising efforts by the libraries. The New York Public Library gets about 40 percent of the city funds, with the rest split between Queens Borough and Brooklyn Public Libraries.
The libraries sustained heavy cuts in the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, and had not fully recovered when, in 1990 and 1991, the Dinkins administration was forced to impose new cuts.
While no branches were closed, as library officials had feared, 141 of the 205 branches in all three systems, or 69 percent, had to be cut back to less than five days of service a week. These cuts affected 77 of 82 branches in the New York system, 18 of 63 branches in Queens Borough and 46 of 60 branches in Brooklyn.
Currently, 17 branches (11 in Brooklyn and 6 in Queens) are open two days, 84 branches (37 in the New York system, 35 in Brooklyn and 12 in Queens) are open three days and 40 branches (all in the New York system) are open four days a week, according to city officials.
Mr. Robins, the operations director, said the Mayor had indicated in budget meetings months ago that restoring five-day library service would be a top priority, and to avoid major cuts elsewhere in the budget he asked department heads to look for small reductions in discretionary spending.
"For example," Mr. Robins said, "with the work force being reduced in earlier budget cuts, there was less need to purchase furniture and supplies in various city agencies. It amounted to taking dollars away from these areas and giving them to the libraries."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (86%); NEW YORK (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (86%); NEW YORK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); QUEENS (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LIBRARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (77%); PARENTING (77%); CHILDREN (76%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



637 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Economic Watch;
Those Big Executive Salaries May Mask a Bigger Problem

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
It's nice work if you can get it. The $86 million paycheck that Coca-Cola's chairman, Roberto C. Goizueta, received last year is apparently the highest ever awarded for a year's labor. And with the market at a record high, dozens of other chief executives are expected to receive multimillion-dollar packages built around stock bonuses.
Is America's corporate leadership overpaid? In a defense that will no doubt be echoed by many of his peers, Mr. Goizueta suggested that his $83 million stock bonus was small change compared with the $50 billion increase in the market value of Coke shares during his decade-long tenure. 
 But such reasoning raises skepticism among those who think chief executives are no more than employees of the stockholders. Would Mr. Goizueta (pronounced go-SWET-a) have given less than his best if he had been paid one-tenth as much, asks Graef Crystal, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley and prominent analyst of executive pay.
Some experts on corporate governance think that seven-figure pay is not a real issue, but a symptom of deeper ills in the executive suite. The more important question, they say, is whether corporate directors hire the right people to run the company and dismiss them when someone better is available to fill their shoes.
 
The Cost of Poor Performance
 Jeremy Stein, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said it should not have mattered to General Motors stockholders whether Roger B. Smith was paid $10 million more or $10 million less while he presided over G.M.'s long decline. What mattered a lot, in Mr. Stein's view, was the failure of G.M.'s board to replace Mr. Smith as the company tottered from humiliation to humiliation.
It is not surprising that most people see the executive pay issue in terms of fairness. The average pay of chief executives of large companies more than doubled in real terms in the 1980's, while profits rose just 19 percent and factory wages fell. That has led Congressional critics like Representative Martin O. Sabo, Democrat of Minnesota, to call for tax penalties on companies that allow executive pay to balloon out of proportion to blue-collar wages.
It is worth noting, too, that top American executives are more highly paid than their overseas counterparts. Professor Crystal has estimated that the chief executives of the biggest United States companies typically made $3.2 million in 1990, compared with $1.1 million in Britain; $800,000 in Germany and $525,000 in Japan. But foreign executives sometimes receive other generous rewards, like expensive club memberships in Japan.
But economists are inclined to put efficiency ahead of the equity of it all. At the heart of the problems facing the large modern corporation, many of them believe, is the paradox of "managerial capitalism." The true owners of a corporation, the shareholders, have no direct say in its operations. And when they dissapprove of managerial performance they have strong incentives to sell the stock rather than fight for internal changes.
Thus, if managers are to be persuaded to act in the interests of those they represent, said Prof. Kevin Murphy of the Harvard Business School, "it's crucial to use executive compensation to mimic the incentives of ownership." And there is no better way, he added, than to link pay to the ups and downs of share prices.
Mr. Goizueta's package apparently fits the description, at least on the up side of the equation. But Mr. Crystal asserts that relatively few corporate bosses can claim that their hefty salaries are in fact pay for a job well done.
 
Return to Stockholders
 Mr. Crystal compared executive compensation with the total return to stockholders for 450 large corporations and found that just 5 percent of the statistical variation in pay could be explained by variations in corporate performance. "The most common reference used by compensation committees must be a table of random numbers," he said.
Professor Stein worries, however, that huge paychecks are distracting from far more pressing issues of corporate governance. He says that directors generally do not replace bad managers until the executives have done enormous damage. And they rarely have the information or incentives to pick the best executives in the first place. In short, he concluded, "there is no market" for chief executives.
New research by John Kotter and James Heskett at the Harvard Business School indicates how harmful such foot-dragging may be. Their book, "Corporate Culture and Performance" (Free Press, 1992), focuses on 10 companies that succeeded in improving overall performance by making major changes in how the company functioned.
There was, of course, no single formula for success. The companies -- which included Bankers Trust, General Electric and Nissan -- did have something in common distinguishing the winners from corporations that tried and failed to change: All 10 brought in outsiders, managers who had not spent a career immersed in the corporate culture that they were pledged to change.
This finding suggests that the key to getting managers who really earn their millions is to increase the independence and professionalism of corporate boards. One way to do so is to increase both the number and authority of directors who are not employees of the corporation, and thus not under the thumb of the chief executive.
Such reforms in corporate governance were advocated by Ira Millstein, a New York lawyer who advises the outside directors at General Motors and reportedly engineered the demotion this month of the company's president, Lloyd B. Reuss, as well as the humbling of Mr. Smith's successor as chairman, Robert C. Stempel. Taken to its logical end, the Millstein model would put a wall between directors and managers. Managers would serve only as advisers to corporate boards, which would draw upon their own members for leadership.
But independence is an elusive concept. Outside board members may be tied to managers by friendship or compromised by financial dependence on present or prospective decisions by managers. A university president who is an outside director, for example, may look to the chief executive for donations or cooperation in laboratory research.
Even when directors see themselves as truly independent, notes Professor Kotter of Harvard, they may be so immersed in the culture of the executive suite that they are the last to recognize the symptoms of management failure. In this light, it is hardly comforting that 63 percent of the directors in a survey of 282 companies by Fortune magazine were chief executives.
Another path to holding executives to high standards of performance is to draw owners into the process. But most large stockholders are institutions: mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies. Only a few of them -- notably the California Public Employees Retirement System -- have shown any inclination to put their mouths where their money is.
That situation is understandable and, by implication, difficult to change: it is no more in the interest of a fund with a broadly diversified portfolio of stocks to put time and energy into running individual companies than it is for Denmark to invest in its own nuclear deterrent.
In any case, Professor Kotter argues, it is far from clear that putting institutional owners on boards, or otherwise involving them in corporate direction, would improve corporate governance. There are enormous pressures on institutions, he notes, to beat the market during a quarter or a year. Thus, the thrust of their effort might well be to improve short-term corporate earnings -- a consequence that should probably not be welcomed.
There seems to be no magic bullet for fixing what ails America's corporate management or reining in managers who, some contend, have effectively captured control of companies they do not own. But these critics might still take modest comfort in the occasional nod toward self-discipline. As Mr. Goizueta pointed out to shareholders last week, Coke's board had the authority to award him a bonus twice as large.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large paychecks to some executives like Roger B. Smith, left, of General Motors, and Roberto C. Goizueta of Coca-Cola have raised the question of whether America's corporate leadership is overpaid. (Thomas S. England) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); GERMANY (67%); ENGLAND (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); GERMANY (67%); ENGLAND (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER GRAEF CRYSTAL (78%); ROBERTO C GOIZUETA (74%); JEREMY STEIN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



638 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The early reports of first-quarter earnings may support the contention of many executives that American businesses may be far healthier than the public believes. Many of the companies that have reported so far have shown results far exceeding what Wall Street analysts expected. [Page D1.]
Multimillion-dollar pay packages for executives have aroused a furor, but many experts think they may be beside the point. They say it is more important that corporate boards hire strong managers and fire weak ones when necessary. Economic Watch. [A1.] 
 Alan Greenspan takes great pains to be circumspect in his public utterances to prevent his remarks from setting off an unwanted market reaction. To this end, he says, he has learned to "mumble with great incoherence." [D1.]
President Bush and European Community leaders meet this week to try to break the deadlock in global trade talks. But even a modest breakthrough seems possible only if the White House orders negotiators to make concessions on farm subsidies. [D1.]
Kuwait is laying the groundwork to get a larger OPEC quota as it steadily rebuilds the oilfields destroyed by Iraq. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
Hollywood would seem to be the place for publicity to flourish, but the big studios are struggling with bloated, seriously flawed operations. Public Relations. [D1.]
Every year thousands of authors challenge the book industry and publish their own work. Over the years, many authors have found success on their own, although few to the extent of Craig Zirbel, whose book on the John F. Kennedy assassination has been on The New York Times best-seller list for eight weeks. [D11.]
Playboy magazine is staying faithful to its tradition, says its new executive editor. It remains a men's magazine but it is also concerned with issues, Kevin Buckley says. [D11.]
Chevy Chase was signed by 20th Century Fox for a late-night talk show, starting in the fall of 1993. The move is a big gamble by Lucie Salhany, the new head of television productions. [D11.]
Amid growing competition in women's fashion magazines, Hachette begins its most extensive and costly trade and consumer campaign yet, for Elle. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D12.]
Time Warner and Madonna will form a $60 million entertainment company to produce the singer's works. [C11.]
 
Companies
Few companies have tried as hard as Hughes to use their expertise in the weapons business to entirely new ends to find a place in the post-cold-war world. Long one of the nation's premier suppliers of sophisticated military electronics, Hughes is trying to remake itself as a technology company capable of moving nimbly into commercial markets. [D1.]
Arnold Hiatt, chairman of Stride Rite, is leaving his job to devote himself full time to the company's philanthropic foundation. Ervin Shanes is expected to be named his successor today. [D1.]
Hyundai Electronics is moving its operations to Silicon Valley in California. The leading South Korean maker of personal computers is trying to keep up with the industry's breakneck pace. [D3.]
Credit card purveyors are on the prowl for new features to set themselves apart amid furious competition. Citibank is planning to put photographs of customers on its cards; other inducements, like travel insurance, no longer impress customers. [D3.]
 
Today's Columns
Stock prices keep rising despite negative indicators. Now the bears have picked up support from the Leuthold Major Trend Index. Floyd Norris: Market Place.[D8.]
The steady slide in interest rates over the last three years has prompted a rising number of companies to redeem billions in outstanding debt issued when rates were much higher. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WRITERS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); CARTELS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); BESTSELLERS (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (62%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (52%); PHILANTHROPY (50%); 

PERSON: MADONNA (70%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



639 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Increases In Earnings

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Early indications are that much of Corporate America managed to wring better-than-predicted profits out of meager overall economic growth in the first quarter.
The steady drumbeat of earnings reports at or over the high end of analysts' estimates -- from companies as diverse as I.B.M., Coca-Cola, Sears and Alcoa -- helped drive the Dow Jones average of 30 large-company stocks to record highs last week and lift stock prices in general. But economists say there may be important longer-term effects from the reports as well. 
 "Earnings have a huge impact on business confidence at the levels where spending and hiring decisions are made," said David Blitzer, chief economist for the Standard & Poor's Corporation, which analyzes corporate financial strength for the bond market. "Some new projects that were on hold because of concerns about funding are now likely to be put on the active pile."
 
Scaled-Back Expectations
 Analysts said the positive surprises were partly a reflection of how much Wall Street scaled back its expectations last year as the economy struggled to emerge from recession. But at least some of the gains seem to bear out the claims of executives who have been arguing for some time that much of American industry is far healthier than the public believes.
"I'm not surprised at the profits we are seeing, given the way people cut back employment and improved productivity to a greater degree than most people recognized during the recession," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
Economists agreed, but cautioned against reading too much into the figures. "It shows that business is fundamentally healthier than people thought six months ago, but I'm not sure what it tells us about the strength of our economy," said Lawrence Kudlow, economist for Bear, Stearns & Company. "A lot of the economically sensitive commodity prices seem to be slumping down again. That troubles me."
Analysts had been projecting a big jump in reported profits for many companies in the first quarter, even though it was clear that the economic recovery was slow and uneven to date. Such industries as airlines and railroads had been hit hard a year earlier when the Persian Gulf war sent fuel prices skyrocketing. Many other companies, including banks, brokerages and those with heavy debt loads, benefited from interest rates that were much lower this year than in the first quarter of 1991.
In addition, some companies had taken large one-time write-offs or spent heavily in the first quarter of 1991 to cover the costs of closing or selling unprofitable operations, increased severance pay for layoffs or inducements for employees to retire.
All these companies were bound to look much more profitable in comparison, with even a fragile economic recovery. But analysts had apparently been reluctant to count much on an extra boost from productivity gains.
"I think analysts understand, but they wanted to wait and see before building it into their estimates," said Carol B. Coles, president of Mitchell & Company, a market research firm in Weston, Mass.
Mitchell's analyses indicate that companies that have relied primarily on cutting employment to cut costs tend to enjoy only short-lived gains. But Mrs. Coles said the recession had unleashed a great deal of creative effort to improve productivity, by means other than simply eliminating employees, that should have a lasting effect.
The profits, along with such statistics as rising exports, point to a large improvement in the worldwide competitive position of most American industries, Mr. Jasinowski and other economists said. The United States actually has a substantial trade surplus, if autos and oil are stripped from the statistics.
 
Historic Standards
 But the operating profits, like the economic recovery, remain weak by historic standards. The International Business Machines Corporation, for example, earned $595 million, or $1.04 a share in the first quarter, up from $556 million, or 97 cents a share, leaving aside the negative effect of a one-time charge of $2.26 billion a year earlier for an accounting change on pension liabilities. This year's profits, however, are well below those of the last decade, when first-quarter earnings ranged from $1.30 to $1.97 a share.
A few companies, like Apple Computer, cited strong sales of new products as a reason they did better than expected. Many forestry companies had stronger sales than analysts expected. Coca-Cola was among those that did better than expected overseas. But many economists and analysts remain worried about how well new products from companies like I.B.M. and the Digital Equipment Corporation are selling, and about the general level of economic demand.
In addition, the small-business sector is still having an unusually tough time earning money. The quarterly survey of small businesses by the National Federation of Independent Business always shows more of them reporting earnings declines than gains in the first quarter, compared with the fourth quarter of the previous year. But this year's margin -- with 42 percent reporting declines and only 15 percent showing gains -- is larger than usual.
"It's not that they aren't well prepared," said William C. Dunkleberg, the Temple University Business School dean who oversees the survey. "There were just too many businesses created in the 1980's, particularly in retailing."
Unless there is a more robust recovery, the survival prospects for many of those businesses and the potential profitability of industry in general is still painfully limited.
 
'You Have to Sell More'
 "Restructuring only carries you so far, and sooner or later you have to sell more," said Raymond Worseck, director of economic research at A. G. Edwards Inc., a St. Louis securities firm. Mr. Worseck, who thinks the economy will weaken in the second half and grow only 2 percent for the year, said that nothing in the stronger-than-expected quarterly results had diluted his pessimism.
Mr. Worseck and those who have a similarly cautious outlook may find themselves on the defensive if the coming weeks bring more pleasant earnings surprises -- if, say, General Motors reports even a slim profit after six quarters of losses. But things would have to change far more than they have to create a truly optimistic outlook.
"Six percent growth in the first year of an economic recovery is the postwar average," Mr. Blitzer of Standard & Poor's noted. "These earnings are definitely a positive sign, but people predicting 5 percent are seen as the lunatic fringe and 4 percent is seen as high."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (70%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (64%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); ALCOA INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); BONDS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); CLOSINGS (60%); DESERT STORM (60%); SEVERANCE PAY (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J JERRY JASINOWSKI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



640 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: As Work Begins on a Big New Mall, L.I. Officials Hope for an Economic Lift

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WESTBURY, L.I.

 BODY:
Construction of the largest shopping mall built on Long Island in two decades is to begin on a 69-acre site here next month, injecting new life into the region's construction industry.
The developer, Alan Fortunoff, president of five Fortunoff housewares and jewelry stores in the New York metropolitan region, said the ground-breaking was scheduled for the first week in May. 
 The $194-million Fortunoff Galleria project won the unanimous approval of the Hempstead Town Board this month, ending a four-year struggle in which Mr. Fortunoff worked with local civic groups to overcome bitter differences over zoning changes. The building site is in the heart of Nassau County, which many critics have argued is already overdeveloped with shopping malls and office buildings.
The deciding factor, however, was a sense among community and business leaders that the project could provide a lift to Long Island's recession-weakened economy.
"In this recessionary period we will now be able to create some jobs in the construction field," said Joseph N. Mondello, Hempstead Town presiding supervisor. "And when it's completed, it will result in permanent jobs for people."
 
Thousands of Jobs
 Mr. Fortunoff estimates that construction of the mall will provide 3,000 jobs, generating a $352 million economic spinoff among surrounding retailers and other regional service providers. The entire project is expected to be completed in 1995, and the Galleria will employ 3,540 permanent full-time workers with an estimated annual payroll of $97 million.
He said that "a considerable amount of road improvements" would be the first order of business at the site here on Old Country Road. It is adjacent to the now-closed 172-acre Roosevelt Raceway, which was also recently re-zoned by Hempstead for mixed-use development, including 555 housing units, a 10-screen movie theater, an office complex and hotel and conference center. Down the street is Roosevelt Field, one of the largest shopping malls in the New York metropolitan area.
The Galleria mall will be anchored by an existing Fortunoff store, which will be upgraded, and a new Price Club warehouse store. Mr. Fortunoff said he expected the Price Club building to be completed later this year. Adjoining it will be a cluster of retailers, not yet identified, that will probably include an apparel store, a sporting goods outlet, a general merchandise store and a restaurant.
The next phase of the project, the enclosed Galleria, is in its early planning stages, with financing being arranged, Mr. Fortunoff said.
 
'Value-Oriented Mall'
 Mr. Fortunoff first proposed the Galleria complex four years ago, but shelved it because of the growing recession and opposition from civic groups representing homeowners in surrounding communities.
At one point, the project was to include two upscale anchor stores, Neiman-Marcus and Nordstrom, with a three-level mall and tiered parking. But those plans were subsequently dropped and scaled back to create what Mr. Fortunoff described as a "value-oriented mall."
The 60,000 members of the Nassau-Suffolk Building Construction Trades Council -- half of whom are currently unemployed -- are eager to put their shovels into the ground.
"We're about to pick up our tools again," said David Richardson, secretary of the trade group. "For thousands of Nassau County construction trades people, it is nothing less than a lifeline."
Shelley Lotenberg, co-president of the Salisbury Civic Association, which initially opposed the mall, praised Mr. Fortunoff for his willingness to work with community leaders to settle differences.
"Perhaps the 90's will be the decade of compromise on the part of developers and the community," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Fortunoff, who will develop a shopping mall in Westbury, L.I. (The New York Times)
 
Map: Shows the location of Westbury, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTBURY (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) RETAILERS (93%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (79%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (79%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (79%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); CITIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (65%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



641 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
House Members Can Only Guess How Voters Will React to Bank Scandal

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
The House bank scandal is a live grenade rolling around the 1992 Congressional elections. It is sure to end careers, both lofty and undistinguished. But most thoughtful politicians are wary of guessing just how it will change the House, in either partisan or substantive terms.
House elections are rarely national events, swept along by the same issues from Maine to California. It did happen after Watergate, and it sometimes happens in recessions. 
 In 1990, Republicans had hoped that the ethics charges against Speaker Jim Wright that led to his ouster could be used to show that Democrats deserved defeat. But the Democrats gained seats. Local problems, local records and local personalities usually matter far more than national issues or scandals, and few politicians think the bank issue will prove an exception.
Democrats make that argument most energetically. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, said Friday, "While undoubtedly no one is happy to see their representative bounced a check, they're much more concerned about issues that affect their lives directly, their jobs, their incomes, their health care coverage."
 
'Looking for Silver Bullets'
 Les Francis, executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said, "Republicans are always looking for silver bullets and a way to nationalize Congressional elections." He said that polls showing people would vote against representatives who wrote overdrafts were "virtually useless" because they omitted more important information about whether voters agreed with the incumbent on important issues or thought the lawmaker had served the district well.
Some Republicans argue that this issue is bigger than usual and that a national case can be made because the Democrats have ruled the House for 38 years. Newt Gingrich, the No. 2 House Republican, traveled the Southwest last week telling G.O.P. hopefuls "you will have a lot more ammunition" when the overdraft list was made public Thursday. And one Republican poll-taker who insisted he not be quoted by name because he thought his party was exploiting "a false issue," still argued that it had "burned itself into the public mind."
Another complication is a certain Republican ambivalence about going at the issue full-tilt. Some Republicans want to, but Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the House minority leader, said Friday: "I'd sure hope it was behind us. I really feel for my colleagues, most of whom I think are getting an extraordinarily bum rap for just a miserable operation" at the bank.
 
Republicans Could Gain
 But even if the more typical historical pattern holds and the bank issue turns out to be a district-by-district problem for incumbents, not a national force, it could still be the driving force behind major Republican gains. The simple fact is that more Democrats put themselves at risk, and not simply in proportion to their 62 percent majority in the House.
Polls have repeatedly shown that voters say they are more likely to oust someone if the lawmaker wrote a lot of checks, and not just a few, without the money to back them. Among the 17 incumbents listed by the Ethics Committee on April 1 as abusers, with an average of 513 overdrafts each, 14 were Democrats.
Among 30 others who wrote at least 100 overdrafts, 22 were Democrats. And among the 56 more who wrote 39 or more overdrafts, or at least one per month in the auditing period, 45 were Democrats.
But Republicans do not think they will gain from the scandal at anything like those ratios. They say their supporters are more likely to be shocked by such behavior than are some Democrats' constituents.
 
Seeing a Difference
 Mr. Michel, who said he had never written a check for more than than he had in a bank account, observed that in his Peoria area, one or two might be enough to finish a career. On the other hand, he said, in "the heart of big cities they won't give a darn."
Representative Norman F. Lent, Republican of Nassau County, was blunter. He told The Associated Press last week, "If you're from a Republican district, white, upper-middle-class people will not tolerate this from their elected officials."
Regardless of how well those two Republicans from small-town Illinois and the New York suburbs can judge the attitudes of urban constitutents of Democratic Congressmen, they probably know their own voters. Those judgments may be why six of the 22 Republicans with at least 39 overdrafts have retired. That equals the six Democrats who have announced that they will retire, but there were 81 with at least that number of overdrafts.
The impact of this issue may be felt most strongly in primaries, and that may diminish its partisan impact. When Representative Edward F. Feighan, Democrat of Ohio, dropped out of his state's primary as he was making the list of abusers, his district suddenly became safe for the Democrats again. Whoever wins the nomination in the heavily Democratic district will not have the check issue as a handicap. And if Tim Hagan, a Cuyahoga County commissioner, defeats Representative Mary Rose Oakar, who made the same list, in the June 2 Democratic primary, Republicans can give up on that Cleveland seat.
 
Time for Change
 The general election, after all, is nearly six months off. By fall, the economy and the combat of the Presidential election campaign may have drowned out the issue. And those six months offer ample time for incumbents, who still enjoy huge fund-raising advantages, to make their case.
Bob Squier, a Democratic television consultant, said the issue can be "a very handy lightning rod for vague, generalized anger" at a system that is not solving problems. But that does not mean it will overcome a record of doing things for a district, like Charles Hatcher's efforts in Georgia to get Federal subsidies for peanut producers or Thomas J. Downey's success in extending unemployment benefits and in keeping Grumman building airplanes on Long Island.
One complication is that for many lawmakers, redistricting has brought new voters who do not know them or what they have done. The bank scandal, said Ann F. Lewis, a Democratic consultant in Boston, is simply "the worst possible introduction."
The key to surviving a check problem, politicians on all sides agreed, was having a record of providing good reasons to be re-elected, apologizing forthrightly for writing overdrafts and hoping that the absurdities of the bank itself, such as rarely telling members that their checks were not covered or posting deposits late, could be made known without sounding like whiny excuses.
But without better than usual reasons for re-election, the bank issue can be a real threat to incumbents with lots of overdrafts, said Alan Secrest, a Democratic poll-taker who handles many House campaigns. He said the issue was no "silver bullet," but it still symbolized two basic cores of distrust toward Congress -- "a perceived lack of common sense and a lack of accountability."
Whether it hurts Republicans or Democrats more may matter less than how it changes the House. One retiring Republican worries that the issue may change the way representatives look at their jobs, and for the worse.
Representative Vin Weber, a respected Minnesota Republican with 125 overdrafts, said a week ago on the CBS News program "Face the Nation" that this year's challengers were "not pledging to do anything that addresses any of our nation's problems." He added, "We're going to have 150 new members here that are promising not to use a bank that's been closed for a year, and give their parking spot over to the homeless, and not work out in the House gym."
"How," he asked, "does that help us resolve the health care problem? How does it help us get a handle on the deficit? How does it restore the economy?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Richard A. Gephardt, left, the majority leader, said voters were more concerned "about issues that affect their lives directly," than the House bank scandal. "I'd sure hope it was behind us," said Representative Robert H. Michel, the minority leader. (The New York Times; Andrea Mohin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTIONS; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); SCANDALS (91%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



642 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Discord Is Said to Stall Plan to Raise I.M.F. Loan Aid to Ex-Soviets

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund is considering a plan to help the former Soviet republics pay billions of dollars' worth of their trade bills, but cannot act because its member countries are divided on the idea, says a senior official at the lending institution.
The plan would be in addition to $25 billion to $30 billion worth of conventional I.M.F. loans over the next four years and would allow all of the institution's members, including the former Soviet republics when they join, to borrow extra money. 
 The senior official's remarks were the first indication that the I.M.F. might be coming up with a new and little-discussed method to help finance international aid to the former republics. Other I.M.F. officials said that the institution's economists had quietly begun work on the idea a year ago at Japan's request, and that they would finish their review before the I.M.F. and World Bank hold their annual meeting here in September.
The senior official discussed the plan on Friday with reporters on the condition that he not be identified. Poor countries and Japan support the idea, but a Bush Administration official said the United States opposed it.
Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the I.M.F., said on Wednesday that in addition to $24 billion in aid for Russia, Western nations should spend $20 billion this year to help the 14 other former republics pay for needed imports. But Mr. Camdessus provided few details of how to pay for them.
The senior I.M.F. official suggested that creating more special drawing rights, which allow the additional borrowing for member countries, might be part of the answer. "I believe that there is now a good case for it, and we will have it on our agenda before the next annual meeting," he said.
Special drawing rights are used almost exclusively by international lending institutions and central banks for transactions with one another, like the settlement of loans and trade bills. Like the European Community's ecu, the special drawing right is a composite of several currencies and fluctuates in value with them; one special drawing right is now worth $1.37.
 
System Benefits Rich Nations
 The International Monetary Fund can create new drawing rights whenever an overwhelming majority of member nations give permission. But under an amendment to the I.M.F.'s charter, new drawing rights are divided among member countries in proportion to their financial contributions to the fund. So rich nations get the most and poor nations get the least.
Whenever a country takes some of its special drawing rights out of the institution and uses them to pay a loan or bill, it owes money on the drawing rights until it replaces them. For this reason, creating more special drawing rights amounts to allowing I.M.F. countries to borrow more money.
Because the I.M.F. decided this week that the 15 republics would have a combined stake of only 4.76 percent in the institution, only this proportion of any new special drawing rights would be given to them. But an I.M.F. official who insisted on anonymity said some of the institution's wealthiest members had informally begun talks on ways to transfer some of their special drawing rights to the new republics.
 
No Figures Are Set
 Poor countries have been calling for the creation of 50 billion drawing rights over five years, which would be worth $68.5 billion. If such an amount were created, then the former Soviet republics would initially receive only $3.26 billion worth. The senior I.M.F. official provided no figures on how many drawing rights might be created, and other officials at the institution said that no amount had been set yet.
The official reason for United States opposition to the plan is a concern that creating money from nothing may be inflationary. The Treasury Department and large commercial banks in New York, however, profit handsomely from the current scarcity of special drawing rights and have no incentive to want the system changed. This is because central banks of third-world countries have to borrow large sums from commercial banks to maintain a large supply of Treasury bonds for loan payments and trade bills.
Because poor countries are viewed as risky borrowers, commercial banks charge them a higher interest rate than is paid on Treasury bonds. So poor countries lose the difference between the two interest rates, while commercial banks profit on the loans and the Treasury insures some extra demand for its bonds.
By contrast, poor countries pay roughly the Treasury bond rate when they borrow by taking special drawing rights out of the I.M.F., thereby saving on interest payments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



643 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: With Budget in Hand, Albany Shifts Its Focus to Other Issues

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 19

 BODY:
For the first time in years, the Legislature will have time on its hands when it returns to Albany on Tuesday after a two-week recess. That may sound like a dangerous proposition to some, but it could make the next 10 weeks one of the most productive periods in the Legislature's recent history.
Before leaving town on April 2, lawmakers passed a budget that was virtually on schedule; the first time that has happened since 1984. Last year, the budget was not settled until July 4, the last day of the session. 
 "This is a tremendous advantage for us," said Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat. "Last year we were frustrated completely. We spent all our time negotiating the budget and everything else got shoved into the background."
This year, the lawmakers can turn their attention to bills that would change the state's election laws, change the way that health insurance rates are set, and even allow horse racing to be simulcast in homes on pay-per-view cable television.
Much of what the Legislature does will be shaped by the overriding influence of election-year politics. And, as always, many issues will become ensnared in disagreements between the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-majority Assembly. But at least there will be a potential for action that has been missing in previous years.
Here are some of the prime issues facing the Legislature:
 
Election Law Changes
 The Legislature has already approved a redistricting plan for its own districts. But Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has hinted that he may veto the bill unless lawmakers pass a package of significant changes in New York's election laws.
The Governor has asked for changes that would make it easier for challengers to get on the ballot, would encourage voter registration and would establish a system of public campaign financing.
The Legislature is also considering a bill proposed by New York City's Campaign Finance Board that would place strict limits on the size of contributions received by candidates for major city offices.
The Assembly Democrats and Senate Republicans have declared an impasse over Congressional redistricting. A panel of Federal judges has given the Legislature until April 27 to break its deadlock. If it does not, the court is most likely to make the redistricting decisions on its own.
 
Insurance
 The Senate is to take up a bill, already approved by the Assembly, that would sharply change the way health insurance rates are set in New York. It would force commercial insurance companies to accept anyone who applies for insurance, regardless of risk. It also would require commercial insurers to set premiums for individual and small-group customers based on the average risk of a larger pool of customers.
The legislation has been opposed by Senate Republican leaders, who argue that it would give unfair advantages to the commercial insurers' ailing competitors -- the state's nonprofit Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans. But Mr. Cuomo has warned that if the Senate does not approve the Assembly bill, the state would be forced to raise premiums for the 1.2 million customers of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield in October, just before Election Day.
 
Transportation
 Almost everybody in the Capitol expects a colossal battle to unfold over how to spend nearly $750 million a year in petroleum taxes that now go into the state's general fund but will be dedicated to transportation projects in April 1993.
The battle will be fought on at least two fronts: how to divide the money between highways and mass transportation, and how to divide it regionally between New York City, its suburbs and upstate.
 
Clean Air
 The Senate has already approved legislation that would allow the state to delay the carrying out of tough new standards on reducing motor vehicle emissions. The bill's sponsors argue that the so-called California standards, which have been adopted by New York and would require cleaner cars to be sold in the state, would have a significant economic impact on automobile manufacturing and related industries. The same bill is being considered in the Assembly.
 
Environment
 With the voters' rejection of a $1.9 billion Environmental Bond Act two years ago, the Legislature has yet to create a permanent fund to finance recycling, water treatment, landfill closings and open-space preservation. Such projects could be financed in part by the $80 million a year from beverage taxes that were intended to pay interest on the failed bond act.
 
Adirondacks
 As the Adirondack Park enters its centennial year, the Legislature is expected to address finally a major package of proposals by Mr. Cuomo intended to protect the park's wilderness. The Governor's bill would tighten zoning restrictions in some lake-front and back-country areas while also expanding tax incentives for land preservation.
 
Bond Act
 The Legislature must give its approval to an $800 million job development bond act, proposed by Mr. Cuomo, for the proposal to be placed on November's general election ballot. Most of the bond act proceeds would be dedicated to infrastructure improvements like roads and sewage hookups that make areas more attractive to businesses. But legislators are likely to ask whether the state can afford more borrowing at a time when its debt burden has increased and its revenues are flat.
 
New York City Taxes
 Mayor David N. Dinkins has asked the Legislature to give him the authority to raise a number of New York City taxes. His proposals include an increase in the tax on income earned in the city by nonresidents, a 5-cent-a-gallon increase in the gasoline tax, and a 1 percent tax on the value of cars registered in the city. He would also make permanent a surcharge on personal income taxes that is scheduled to expire next year.
 
TuitionHE>
Last week the City University of New York announced an unprecedented plan that would increase tuition by $600 a year for new students and by $350 a year for current students. If new students make it to their senior year, their last semester would be free.
But some lawmakers have argued that such a two-tier plan might be illegal. That could force the Legislature to either clarify the law so that City University could move ahead or take a formal step to kill the plan.
The State University of New York may try to pursue a first-ever plan to vary tuition among its 34 state-operated campuses. It cannot do so without legislative approval.
 
Cameras in the Courts
 The state's four-year experiment with cameras in the courtroom ended last year, and the Legislature has been unable to reach a compromise that would extend the program.
The main impediment last year was the insistence of Senate Republicans that witnesses in court cases be given the option of refusing to have their testimony filmed. This year, Senate leaders have said they may offer a compromise in which witnesses could choose to have their faces obscured.
 
Rental Cars
 New York's vicarious liability statute makes car owners legally responsible for damages caused by a driver, even if the car is rented. The Hertz Corporation recently used the law to justify its imposition of surcharges on renters from certain parts of New York City to cover higher liability costs in those areas. In response to the outcry provoked by Hertz's announcement, legislation has been introduced in the Senate to prohibit the surcharges while placing caps on vicarious liability.
 
Horse Racing
 The budget passed earlier this month includes $50 million from the sale of a 40-acre parking lot at Aqueduct race track by the New York Racing Authority to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
But the deal is contingent on a legislative agreement to allow the racing authority to simulcast horse races into homes via pay-per-view cable television. Bettors would be able to wager from their homes after establishing credit with the track.
The plan has been hung up over details of how the simulcasting system would work, including whether it would be controlled by the racing authority or by local off-track-betting corporations.
 
Item Pricing
 The state's 1976 item pricing law, which required all supermarkets to put individual price stickers on most items they sell, expired last June. While New York City and 10 counties have item pricing laws of their own, consumer groups point out that such laws are not uniform. They want the state law reinstated and made permanent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REAPPORTIONMENT; FINANCES; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (89%); INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); BALLOTS (68%); JUDGES (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (67%); PAY PER VIEW (67%); HORSE RACING (52%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN MARIO M CUOMO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



644 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Official Is Optimistic

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
A senior International Monetary Fund official brushed aside worries about a world recession and forecast faster global growth next year.
"Even if we see downward risk here and there, our expectation is for a global recovery," he said at a briefing ahead of the I.M.F.'s semiannual meeting here later this month. 
 The official, who requested anonymity, spoke to reporters on Friday but his remarks were embargoed until today. He forecast global growth next year of 3.25 percent after a meager 1.75 percent rise in 1992.
Some private economists are not so sanguine. They argue that Japan's stock market collapse, Germany's slumping growth and America's doubtful recovery have increased the odds of a global downturn.
"Given the financial fragilities around the world, we could easily be tipped into a world recession," said C. Fred Bergsten, a former United States official who is director of the Institute for International Economics, a research organization here.
That is a worry shared by the Bush Administration, which is afraid that weak growth overseas will sabotage the hesitant American recovery and hurt the President's chances for re-election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (96%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (96%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



645 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Issuers Seeking New Ways to Keep Business

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
As competition heats up in the credit card business and big banks announce lower interest rates, bankers are still looking for new features -- like the customer's picture printed on the card -- to set themselves apart.
Citibank, the country's leading issuer of credit cards, plans to announce today an offer to print, without charge, a stamp-size photograph of the customer on the back of its credit cards. The bank says the pictures will help fight fraudulent use of the cards, which costs the industry about $1 billion a year. 
 On Thursday, Citibank announced that it was reducing interest rates for about nine million of its best card customers. The bank has more than 30 million credit cards.
 
Competitors Expected to Respond
 Banking analysts expect leading competitors, like Sears, Roebuck's Discover card, Chase Manhattan Bank, Bank of America, First National Bank of Chicago and American Telephone & Telegraph Company's Universal Card to respond with marketing ploys of their own.
As bankers and their marketing experts look for ways to keep their customers, they are recognizing that many are no longer impressed by offers like roadside auto service, travel insurance and protection against damage to goods purchased by credit card.
"The real movement now is the reduction in interest rates or elimination of annual fees," said Kurt T. Peters, editor of the Credit Card News, published in Chicago. "The bells-and-whistles enhancements put on cards in the late 1980's have run their course."
Mr. Peters said many issuers had reduced or dropped some extra services introduced in the 1980's. Citibank, for example, dropped free travel accident insurance coverage from most cards, Chase Manhattan reduced the amount of travel accident insurance it offers and Bank of America dropped a plan that insured items purchased with a card from loss or theft and doubled warranty coverage.
In contrast to the trend of the 1980's, when the banks concentrated on signing up new card customers, the current push is aimed at keeping the customers they already have.
David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, a Santa Monica, Calif., newsletter covering the credit card industry, said, "The marketing war between the largest issuers is going to heat up, with lots of offers of lower prices and other benefits for customers who use their cards more frequently." Among the benefits he expects to see are offers of coupons or free merchandise for customers who use their cards often.
Many bankers have also learned that it is cheaper to offer services that reduce the number of customers who drop the bank -- now about 1 in 20 -- than it is to attract new accounts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); T (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CITIBANK (NYC) BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (56%); AT&T INC (56%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; PHOTOGRAPHY CREDIT CARDS (94%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); TRAVEL INSURANCE (71%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (71%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL KURT T PETERS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



646 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo;
The Fed's Master of Obfuscation

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
When it comes to Greenspan-speak, everybody is an expert. Stockbrokers translate his every utterance into buy and sell orders; bond dealers make their markets dance; the dollar wiggles, the mark jiggles.
Such confidence is somewhat strange, because the sole practitioner of Greenspan-speak, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, works extremely hard at being extremely circumspect about his intentions. 
 Take this example from a Congressional hearing last month, as senators were badgering him to cut interest rates to speed economic recovery:
"While I've indicated to you previously that we may well have, probably do have, enough monetary stimulus in the system to create that, I'm not sure that we will not need some insurance or to revisit this issue, and all I can say to you is that we're all looking at the same set of data, the same economy, the same sense of confidence which pervades it. We're all making our judgments with respect to how that is evolving with respect to economic activity and where the risks of various different actions are. And there will be differences inevitably."
In other words: recent cuts in interest rates just might be working to create a rebound. Or they might not.
Mr. Greenspan seems to reserve his most Delphic utterances for occasions on which he must discuss monetary policy and interest rates. Even on less market-sensitive subjects, however, it generally helps to have a practiced ear. For one thing, he often plays the king of understatement, as in an appearance last Friday before the Senate Banking Committee. He said then that he was "reluctant to advocate significant fiscal stimulus," when what he meant was that he strenuously opposed tax cuts or spending increases.
And, of course, the nature of Mr. Greenspan's subject matter often requires multiple readings to get his drift. Such was the case in his Friday testimony when he said, "The long-term capital inflow and current-account surplus in 1991 were offset by large private short-term capital outflows."
When Mr. Greenspan testifies, he attacks mountains of economic statistics like a slalom skier, weaving from positive to negative to positive to negative, twisting adroitly to a finish line marked with a banner reading "Uncertain."
One reason he takes such care to hedge is that monetary policy can be so easily hijacked by how traders interpret his remarks. Indeed, Mr. Greenspan denies neither his intent nor his choice of weapon.
"Since I've become a central banker, I've learned to mumble with great incoherence," he once told Congress.
In 1978, Congress began requiring Federal Reserve chairmen to testify regularly on monetary policy. These appearances have become exercises in hide and seek, where Fed chairmen reveal a few tidbits and play masters of obscurantism on most matters.
 
Freewheeling Predecessor
 Paul A. Volcker, Mr. Greenspan's predecessor, was also deliberately ambiguous when he testified before Congress. But the cigar-chomping Mr. Volcker was usually more freewheeling and occasionally more willing to signal his intentions.
David M. Jones, of Aubrey G. Lamston & Company, a New York securities dealer, a Fed watcher who has written tomes about such testimony, is full of praise for Mr. Greenspan. "I can't remember when there was such a master of obfuscation on analytical matters," he said.
But sometimes even masters stumble. On Jan. 29, stocks and bonds plunged after Mr. Greenspan made what he thought were some innocent remarks. "Monetary policy is clearly working to try to break the back of this credit crunch," he said. "Is it enough? I think so. Do I know that for sure? The answer is no."
The markets focused on the first half of his remarks and ignored the second half, pushing interest rates up and stock prices down on the belief that the Fed would no longer lower short-term rates. In subsequent testimony, Mr. Greenspan said that the market reaction surprised him, since he thought his suggestion that a recovery was in the offing should have buoyed the markets.
So six days later he made a slight change. "We expect that the amount of monetary ease in the pipeline is adequate to turn the economy onto the path of sustained recovery," he said. "We are, of course, continuing to evaluate whether some additional insurance in the way of further monetary ease would be appropriate."
After that remark, the markets ignored the first half of what he said and focused on the second half. And they soared.
Fed watchers say it is often hard to tell whether any given statement from the chairman is made murky because he wants to keep bond traders confused or because he himself is honestly confused about what signals the nation's economy is sending.
"If you read carefully what he says, I don't think you're misled," said Stephen Axilrod, a former staff director of monetary policy at the Fed who is now vice chairman of Nikko Securities in New York. "You're put in the same situation as he is."
But neither traders nor journalists are paid to be confused. When Mr. Greenspan goes to Capitol Hill, as soon as he says something that might -- or that some journalist thinks might -- indicate how the Fed will move, a half-dozen wire service reporters sprint out the door to phone in stories.
 
Detours and U-Turns
 Making matters more difficult for Mr. Greenspan and his listeners is the length of hearings. As they drag on from three to four or five hours, the syntax of his hypercomplex answers develops new detours and U-turns.
"His sentences are long and complicated, and you can watch on television as the senators listening to him get that my-eyes-glaze-over look," Mr. Jones said. "They try to hide it because they don't want to show that they've lost his train of thought."
Some economists say one reason Mr. Greenspan's jargon is so "on the one hand, on the other hand" is that he is afraid of making an incorrect forecast -- as he did last summer. Like most other economists then, he talked of a recovery gathering steam. But the pickup sputtered last fall when consumer confidence dived and consumer spending stalled.
Before becoming Fed chairman, Mr. Greenspan headed an economic forecasting firm, and even then he was cautious. Now he is quadruply so.
"This is an extremely difficult period to make economic projections," he told Congress on Feb. 25. "Hopefully we may be underestimating what's going on. But I think it is just as likely that we might be failing to even attain those levels that we are talking about."
Then, worrying that the signs of economic spring might suddenly be killed off by a sudden frost, he added, "I think it is crucially important that we not be misled by what is happening currently."
Many economists say the markets are dissecting Mr. Greenspan's language even more than that of his predecessors because with the huge budget deficit sending fiscal policy to the sidelines, monetary policy has become the policy maker's only weapon.
"The markets are worrying more about him, and he worries more about the markets," Mr. Jones said. "Sometimes it seems he is almost reacting to his own shadow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With world financial markets sensitive to any word he utters, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has developed an almost noncommittal style of speech he calls an incoherent mumble. (Marty Katz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); TAX LAW (71%); STATISTICS (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%); SKIING (65%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



647 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Elle Clamors for Attention With a 'Naughty' Challenge

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ELLE is responding to intensified competition in the women's fashion magazine field with a cheeky suggestion, "Go to Elle."
The theme appears in a series of print advertisements and posters that are part of the most extensive, and expensive, trade and consumer circulation promotion campaign to date for the Hachette Magazines monthly. The ads, which begin running today, appear as Elle's chief competitors, Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, are cranking up their own hoopla machinery. 
 Vogue, a Conde Nast publication, is commemorating its 100th anniversary with a special April issue. Harper's Bazaar, published by Hearst Magazines, is bringing in a new editor in chief as well as planning to mark its 125th anniversary later this year. At age 3, Mirabella, the fourth magazine in the crowded, contentious field, is too young for an anniversary party, but is celebrating winning a National Magazine Award last week for general excellence.
"We would raise our voice even if the noise were not out there," Gail S. Stone, Elle's vice president and publisher of almost five months, said in an interview last week at Hachette's office in midtown Manhattan. "We have a lot to say."
Among the points Ms. Stone is seeking to impress upon the advertising community about the French magazine's American edition are its circulation strength -- the rate base, the circulation guaranteed to advertisers, recently rose 6.1 percent, to 875,000 -- and its ability to attract advertisers in categories like automobiles, liquor and food.
David Pecker, president and chief operating officer at Hachette, said the $2 million to be spent on Elle in the next nine months was the most ever devoted to a single Hachette magazine campaign.
The 15 ads and posters are the creation of the mischievous minds at Lois U.S.A. The three-word theme typifies the agency's penchant for short, snappy, somewhat unsophisticated slogans for media clients: "Make time for Time" for Time magazine; "In your face" for ESPN, the sports cable television network, and "I want my MTV" for that music video cable network.
"You want people not only to remember it, but to have fun with it," said George Lois, the agency's chairman and chief executive in New York. "You can get away with 'Go to Elle' because it's a French, sassy, hip magazine. I don't think you could do anything that naughty for Mirabella or Vogue."
Ms. Stone agreed. "Most successful advertising is somewhat tongue-in-cheek," she said. "So when Lois came up with the idea, we thought it was right on target. We want everybody to 'go to Elle' with their advertising."
To achieve that goal, the campaign involves advertisers in an unusual manner. Companies that already buy ad pages in Elle, like the makers of Nike athletic footwear and Guess jeans, are lending Lois images from their own advertisements.
For instance, one Elle ad uses a photograph from a Guess ad, featuring a Marilyn Monroe look-alike; the headline reads, "Guess who went to Elle." Another reprints six Absolut vodka ads, created by TBWA Advertising in New York, with the headline "One more . . . for the Absolut Elle of it!"
Like the other fashion magazines, Elle's advertising sales have suffered during the recession. Last year, ad pages fell 23.3 percent from 1990, the second-largest decline in the category after a 26.3 percent plunge at Harper's Bazaar. And for the first six months of this year -- Elle's issues are closed through June -- ad pages dropped 14 percent from the comparable period in 1991, Ms. Stone said.
The print ads are scheduled to run in publications like Advertising Age, The Chicago Tribune, Inside Media, The New York Times, W and The Wall Street Journal. Beginning next month, the posters will appear on bus shelters and telephone kiosks and at airports and newsstands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ELLE (MAGAZINE) HEARST CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELLE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); CABLE INDUSTRY (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: STONE, GAIL S; ELLIOTT, STUART ELLE CLAMORS (96%); GAIL S STONE (73%); GEORGE LOIS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



648 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Lower Rates Prompt Refinancings

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
To the dismay of investors and the delight of corporate treasurers, the steady slide in interest rates over the last three years has prompted a rising number of companies to redeem billions in outstanding debt issued when rates were much higher.
Through April 15, 362 issues totaling more than $33 billion have already been called or will soon be called, according to Fitch Investors Service Inc., a bond rating concern. 
 "Corporate America is going to have a much better-looking balance sheet," said Nancy M. Drucker, a vice president of Fitch. "Individual investors, on the other hand, are seeing nest eggs that had been earning 9 percent or more going out the window."
Based on the number of bonds that are either callable or refundable this year, Ms. Drucker estimated that more than $70 billion in corporate debt could ultimately be called in 1992, assuming interest rates remain close to current levels.
 
Carbide and Du Pont Refinancing
 The Du Pont Company and the Union Carbide Corporation are the most recent additions to the expanding list of companies that intend to refinance high-cost debt.
Last week, Du Pont said that on June 14 it would redeem all $2.13 billion in face amount of zero-coupon bonds due in 2010. Also last week, Union Carbide said that on May 5 it would call all $350 million outstanding of 9 3/4 percent senior subordinated notes maturing in 1994.
Analysts say the trend is important because most of the torrents of new issues sold this year have been used to replace callable debt, not to raise new money.
"Despite the first-quarter deluge of corporate bond issues, corporations continue to pare total debt," Susan Hering, an economist at Salomon Brothers, wrote in the firm's weekly "Comments on Credit" letter to clients.
The weakness of private credit demand when Government credit demand continues to expand at seemingly breakneck speed largely explains why market interest rates have declined as much as they have in the last two years.
And fears that huge Treasury borrowings will crowd out other issuers and drive up interest rates will not be realized as long as corporate credit demand remains weak, the analysts say.
"Private-sector debt growth is the lowest it has been since 1952, when records started to be kept," said Paul D. Mastroddi, an economist at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. "The voluntary cutback in private-sector borrowing has saved the day for the United States."
 
Trend Growing Since 1989
 Though the volume of corporate bond calls will likely hit record proportions this year, the deleveraging trend has been accelerating since 1989.
The dollar volume of corporate bonds called has risen from $30.5 billion in 1989 to $35.3 billion in 1990 and $50.1 billion last year, the Fitch data show. In addition, short-term debt issued by corporations decreased last year.
"We very well may be in a period when the use of debt becomes almost taboo," said Thomas J. Sowanick, senior fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company.
Although lower debt-service payments provided by refinancing at lower rates are the primary reason that companies choose to call outstanding bonds, interest rate levels are by no means the only consideration in making such a decision, corporate finance specialists said.
"The decision to refinance is very obvious if you want to refund a bond with a coupon of 13 percent or 14 percent," said Andrew Kalotay, president of Andrew Kalotay Associates, a New York consulting firm that specializes in debt management. "But it becomes a much tougher choice if you are looking at refinancing 9.50 percent issues with 8.50 percent paper."
A range of accounting considerations, from tax treatment to transaction costs, are among the factors corporate treasurers need to consider in such instances. In addition, Mr. Kalotay said companies needed to determine the value of the option the call represented before making a decision.
 
An Asset That Can Be Overlooked
 Exercising the call option under circumstances in which the difference between market rates and rates on an outstanding issue are fairly narrow eliminates any possibility of greater savings should interest rates move lower.
"In addition to looking at borrowing costs, you need to consider the value of the call options, which are assets," Mr. Kalotay said. "When you refund a bond, you are cashing that in."
The move to refinance and pare down high-cost debt has been generally applauded as a necessary palliative to the leverage excesses of the 1980's.
But if the economy is to grow at more than its current anemic pace, private credit demand will need to pick up. A turnaround is not imminent, analysts said.
"Corporate demands on the credit markets are very cyclical," Mr. Mastroddi said.
"Usually, a year or two after an expansion gets going they start tapping the markets for funds to expand capacity and the like."
At roughly 78 percent, capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector is currently quite low, Mr. Mastroddi said.
"There is no sense that a pickup in capital spending is going on," he said. "And I don't see it happening anytime soon."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; FINANCES; CORPORATE BONDS; CREDIT BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); TRENDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (77%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (72%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ANDREW KALOTAY (67%); PAUL D MASTRODDI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



649 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Exhibition On Blacks And Jews Is Faulted

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE

 BODY:
Hundreds of compelling objects and images -- from a Jewish child's 1939 textbook with a Yiddish translation of a Langston Hughes poem to a photograph of black American soldiers standing among corpses after they liberated Buchenwald -- make up the exhibition "Bridges and Boundaries: African-Americans and American Jews" at the Jewish Museum's temporary galleries at the New-York Historical Society.
But the show, a collaboration between the Jewish Museum and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People that attempts to trace the complex relationship between blacks and Jews, has itself drawn criticism from several labor organizations, many of whose members are Jewish. 
 Before the exhibition opened last month, representatives of the United Federation of Teachers, the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and the Jewish Labor Committee contended that it inaccurately or unfairly portrayed aspects of their movements. They were upset by, among other things, the show's initial plans to use what they described as 30-year-old discredited charges by an official of the N.A.A.C.P., who said that black and Puerto Rican members of the garment workers' union were discriminated against "in terms of wages and other conditions of employment and in their status as members of the union."
The exhibition's organizers have removed the allegation that the I.L.G.W.U. found offensive, replacing it with a quote from a black rank-and-file union member who actually experienced discrimination during the 50's. But David Melman, an assistant to the president of the I.L.G.W.U., said his organization was not satisfied with the replacement quote, either. Its inference, he said, that the union made no attempt to train black women in the face of discrimination in the work place "was not true from what we could determine."
Jeannette DiLorenzo, the treasurer of the teachers' union, complained that her organization was not consulted by the show's organizers about the controversial school decentralization experiment in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section in Brooklyn in the 1960's. The teachers' union played a central role in that experiment, which Ms. DiLorenzo contends is inaccurately portrayed in the exhibition as one in which "black children and Jewish teachers were at the heart of the struggle that took place." The real issues, she said, involved contractual rights and due process.
Despite the complaints, the union representatives generally approved of the exhibition. Ms. DiLorenzo gave it an "A for effort," and Mr. Melman said its "positive side outweighs the negative side, both as it relates to the I.L.G.W.U. and in general."
"We always knew we were going to be dealing with controversial issues," said Ward Mintz, the Jewish Museum's assistant director for programs. "We relied on scholarship of many, many people, including major academic advisers in a variety of fields, so we do feel that all of our research is based on substantial scholarship and we are very serious about that."
 
'A Rich, Complex History'
 "Bridges and Boundaries," which took four years to assemble, comprises more than 350 works of art, artifacts, photographs, documents, film and television excerpts and press materials. Gretchen Sullivan Sorin, the show's guest curator, said an effort had been made to "include many different voices -- including people neither black nor Jewish and people both black and Jewish -- and talk about not just one community of African-Americans or one community of American Jews but multiple communities, to come up with a rich, complex history that includes the views of many."
Included among the exhibits are 1850 daguerreotypes of slaves stripped to the waist, a candlestick with a bullet hole from the Kishinev pogrom in Russia in 1903 and a children's book from 1831 that underscores ways in which notions of inferiority were planted: Africans were described as going "almost without clothes" while the English were "very wise and very rich."
There are also the 1964 F.B.I. "missing" poster for the slain civil rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner, and a letter Rae Frank wrote to her imprisoned son, Leo, a Jewish manager of a Georgia pencil factory, before whites abducted and lynched him in 1915 after his death sentence for murder had been commuted. Excerpts from feature films made between 1904 and 1958 trace the evolution of Hollywood's often stereotyped images of blacks and Jews.
The exhibition space is designed to evoke five historical "places" or settings where the paths of blacks and Jews have crossed in important ways in this century, as shared pains and battles against bigotry brought them together and tensions around the issues of class, race and economic disparity drove them apart.
The interaction of blacks and Jews in the I.L.G.W.U. and other unions is explored in a setting called "Joining and Organizing: Strength in Numbers." A scene called "Changing Identities: What's Ours Is Ours" uses the Ocean Hill-Brownsville struggle to illustrate how some blacks and Jews moved in opposite directions over such issues as community control, affirmative action and the black power movement.
Themes of freedom and liberation appear in the work of both African-American and American Jewish artists in the exhibition. Isac Friedlander, a Jewish artist, used "Exodus" as the title of his 1931 work symbolizing the freeing of the slaves. "Sanctuary," a 1946 linocut by Wilmer Angier Jennings, a black artist, represents either the underground railroad or the Holocaust.
Among those who worked closely with the Jewish Museum in assembling the exhibition was Mildred Roxborough, the director of development programs for the N.A.A.C.P., which was founded in 1909 by a multi-racial group and is the oldest of the nation's civil rights organizations. Now 64 years old, she was only 9 when she joined the civil rights group and started selling its magazine, The Crisis, after her parents organized a branch in Brownsville, Tenn., to fight for the right to vote. For her, the exhibition has practical relevance.
"We wanted this to help us learn about those who helped us in our struggle and those who hindered us," she said. "We think past experience can help us with future relationships."
The exhibition will be at the New-York Historical Society until July 19, after which it is to travel to San Francisco; Rochester; Baltimore; Wilberforce, Ohio; Los Angeles; Philadelphia, and Chicago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Walking," circa 1958, by Charles Alston (Michael Tropea) and a scene outside a school in 1968 during the Ocean Hill-Brownsville struggle from "Bridges and Boundaries: African-Americans and American Jews." (Fred W. McDarrah)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE; JEWISH MUSEUM (NYC); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT); INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS UNION (ILGWU); JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (83%); JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE; JEWISH MUSEUM (NYC); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT); INTERNATIONAL LADIES GARMENT WORKERS UNION (ILGWU); JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (83%); JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); JEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); LABOR UNIONS (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); CHILDREN (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA JEANNETTE DILORENZO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



650 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The Talk of Hollywood;
'Malcolm X' Is Setting An Industry Brushfire Months Before Release

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, April 19

 BODY:
Denzel Washington remarked the other day that his newest film, "Malcolm X," would not be the most controversial film of the year. "It's going to be the most controversial film of the decade," he said.
It's probably just Hollywood hyperbole, but the actor's comment underlines the anticipation here for the forthcoming Spike Lee film, which is stirring even more talk, if that's possible, than that other controversial Warner Brothers film, Oliver Stone's "J. F. K." And "Malcolm X," which is being edited, doesn't even open until Thanksgiving. 
 What got the "Malcolm X" controversy going and has kept it bubbling -- always good for business -- are issues involving money and personality coupled with the continuing fascination with and debate over the legacy of Malcolm X, the black nationalist leader who was slain 27 years ago. The movie, starring Mr. Washington, has been filmed in Harlem, upstate New York, Egypt and South Africa, among other places, and Mr. Lee, who has never been shy about his own endeavors, has described it as "an epic picture on the scale of the great films that David Lean did." The reference was to "Lawrence of Arabia" and "Dr. Zhivago."
The problem with epics, though, is they are expensive and run far longer than two hours, hardly what movie executives are seeking in the current recessionary mood.
Initially budgeted at $28 million, which is not elaborately expensive, the movie's costs have climbed to $33 million. This prompted the Completion Bond Company, which insures investors against films going over budget, to take financial control of the movie and inform Mr. Lee that his film was to be no longer than 2 hours and 15 minutes. Mr. Lee recently showed Warner Brothers executives a four-hour version and said that if Oliver Stone could create a more than three-hour movie about John F. Kennedy, then he should have equal time for Malcolm X. Studios generally abhor great length in films because it reduces the number of times a day the film can be shown at theaters.
But the producer of "Malcolm X," Marvin Worth, who has made such movies as "Lennie" and "The Rose," made it plain that he wanted a three-hour film if that was what Mr. Lee wanted. "I showed a four-hour cut to Warner's and the bond company and no one even went to the bathroom," he said. "They loved it." Mr. Lee is in New York editing the movie.
The film is largely based on a screenplay written more than 20 years ago by James Baldwin and Arnold Perl, who are both dead. Mr. Worth said that Malcolm X's widow, Betty Shabazz, served as a consultant on the movie, which traces Malcolm's life from his early days of petty crime to his prison conversion to the Nation of Islam and his rise to become a leader who preached black pride and self-reliance.
The film has already provoked a dispute among blacks -- and this may very well grow. Mr. Lee has tangled with the poet Amiri Baraka, who has said that the movie, which he has not seen, will be a distortion of Malcolm X's life "to make middle-class Negroes sleep easier." He has also deplored several of Mr. Lee's previous movies, including "Do the Right Thing" and "She's Gotta Have It," for their depiction of blacks, and said the film maker "is part of a retrograde movement in this country."
Despite reports that lawyers, agents and producers are still hassling over the movie, Warner Brothers officials and Mr. Worth insist that everything is normal, for the moment. "There's no fighting, no trouble in River City," said Mr. Worth, sighing.
 
An Age-Old Problem

Del Reisman declines to say how old he is.
As president of the Writers Guild of America, West, which represents Hollywood's 8,000 movie and television writers, Mr. Reisman indicates that his decision to keep his age private is a matter of professional survival for a writer in a town where 40 is old, over 40 is very old. And it's also a statement about his role with the Writers Guild.
"I'm acting in behalf of hundreds and hundreds of writers in not mentioning my age," he said in his office on Beverly Boulevard. "I would like to make a point that age is irrelevant. I'm gray haired. I'm not a kid. I began writing for television in the 1950's. But at a certain age in this town -- let's face it -- you're in trouble."
Mr. Reisman has made a successful career writing for numerous television series. He began in the 1950's as story editor for the live show "Playhouse 90" and has written for such shows as "The Untouchables," "Rawhide," "Peyton Place" and "Streets of San Francisco."
He said that since he took over the Writers Guild six months ago, the age problem for writers had turned into a nightmare. The sluggish economy, the diminishing number of studio development deals, the rising number of under-30 television executives who want to hire their own friends and classmates for shows aimed at the 20-something crowd, the town's youth culture, have left many older writers reeling. "A lot of older writers are having serious problems," he said. "Especially on television."
Mr. Reisman said it was common now for older writers like himself (he served in Europe in World War II) to list their credits for producers or executives, but discard the last page or two that may begin in the 1950's. "It's not wise to list your credits going back," he said. "It's a way of telling the executive, 'Boy, am I old.' A lot of writers simply won't refer to past credits."
Older writers pitching stories often take younger writers with them. "It takes the edge off the fact of their age," he said.
Mr. Reisman said: "I have a sense of great failure and frustration. I thought I could make a dent in this problem. A little dent. And I haven't been able to. And I'm very upset about this kind of ladies' and gentlemen's agreement that's so pervasive among executives. It's not a plot. It's an ingrained attitude. We can no longer approach the industry on the basis of compassion. We can't say you're hurting nice people. That doesn't work. We can only say that you're overlooking some real talent."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spike Lee (Steve Sands)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MALCOLM X (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (71%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WARNER BROTHERS LICENSING (68%); WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (71%); UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (74%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; LEE, SPIKE; REISMAN, DEL DENZEL WASHINGTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



651 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: How Health Insurers Get Away With Fraud;
For National Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report that Federal court rulings have given employers that act as their own insurers wide leeway to cut medical insurance benefits (front page, March 29). You thus create the impression that we can cure the ills of our health care system if we replace the Federal law that regulates employer-provided health plans with state-by-state regulation of health care benefits. Nothing could be further from reality.
Health-care coverage is a national issue, and reform of our health care system requires national solutions. If we abandon Federal laws like the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, also called Erisa, for a patchwork of state-by-state regulation, employers will be forced to spend scarce dollars complying with a dizzying array of state mandates and on expensive litigation that too often reflects the influence of special interests. Employers will have to cut back on the breadth of -- or even altogether drop -- their health-care coverage. Needless to say, state mandates and financial incentives to sue will chill any inclination to provide coverage by those employers who do not now do so. 
 The most glaring weakness of our health-care system is not Erisa's pre-emption of state laws. At the heart of the growing crisis is the system's failure to contain the extraordinary escalating cost of health care, soon to exceed 13 percent of gross national product. Neither employers nor Federal and state governments can afford to cover every infirmity and every medical procedure, let alone the type of custodial nursing care you cite anecdotally.
The nation's largest employers, represented by my committee, has adopted a policy statement on health care system reform, which asserts that comprehensive health-care coverage for employees will be in jeopardy unless we address the cost and quality concerns that must be the focus of national reform.
We need national reform that provides for cost containment, accountability and affordability. Promises to increase access without such reform are at best empty and at worst a cruel fraud.
 
MARK J. UGORETZ
President, Erisa Industry Committee
Washington, April 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ERISA INDUSTRY COMMITTEE

ORGANIZATION: ERISA INDUSTRY COMMITTEE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (94%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (91%); INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: UGORETZ, MARK CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



652 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Let's Look at These 12 Years of Misrule

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The barrenness, paucity, cynicism and indifference of the Republican Administration were clearly exposed on the same day, March 30, by two opposing forces in the Republican Party, namely the anonymous Republican author of "Our Do-Nothing Government" (Op-Ed) and Representative Newt Gingrich ("The Slow-Motion Suicide of the World's Once Greatest City," letter).
The Op-Ed writer describes a Republican Administration bereft of concrete ideas and programs for solving the enormous problems it spawned through 12 years of bungling and ineptitude. 
 Mr. Gingrich illustrates a well-known tactic of attacking whatever or whoever may seem fashionable to attack to divert attention from those problems and the lack of concrete programs to alleviate them. He could better serve the American public by facing the homelessness, poverty, hunger, violence, voodoo economics, flip-flop foreign policies, inadequate health care, high infant mortality rate, AIDS and dependence on foreign oil that have exploded during the last 12 years of Republican rule.
It is no less than obscene that more Americans are killed by handguns in one day than in Japan in one year; that American taxpayers will pay $500 billion to bail out the savings and loan scandal; that one of every five children in America lives below the poverty level; that two million Americans at the top earn as much income as 100 million Americans at the bottom; that the Republican leaders think so little of American citizens they dare not articulate the sacrifices that sooner or later must be made to solve the problems.
Mr. Gingrich should focus on some of the serious problems that concern the majority of Americans, instead of bashing New York City. I would just remind him: Do not be concerned with the speck in your neighbor's eye until you have removed the log from your own.
 
HAROLD E. DE BONA
Manchester, Vt., April 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); SUICIDE (71%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); INFANT MORTALITY (53%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (53%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (51%); BANK FAILURES (51%); SAVINGS & LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR); DEBONA, HAROLD E NEWT GINGRICH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



653 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Killing City's Dreams;
East Orange Sorrows Over 6 Deaths

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J., April 19

 BODY:
In the last week East Orange, a community long troubled by urban ills, has found itself defined, at least temporarily, by the conclusion that six women were murdered and their bodies discarded here beneath train trestles, along highway embankments or in abandoned buildings.
But if America's experience with mass murder is any guide, the geography of these killings was purely coincidental, not an indictment of a place or its people. "It could have happened anywhere" was a familiar refrain here last week. 
 And while two arrests in the case have helped to allay some fears, there remains a sense of sorrow that it did, indeed, happen here, in a city already weary with its struggle to sustain or attract a black middle class since the migration of whites to newer suburbs more than 25 years ago.
Once a true suburb of New York and Newark, East Orange now seems neither urban nor suburban, but instead a string of densely populated neighborhoods whose inhabitants have little in common with the well-to-do ruling class that built it.
With East Orange weighed down by a high crime rate, high property taxes and low property values, being middle class here may be more a state of mind than a statistical fact. By all standard measures, said George Sternlieb, professor emeritus of urban planning at Rutgers, East Orange represents the failure of black suburbanization.
"This is where we should have really focused all our energies, because no one really knew what to do with our central cities," he said. But with the black migration from Newark in the 1960's and 1970's, he said, a large economic vacuum left by retreating whites went unfilled, and the city's class structure was undermined.
Yet the suburban dream of property, comfort and safety lives on along many streets in this city of 73,000, where block after block of spacious turn-of-the-century homes still provide comfort, if not grandeur.
The dream is evident on Crawford Street, a residential block that would be typical, except that one of the murder victims lived there.
 
Was on Her Way Home
 It was at No. 70, a two-story white frame house near the corner of Rhode Island Avenue, that Elizabeth Clenor, 30 years old, the widowed mother of two young children, lived with her mother, Theresa James. Mrs. James has described her daughter as a hard worker who had held a series of jobs, as a food shop manager, cashier, even forklift operator. On Feb. 17, she telephoned to say she was on her way home, but she never arrived. Last Monday, the authorities announced that hers was one of three bodies found by the police on April 10.
The news was stunning, but the residents of Crawford Street, by most of their accounts, did not break stride. Their lives are bounded by work, home, children and school, and there is little time for anything else.
"I didn't know them, but I knew them by sight," said Clifton Miller, who lives across the street from No. 70 and who leaves the house at 4:30 A.M. on weekdays to drive a truck for a private hauler. "They were quiet. The whole street is very quiet."
In its two-block stretch from Tremont Avenue on the Newark border, Crawford Street has about 40 one- or two-family houses. And while few are trimmed with prosperity, most exude a sense of responsibility.
 
Knowing Few Neighbors
 Almost all are occupied by their owners, and few have changed hands in recent years. A pedestrian is a rare sight after 9 A.M. or before late afternoon.
Neighbors say they tend to know only those who live across the street, or upstairs, or next door. Few say they actually knew Ms. Clenor, who lived near one corner.
Thelma and Delmore Washington have owned half of a two-family house on Crawford Street for 20 years. They both recently retired, he as a ship's engineer in the merchant marine and she as a saleswoman at the Livingston Mall. Both of their sons went to college and now live in Union County. But for the Washingtons, East Orange is home.
"No reason to move," Mrs. Washington said.
That was not the case 20 years ago, when their sons were young and they moved into a new subdivision in another New Jersey town.
 
'There Were Some Incidents'
 "Our son was the first black in his school in 97 years," Mr. Washington said. "There were some incidents." They moved here and put their sons in a New Jersey prep school.
"What happened was very sad," Mrs. Washington said of the killings. "It could have happened any place, but it's sad."
Their neighbors are Billie and Harry Wilson and their 8-year-old son, Jon-Nicholas. When the Wilsons bought their 70-year-old house six years ago, the interior wood trim was in great shape, and they reinstalled a pair of French doors -- "in the attic since '45," Mrs. Wilson said.
The Wilsons moved from Jamaica, Queens, she said, because "there was more real estate for the dollar here." Mrs. Wilson, a former secretary at CBS in Manhattan, takes temporary jobs now, and her husband, an illustrator and editor of manuals for a shipbuilder, was laid off recently."
Crime is not a factor. "I don't even think about it," she said. "The neighbors next door have a Doberman and the lights outside are on all night."
"The block has improved since we got here," she said, pointing to a bright white house across the street. "It seems like everybody put new siding on."
But upward mobility in East Orange cannot be assured. With the recession losses felt more keenly here and little industry to bank on, its potential as an emerging zone for the black middle class has not been realized as it was for whites decades ago.
"East Orange entered the 20th century a city of well-appointed homes and prospering businesses, one of the state's wealthiest communities," according to a history published to commemorate its centennial in 1964.
Upper Central Avenue became a suburban Fifth Avenue, with branches of New York merchandising giants like Best & Company, B. Altman and Black, Starr & Gorham. Later, dozens of insurance companies moved here. Today, the low-rise storefronts are occupied mainly with small variety and food stores that replaced the more prosperous chains and large anchor stores.
Two monumental roadbuilding projects proved decisive, but not helpful. The Garden State Parkway and Route 280 sliced the city in quadrants with an effect that recalls the damage of the Cross Bronx Expressway in the Bronx. The parkway, the state's great north-south coastal highway, replaced a more modest lane called Oraton Parkway, tearing up the parklike median that stretched through the city like a carpet.
Route 280, an east-west cut from Newark to the western part of Essex County, should have proved a catalyst for businesses along its length, but did not. Four of the murder victims were found on and around the embankments and underpasses of these roads and nearby train tracks.
What these capital improvements began, the 1967 Newark riots finished, with a migration to East Orange, its nearest suburb.
"In the larger context, the white middle class moved into the true middle class, i.e. stored wealth, with the capacity to support their kids, their housing, or by going into business," Dr. Sternlieb said. "And they did it through real estate."
But an East Orange house that sells for $85,000 could bring three times that or more in Millburn, just six miles away, he said.
"If you move through most of New Jersey suburbia, and if you just sat on your property and you were fortunate, you could get 10 times your money," he said. "It was the super Christmas club. But East Orange failed. That is its terrible final tragedy."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A map yesterday with an article about East Orange, N.J., misidentified two major highways. South of Perth Amboy, the New Jersey Turnpike runs into the western part of the state and the Garden State Parkway runs along the shore.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The house at 70 Crawford Street was home to one of the six women found murdered in East Orange, N.J. Elizabeth Clenor, the widowed mother of two young children, had lived there with her mother. (Najlah Feanny for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Map: Shows the location of East Orange, New Jersey. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST ORANGE (NJ) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BLACKS (IN US); MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS MURDER (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CHILDREN (85%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992



654 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL: THE PLAYOFF PICTURE
Knicks Seek Second Wind and Nets Hope They're Not Blown Away;
Fitch's Squad Hits Its Stride

BYLINE: By AL HARVIN

 BODY:
After Derrick Coleman and Chris Morris both refused to obey Coach Bill Fitch and go back into games last week, the conventional wisdom was that the Nets were a team in the process of self-destructing.
On Saturday night, however, New Jersey showed it is a team that defies conventional wisdom: The Nets defeated the Orlando Magic, 127-111, at Byrne Meadowlands Arena to advance to the National Basketball Association playoffs for the first time since 1986. 
 Coleman had 31 points, hitting 12 of 17 shots from the field. Morris scored 22, including 16 in the third quarter, when the Nets put the game away, finishing at 40-42 and nailing down sixth place in the Eastern Conference and a first-round playoff matchup with the Cavaliers, beginning Thursday in Richfield, Ohio.
"I congratulated the guys, said they worked hard and said they proved they deserved to be here," Fitch said after the game.
The 57-year-old Fitch, who is in his 21st season as an N.B.A. coach, refuses to compare this Nets team to his teams in Cleveland, Boston and Houston, but he has helped in a task of franchise rejuvenation in New Jersey just as he did in those cities.
In 1976, he won the league's coach-of-the-year award in Cleveland, and in 1980, he won it a second time with the Celtics. He should probably get at least a nomination for a third such award, considering how the Nets, who started the regular season at 2-11, finished. Despite the lingering bad feelings, New Jersey won 9 of its last 12 games and had a 21-14 record after the All-Star Game.
Fitch has been playing down his team's squabbling. "I don't believe in fining because it's like so much Monopoly money to these guys anyway," he has said. "By the time you fine and suspend and get the players coming in with their collars on straight and saying yes sir and no sir, you look up and you're 10 games out of the playoffs. So what good does it do?"
This little experiment in group dynamics has apparently worked for the time being, but the Nets will resume practice today, on the Fairleigh Dickinson campus in Teaneck, with some large questions looming about their future:
What's the significance of the Nets' having finally made the playoffs again?
True, it has been only two years since they finished with the worst record in the league, after Fitch took over for Willis Reed, who moved upstairs to the general manager's office. But the coach could still find himself unemployed later this year if the team does not at least make a respectable showing against the Cavaliers. The teams split their four games during the regular season, with each winning its home games.
By making the playoffs, the Nets won't have a first-round pick in this year's draft. But that shouldn't be a problem. Morris was the fourth player chosen over all in 1988; Mookie Blaylock was 12th in 1989; Coleman was first in 1990, and Kenny Anderson second in 1991. And Reed has a couple of second-round picks to use.
"This team is so young already, I don't think I'd want to have any rookies on it for the next four, five years," Reed, the club's senior vice president of basketball operations, said recently.
He is also adept at acquiring talent in other ways, witness Sam Bowie, Drazen Petrovic, Terry Mills and Chris Dudley, who were acquired in trades, and Rafael Addison, who was lured from Europe.
What are the keys to the Nets' doing well against Cleveland?
First, of course, New Jersey must find some semblance of team harmony.
Second, the Nets reserves must continue to play as well as they have been. Coleman, the league's rookie of the year last season, missed 17 games this season with various ailments, but Mills filled in ably at strong forward.
Dudley started 21 games in relief of Sam Bowie, and is averaging more rebounds than the starting center, 9 to 8.1, and more blocks, 2.1 to 1.67, although Bowie leads him in scoring, 15.0 to 5.6, and assists, 2.6 to 0.7.
The Nets proved they can win on the road this season, finishing with 15 road victories, the most since 1984-85.
They must use their youth to their advantage.
"We're not supposed to be here, so we'll go in feeling very loose," Bowie said. "I think it will be an exciting series and we won't embarrass the state of New Jersey. We're a confident group going in."
How far can they go?
It's going to be awfully tough to get past Cleveland (56-25), a team with a first-rate center in Brad Daugherty and one of the league's best floor leaders in Mark Price. But advancing is not really the point for the Nets this time around.
"The main goal was to get this franchise a winner, get it back where it had some respect, where something was expected of it besides losing, and now they've got that," said Fitch. "Now each guy has got an obligation to be here this time next year and the year after that because they're young players.
"I've said all along that winning is a lot harder to live up to than losing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Fitch (pg. C1); Derrick Coleman, an enigma to his coach but talented enough to dominate a game by himself, gives the Nets a shot against Cleveland. (pg. C3) (Photographs by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); ORLANDO MAGIC (57%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%); BOSTON CELTICS (54%); BOSTON CELTICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); ORLANDO MAGIC (57%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%); BOSTON CELTICS (54%); BOSTON CELTICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES BASKETBALL (94%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 

PERSON: HARVIN, AL; FITCH, BILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



655 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Battered Men Sounding Equal-Rights Battle Cry

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
After 15 years of publicity about the plight of battered women, battered men are beginning to demand equal time. Increasingly, men who say they have been victims of domestic violence are challenging the dogma that all violent spouses are male and are lobbying for changes in counseling, shelters and, above all, public perceptions dealing with domestic abuse.
 "We are just beginning to say, 'Hey, men, if you are being slapped, kicked or punched, that's illegal and you don't have to take it anymore,' " said George Gilliland Sr. of St. Paul, founder of the Domestic Rights Coalition, an advocacy group that plans to open the first shelter for battered men later this year. "We want equality. Let the cell doors slam shut behind women just as they do on men." 
The statistical underpinnings of this emerging branch of the men's rights movement come from several studies with surprising findings: that wives assault their husbands as often as husbands assault their wives.
 But the idea that battered men can be equated with battered women is disputed even by the author of the 1985 study most often quoted for that proposition. Because men are bigger and stronger, says the author, Murray Straus of the University of New Hampshire's Family Research Laboratory, their assaults are far more likely to cause serious injury.
 "From a policy standpoint, the emphasis should be on battered women, because women suffer by far the most injuries," he said in an interview. "But I am an absolutist against violence, and I think it's important to recognize that women are just as likely to use violence as men. If you're looking at assaults, not at who gets injured, it's one to one, women and men."
 For many feminists, those findings, and their use by men's-rights advocates, raise troubling questions about where the quest for equality crosses the line into misogyny, and when the swing of the social pendulum becomes an all-out backlash against feminism.
 "It's such a twisting of things to ignore the reality that women live in fear of men and men do not live in fear of women," said Ellen Pence, a founder of the Domestic Abuse Intervention Project in Duluth, Minn. "Domestic violence against men is just not a social problem."
 Men who are victims of domestic violence, however, say they suffer a special stigma. They complain bitterly of the injustice of a system that would punish them harshly for hitting back, but gives them no help in stopping their wives' assaults, and often treats the whole situation as comic.
 Mr. Straus's study surveyed 6,000 married and cohabiting couples, asking each spouse how often they or their partner used particular tactics, violent or nonviolent, to resolve conflicts.
 Women in the study were slightly more likely than men to have slapped, kicked, bitten or punched, hit or tried to hit with something or threatened with a gun or knife. Men were slightly more likely than women to have beaten up their spouses or choked them. Both sexes were equally likely to have used a knife or a gun on their partner. The overall finding that women were as assaultive as men matched that of a similar study Mr. Straus conducted 10 years earlier.
 
'A License for Hitting'
"I was originally very surprised at the numbers on women assaulting men but I shouldn't have been, given the cultural messages that it's O.K. to slap the cad if he gets fresh, or chase him with a frying pan." Mr. Straus said. "In this society, family relationships seem to be a license for hitting, whether it's women assaulting men, men assaulting women or parents assaulting their children."
 Many advocates for battered women say that despite Mr. Straus's reputation as an early researcher on battered wives, his findings are an outrageous skewing of the truth. It is misleading to speak of men and women as equally assaultive, they say, when it is almost always the women who live with broken bones, repeated visits to the emergency room and a constant fear for their lives.
 "Women abused by male partners tend to sustain multiple injuries to multiple sites of the body, an injury pattern not seen in men assaulted by female partners," said Dr. Angela Browne of the University of Massachusetts Medical School. The Straus findings also fail to measure whether the women's violence is in response to prior aggression or threats by the partner. Dr. Browne and Ms. Pence say that the results are misleading because they fail to reflect the reality of a male-dominated society.
 
Men Assail the System
 Men who have lived with violence, however, complain that though men may dominate, women are wrongly seen as the only victims. Mr. Gilliland likes to tell how he was arrested and charged with domestic assault although he says he never retaliated against the former wife who yelled at him, pushed him and threw hot coffee at him.
 "We were having a family argument in 1988, and she said something about calling the cops and getting me thrown out," he said. "I said, 'All right, I'll call the cops.' She ran out and screamed, 'Take me to a battered women's shelter,' and they took me to jail. The system is 100 percent stacked against men."
 Even the most ardent advocates for battered women acknowledge that women can be assaultive. Indeed, one of the 13 therapy groups in Ms. Pence's intervention program is for assaultive women. But, Ms. Pence said, in a decade of domestic-violence work she encountered only one man truly battered by his wife and more than a thousand such women.
 
Man Trapped and Hurt
 "There was one man with a hearing aid, who thought his wife was very beautiful and above him, and she used to come up behind him and whack him on both ears," she said. "He felt trapped and he was getting hurt, and it was exactly like talking to a battered woman. His life was not in danger, but it was dominated by physical and emotional abuse, which didn't stop until he left her."
 A major difference between battered wives and battered husbands, she said, is that when men leave the relationship, the violence almost always stops, while when women leave, the violence often escalates, forcing the woman to seek court protective orders, go to a shelter, or flee.
 "When the woman leaves is usually the most dangerous time, which is why we need battered-women's shelters," said Ms. Pence, who is currently studying in Canada.
 About a third of all female murder victims in the United Sates are killed by their husbands or boyfriends, according to Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Reports, compared with about 5 percent of male murder victims who are killed by their wives or girlfriends. And while estimates vary, experts agree that many male murder victims are killed by women acting in self-defense.
 The majority of domestic assaults, by husbands or wives, cause no injury, much less the murderous brutality marking high-profile cases like that of Hedda Nussbaum in New York, or Francine Hughes, the woman whose story was told in the television movie "The Burning Bed." While such stories have raised public consciousness of battered wives, the idea that men can be victims of domestic violence is still alien to many people.
 "I did a talk show a couple weeks ago, where a woman called up and said she had chased her husband around with a clawhammer and the audience laughed," Mr. Gilliland said. "A lot of people think it's hilarious, and ask why the guy doesn't turn around and hit her, but most men have brought up to think that above all, you don't hit a woman."
 As a result, many men whose wives have assaulted them say they are mocked, or ignored, if they report their experiences. And in most parts of the country, men have no access to the counseling and support networks established for battered women.
 "I went to a pay phone and called the police after years of abuse, when my wife locked her arms around my neck from behind and knocked me to the floor," said James Blanchard, a 48-year old Connecticut man who later divorced his wife. "The police officer met me at the phone and argued against my filing charges. But he came back to the house with me, and when he confronted my wife and she admitted it, he referred us to counseling."
 
Turned Away by Agency
 Mr. Blanchard made an appointment at the recommended private agency, which also runs a shelter for battered women. But the agency refused him shelter because he was a man. He then filed a complaint with the Connecticut Human Rights Commissioner, which was settled in 1985 with an agreement that both the private agency and the state agency that helps finance it would end their discriminatory practices.
 "There are still very, very few resources for battered men," said Mr. Blanchard, who now counsels other men. "I'm near bankruptcy now, and like most men who are victims of domestic violence, I've found it very hard to get myself back together. I try to talk to young men, and tell them that not all the women out there are parasites."
 Counselors at shelters for homeless men say many battered husbands end up there.
 "At any given time, 2 or 3 of the 20 men at our shelter are referred here because they are victims of domestic violence," said Mark Price, a counselor at the Arlington, Va., shelter for homeless men. "It's usually men who are unemployed and have a problem with low self-esteem. This is not as rare as people seem to think."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 1992, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 20 described efforts by men's rights groups to change the perception that domestic violence affects only women. It included quotations from George Gilliland Sr. of St. Paul, founder of the Domestic Rights Coalition, an advocacy group that he said planned to open a shelter for battered men.
Since the article appeared, additional information about Mr. Gilliland has emerged, including that a court ordered him to stay away from one of his ex-wives, because of his threats of violence, and that his two other ex-wives also sought court protection from him. Moreover, experts in domestic violence say his group actually defends men accused of battering women rather than men who have been battered.
Any account of Mr. Gilliland's position on domestic violence should have included these facts and allegations about him and his organization.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Hey, men, if you are being slapped, kicked or punched, that's illegal and you don't have to take it anymore," said George Gilliland Sr., founder of the Domestic Rights Coalition, at his office in St. Paul. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (57%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); 

CITY: DULUTH, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DOMESTIC RIGTHS COALITION UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOMESTIC RIGTHS COALITION UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); MINNESOTA, USA (57%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); DULUTH, MN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BATTERED SPOUSES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; WOMEN; MEN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (94%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN (78%); MEN (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); COHABITATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: GILLILAND, GEORGE JR; LEWIN, TAMAR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1992



656 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
CHINA AS WALLFLOWER
China seems out of step with the world as it faces what party leaders have called two new cold wars in the aftermath of the last one. A1
A Chinese official has been expelled from the Communist Party. A10
 
KUWAIT'S LAKES OF POLLUTION
Sprawling lakes of oil that seeps into soil and kills plants and insects has become Kuwait's main environmental worry since the smoke of burning oil wells cleared. A1
 
ARMS TRANSFERS CONFIRMED
Washington confirmed that Saudi Arabia had illegally transferred American-made military equipment to Iraq, Syria and Bangladesh, but that the Saudis had said the shipments were "inadvertent." A9
 
BREAK WITH YUGOSLAVIA?
The U.S. is considering severing diplomatic relations with the Serb-dominated Government of Yugoslavia and closing the United States Embassy in Belgrade. A3
 
KEEPER OF AFGHANISTAN'S FATE
Much of the Afghan capital's fate lies in the hand of a soft-spoken guerrilla commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, the mastermind behind the ouster of President Najibullah. A8

An Islamic rebel government is foreseen for Afghanistan. A8
 
KHMER ROUGE SIGNS COMMITMENT
The Khmer Rouge, which was responsible for countless deaths during its reign in Cambodia, joined the nation's three other factions in signing two international commitments to respect human rights. A6
 
SYRIA CHAFES AT SANCTIONS
Syria, uneasy over the United Nations embargo against Libya, has produced the first crack in widespread adherence to the sanctions by the Arab world. A5
 
ABORTION RESTRICTIONS SOUGHT
Opposing public opinion, Poland's Roman Catholic Church and its Government supporters have redoubled efforts to limit abortion. A3
 
Seville Journal: Expo '92 opens with icebergs and aquariums. A4
In Luena, Angola, salvation flies on the wings of an Ilyushin-76. A8
Israeli officials said they would reopen an Arab University. A11
 
National A14-21
 
FOR THE RICH, A BIGGER SLICE
The very rich accumulated a larger share of the nation's total pool of privately held property in the 1980's economic boom, researchers at the Federal Reserve and the Internal Revenue Service reported. The richest households accounted for 37 percent of private net worth in 1989, up from 31 percent in 1983. A1
 
SHORTAGE OF BLACK PH.D.'S
Many factors have been blamed for the steep decline in the number of black men who get doctorates, but now some educators say another major cause is that universities make it easier for foreigners to get the financial aid than the nation's blacks. A1
 
WEAK SPOT FOR CLINTON?
Governor Clinton touts his work on the environment, but during his tenure Alabama's White River region has become fouled with slime in the water and dead fish on the banks. President Bush is debating whether to visit the area as part of his re-election campaign. A20
 
RECRUITING CHARACTER WITNESSES
Governor Clinton asked a hometown audience to tell the rest of the nation that his character and record were true. A20
Perot spent $400,000 on his unofficial campaign last month. A21
 
LIMITING THE FEDERAL COURTS
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether to limit Federal court review of state convictions that may have been obtained in violation of the Miranda rule. A15
 
DEATH PENALTY MARCHES AHEAD
As California prepared to end a 25-year moratorium on capital punishment, people on both sides of the issue cast the state's action as a bellwether for the nation. A14
 
BEATING TRIAL NEARS END
Prosecutors made closing arguments against four white Los Angeles police officers charged in the case of Rodney King, the black motorist whose beating was captured on videotape. A14
 
A LONG ROAD TO RECOVERY
Three months after his arms were torn off and reattached, a North Dakota teen-ager spends six hours with his physical therapist. He starts with jokes, but soon the strain of the therapy and prolonged uncertainty takes its toll. A16
 
PUTTING ELOQUENCE IN HIS MOUTH
Since Chief Seattle died in 1866, environmentalists have imbued him with the oratorical and prophetic gifts of an Abraham Lincoln. But a number of historians say the Northwest Indian chief never said most of what he is supposed to have said. A1
 
Workers returned to Caterpillar, bitter and frustrated.A16
South Texas offered haven for the black rhinoceros. A14
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
DINKINS'S NEW HEALTH CARE PLAN
At a time of national debate over how best to deliver health care and still reduce costs, Mayor Dinkins said that New York City was planning to open 20 health centers to provide poor people with family doctors who will focus on preventive medicine. A1
 
WOOING AWAY BUSINESSES
Business leaders and economic development officials say that although poaching on other state's businesses is an old and honored game, the effort has taken on new sophistication and aggressiveness in the last few years. And Connecticut has become a target. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Science Times C1-10
How the metabolic chemistry of hibernation keeps the bear alive. C1
Aggressive pose of young black males under psychologists' eye. C1
Lost city emerges from sands. C1
Speeded approval for an AIDS drug is said to be justified. C3
Fate of an ancient symbol, the giant crane, hangs in the balance. C4
 
Fashion Page B7
What to wear in a recession.
 
Obituaries B6
Benny Hill, British comedian
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
A challenge for rap music. C13
Shelley Duvall, storyteller. C13
A board game for the greedy. C14
AIDS benefit concert. C14
Word and Image:
"Turtle Moon," a novel by Alice Hoffmann. C17
 
Sports B8-15
Baseball: Yanks lose to Indians. B9
Basketball: Far-away Knicks. B14
Hockey: Rangers toughen up. B12
Another North Stars upset. B15
Running: Hussein and Markova win Boston Marathon. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
Editorials A22
Abortion bullying in Buffalo.
Risky "realism" in Peru.
Mr. Bush's botched bundles.
Seawolf and jobs.
 
Letters A22
Russell Baker: The civility plank. A23
A. M. Rosenthal: The wasteland myth. A23
Michael Dorris: Noble savages? We'll drink to that. A23
Stansfield Turner: Freeze-dry The Bomb. A23

GRAPHIC: Photo: King Juan Carlos opened the world's fair in Seville. (Associated Press) A4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SYRIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); SERBIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); POLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SYRIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); SERBIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); POLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); LAKES (77%); ARMS TRADE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); RELIGION (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); ABORTION (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



657 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: States See Connecticut Business as Ripe for Picking

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, April 20

 BODY:
Murray A. Gerber, whose small plastics company is hardly known outside Middletown, Conn., was stunned to get a personal invitation to lunch earlier this month with the former governor of Virginia, Gerald L. Baliles.
Mr. Baliles made a personal pitch about the virtues of Virginia as a possible new home for Mr. Gerber's 60-employee company, Prototype and Plastic Mold, and Mr. Gerber said that when he left the restaurant he was "impressed as hell." 
 "He was a wonderful salesman," Mr. Gerber said.
Kansas has offered free trips to business owners in Connecticut thinking about the Great Plains. Maryland provides a cash bonus for every new employee. Other states have developed data bases that show when Connecticut business leases expire so they can make a polite telephone call precisely six months before.
If all is fair in love and war, then add the interstate competition for business to the list. Business leaders and economic development officials say that although poaching on other state's businesses is an old and honored game, the effort has taken on new sophistication and aggressiveness in the last few years.
And Connecticut has become a target. With well-publicized turmoil in the state budget, rising taxes and the adoption of an income tax last year, other states seem to have more or less declared open season here.
"Problems with taxes, problems with the Governor -- there's a feeling of instability," said Ted M. Levine, president of Development Counselors International, a private economic development company in New York. "And where there's trouble, the vultures sweep in."
Mr. Levine and other experts said that while companies in New York and New Jersey have long been among the prized trophies of relocation hunters, Connecticut's reputation as a low-tax state with a pro-business Yankee tradition kept many poachers at the border until the last few years.
 
'Fight of Our Lives'
 "We're in the fight of our lives," said Connecticut's Commissioner of Economic Development, Joseph McGee, whose assignment is to retain manufacturing, which Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. has identified as the state's bedrock economic base.
Until recently, Connecticut was regarded more as predator than prey, beckoning to New York City-based companies especially, with appeals to their bottom line and to the happiness of their workers, who would pay no state income tax. But the wage tax, combined with a decade of soaring home prices and property taxes, have made the state less competitive and less appealing, many business people say.
Connecticut has lost almost 25 percent of its manufacturing jobs since 1985, according to the New England Economic Project, an economic research group. Cutbacks in military spending -- a major contributor to the economy -- promise to compounded those losses in the 1990's.
There are no statistics about how many companies have left the state, but there is a sense of what types of companies are being wooed: mid-sized manufacturers, especially high-tech suppliers, with skilled workers -- the very kinds of companies that are typically lacking in lower-wage states that can offer the best relocation deals.
Business organizations and state officials say that image and momentum are greater enemies than the recession. In the network of who's who and who's going where, each move causes ripples. Mr. Gerber, for example, said he looked at Virginia specifically because the Stanley Works, the toolmaker that is one of the oldest and most revered names in Connecticut industry, chose that state in 1990 to build a new consumer hardware manufacturing plant. He wants to see Atlanta because United Parcel Service of America, Inc. moved its headquarters there from Greenwich.
"There's a pretty broad recognition across the nation that Connecticut had become difficult," said Richard H. Ayers, chairman and chief executive officer of the Stanley Works, which was founded in Connecticut 149 years ago, but now has all but 2,100 of its 18,000 employees elsewhere. "I don't think there's a day goes by that I don't receive something from a state outside Connecticut," Mr. Ayers said.
And some of the arguments are hard to resist.
At the American Cyanamid Company, which has 30 chemical plants around the nation, workers' compensation costs are 10 times higher in Connecticut than in any of the other states where the company has plants, a fact competing states seldom grow tired of repeating, said Bob Leitzman, manager of the company's Wallingford resins and plastics factory. Many executives said they had been promised a minimum 10 percent increase in profits because of lower wages, lower taxes, or other incentives, especially in the South.
But Connecticut's efforts to fight back have propelled it on an odyssey of its own, as state officials try to shore up the business environment, and at the same time decide what the environment should be. Mr. Weicker, who pushed through a personal income tax law last year in part, he said, to relieve tax pressures on business, has focused his efforts on retaining high-tech, especially aerospace-related manufacturers.
 
Marketing the State
 And next month the state will start a national marketing campaign -- its first ever -- to fight the talk that Connecticut is a bad place to be in business.
But business leaders say the effort has been spotty and sometimes erratic. Two weeks ago, for instance, Mr. Weicker and other state leaders held a news conference in an empty warehouse in Avon to announce that one 85-employee company that makes aircraft fuel connectors had been given several millions of dollars in grants and loans to stay in the state.
Mr. Gerber, on the other hand, who also has aviation clients, has had one brief conversation, last summer, with someone at the Department of Economic Development who never called back.
"What we have now is an attempt to fight fires -- there doesn't seem to me to be an overall economic plan," said Edward J. Deak, the chairman of the economics department at Fairfield University. "I don't think there's any attempt to say, 'are these the kinds of companies we want to retain, is this the best place to spend the funds and effort,' " he said.
Mr. McGee said his agency has a four-step screening process to identify which companies to try to retain, and he says that while a full industrial policy will eventually emerge, there is no time to spare. Rockbestos, a wire and cable maker, has been helped in recent weeks, as have two gun companies, Colt's Manufacturing and U.S. Repeating Arms.
Through various publicly controlled agencies, the state can issue and guarantee loans, make direct stock investments, issue grants and help negotiate local property-tax breaks and reduced utility costs.
The state Legislature is also considering bills to provide additional tax breaks and speed up the processing of permits by the Department of Environmental Protection.
For companies that are caught in such a flux, the winds are strong indeed. Mr. Ayers at Stanley Works said he believed that if current trends continue, he could envision a time, perhaps by the middle of this decade, when expanding a business here could make economic sense.
Mr. Gerber at Prototype and Plastic Mold said the decision to think about moving has brought forth emotions he had not expected. He founded his company 24 years ago in a corn crib in Haddam.
And state officials fairly jump with glee when word filters back about someone who left and did not like it so much.
The chairman of United Parcel Service, Kent C. Nelson, recently complained, for example, about the quality of schools in Georgia, the company's new home state, and state officials here immediately began a low-level whispering campaign.
Mr. Nelson told an audience of Atlanta's civic and business leaders that the company and its employees had benefited from lower costs, but he added that Atlanta is not paradise. "Had our relocation decision rested on education quality alone," he said, "it's safe to say we would not be here today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With its low-tax status a thing of the past, Connecticut finds itself under intense fire from other states as they try to lure away its businesses. State-produced publications are among their weapons. (The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PROTOTYPE & PLASTIC MOLD CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PLASTICS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRENDS (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); INCOME TAX (65%); HOME PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



658 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Candidate's Record;
Arkansas Water Pollution Looms as a Campaign Issue

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EUREKA SPRINGS, Ark.

 BODY:
Four years after George Bush took a famous boat ride through Boston's polluted harbor and took control of the environmental debate in his Presidential quest, environmental specialists in the Administration say Mr. Bush's re-election campaign is now deciding whether to make a similar campaign stop here in northwest Arkansas.
Across this splendid region of hump-backed hills, hardwood forests and emerald pastures an angry struggle has erupted over wastes from hundreds of millions of farm animals. 
 The waste is draining from the land and polluting the White River and its tributaries, a network of streams nationally acclaimed for trout fishing and canoeing, and critics blame Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democrat likely to run against Mr. Bush, for being slow to react.
Mr. Clinton's top environmental aides vigorously defend him, saying that in his 12 years as this state's chief executive he has balanced two important concerns, economic growth and environmental protection.
But both Mr. Clinton's critics and supporters say the deterioration of the White River region has made him vulnerable to political attack.
"Clinton's guys in Little Rock say they have the situation under control," said Skip Halterman, a 47-year-old guide who has fished in the White River basin of northwestern Arkansas all his life. "It's not true. Not a one of them has walked these streams, floated these rivers or seen the pollution up close. What they're doing is all a show to keep what's happening to our water from becoming Bill Clinton's Boston Harbor."
Officials of President Bush's campaign organization are considering a campaign stop in this area to highlight Mr. Clinton's environmental record, or sending a television production crew to the region to film a political advertisement, say top environmental policy specialists in the White House, the Office of Management and Budget and the Interior Department.
In some ways, the deterioration of the White River is a new problem for Governor Clinton. As a candidate for President, he is being judged by different standards than he has been while Governor. During his first term, from 1978 to 1980, only a dozen or so advocates were prominently expressing concern about the state's environment.
 
An Interest in Jobs
 There was more concern about the economy in this, one of the nation's poorest states. Many people argue that the most pressing issue should be economic development, and a certain amount of environmental cost is the price of propserity, and aggressive environmental regulations raise costs and could make the state less attractive for industrial investments.
In the interest of jobs, Mr. Clinton encouraged the development of a formidable animal agriculture industry, and it is now the nation's eighth largest. Much of the industry, which produces 1 billion animals a year, is in the state's northwestern region, where they produce as much organic waste each year as New York and Los Angeles. Most of that winds up being spread on the land as fertilizer.
His aides say that when he learned that scientists were linking declining water quality to the industry's wastes, he formed a task force to solve the problem.
But Mr. Halterman and other critics point out that the 28-member panel is dominated by representatives of the poultry, hog and cattle industries. Several panelists, including some state officials, agreed that the group's agenda was heavily influenced by representatives of the poultry industry, the Farm Bureau and cattlemen's association.
Mr. Clinton's critics also noted that he formed the task force only after John Tyson, vice-chairman of operations for Tyson Foods formed a similar panel to develop practices that would minimize pollution from chicken farms.
 
Tourist Industry in Jeopardy
 The condition of the White River is now changing the views of many Arkansas residents. The river is known to fishermen nationwide for its trophy-size trout. And its problems strike at the heart of what many people think is special about living here. As Bill Bowen, Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, put it recently: "The eternal paradox of Arkansas is that all of us want a modern economy, a VCR, a big pickup -- and we still want to be able drive no more than a mile to be in the woods and go fishing."
The White River's problems seem to be jeopardizing the second half of that equation. Each of the last two summers, dead German brown trout and rainbow trout washed up by the dozens in the tailwaters below the dam that forms Bull Shoals Lake, suffocated by a lack of oxygen in the water. Potentially dangerous concentrations of fecal bacteria have made more than 400 miles of streams unfit for swimming.
Canoeists and fishermen no longer flock here as they once did. Hotel and motel owners say the region's $300 million a year tourism industry is in jeopardy.
Almost everybody interviewed for this article said that while Mr. Clinton has been in office, 1978-80, then 1982 until now, the water quality in the White River and its countless tributaries has grown worse. The only exceptions were his top aides and executives of poultry and hog companies, led by Tyson Foods, based in Springdale.
 
Wide Extent of Pollution
 The debate over whether it is fair to blame Mr. Clinton is likely to continue through the Presidential campaign. What is not debatable is the extent of the pollution.
This resort town once had pure mineral springs and streams so clear that the gravel gleamed like polished amethyst and jade. Today, not a single spring is safe to drink.
After light rains, animal wastes wash off the land, and springs in neighboring Boone County become more contaminated with fecal bacteria than New York Harbor, a study by the United States Geological Survey, a unit of the Interior Department, found.
Nearly every scientist who has studied the contamination says manure is being too heavily applied as a fertilizer and soil conditioner to cropland and pastures. Nitrogen and phosphorous not used up by the crops drains into streams and ground water.
But in a region where most homes have shallow wells, and fresh water is the lifeblood of an economy based on cattle, hogs and chickens, many residents have a more pointed explanation for the contamination. They say that the deteriorating water quality is a result of political choices, especially Governor Clinton's reluctance to challenge Arkansas's rich and powerful poultry industry.
"In his first term, Bill Clinton took on Georgia-Pacific," to stop clear-cutting of timber in the state by the the huge paper and wood products company, but was unsuccessful, said James Lingle, an environmental lawyer in Rogers who has known and supported the Governor for 20 years. "It was a big factor in why he lost after one term," Mr. Lingle said. "You can fight that big industrial windmill like the paper companies and the chicken processors, or you can be Governor of this state. When he was re-elected in 1982, Bill Clinton decided he wanted to be Governor."
In 1990, after nearly a decade as the state's chief executive, Mr. Clinton formed the task force on animal waste. Its mission was to develop voluntary programs to persuade poultry and cattle farmers to store and spread manure more carefully. It was also to rewrite an old rule regulating the storage and use of liquid wastes from dairies, hog farms and egg-laying houses.
The task force's work has raised a furor in this region. Environmentalists say its proposals are almost identical to minimal rules that are already in place and will do little to clean the water. But farmers fear rising costs and bristle at more Government interference in their business.
Both groups, as well as people involved in tourism say that formation of the task force was a political gesture, and point out that it did not occur until Mr. Clinton decided to run for President.
 
'A Big Political Game'
 "What I'm worried about is that we farmers are pawns now in a big political game," said Jerry Hunton, a 41-year-old dairy and poultry farmer from Prairie Grove who is a Democratic first-term State Representative who says he supports Mr. Clinton.
Clinton's top environmental aides are working hard to counter the impression that the task force was motivated by political considerations. "We didn't know as much about this kind of pollution as we do now," said Kenneth L. Smith, Mr. Clinton's special assistant for natural and cultural resources. "As soon as this was brought to his attention, Governor Clinton acted as forcefully as state and Federal law would allow him to."
Pollution experts say Mr. Clinton had ample warning but has been consistently slow to react. In 1983, the development of a sinkhole in a creek near a water treatment plant in Green Forest allowed a million gallons a day of partially treated chicken wastes from the plant to drain into the underground water supply used by Green Forest residents. Seventeen months later, Mr. Clinton declared 60 square miles of Green Forest an "imminent health threat emergency."
In 1989, residents of Clifty confronted Tyson and the Clinton administration again after the Department of Pollution Control and Ecology allowed the company to spread chicken wastes from two plants in Rogers across mountain pastures there. The state also issued a permit for Tyson to build a 471,600-gallon chicken waste lagoon within 200 feet of a stream.
Wastes flowed off the hillsides, killing all the fish in two ponds built by John Obenshain, a cattle rancher in the community. Bacteria also contaminated his well, and the wells of several more families in the area, according to tests by the state Health Department.
"I was one of those guys who used to think that what happens on the other side of the fence is no concern to me and what happens on my side is no concern to them," said Mr. Obenshain. "But when it's coming over the fence and under the fence, I decided to do something about it."
Tyson voluntarily closed the lagoon in 1990 and pulled out of the community after the dispute became one of the region's top television news stories. John Tyson, the 38-year-old grandson of the founder of the $4 billion-a-year company, the nation's largest poultry producer and processor, said his company no longer uses lagoons to store plant wastes and will end the practice of spreading waste on land next month.
"We're all responsible for northwestern Arkansas," Mr. Tyson said. "We've got to get out of finger pointing and get down to what really needs to be done here. I live here. Our employees live here. It's a beautiful area, and we mean to keep it that way."
In little more than a generation northwest Arkansas has grown from a land of chicken-scratch farmers raising a few cattle, hens and hogs into one of the country's centers of industrialized animal agriculture. But the region's 350 million chickens and turkeys, 400,000 cattle and 500,000 hogs produce huge amounts of organic waste.
Amid the concern about pollution, farmers look at all the waste, particularly the 300,000 tons of "litter" cleaned out of chicken houses, and see grass, miles of green grass for grazing. The litter, spread across the land, turned ruined ground into fertile soil. Washington and Benton counties west of here are now productive cattle-raising areas after being fertilized.
"When I came here in the 1940's, this land was nothing but dry sand with gullies so deep you could hide a tractor in them," said Floyd Hunton, Jerry Hunton's father who established the family's farm in Prairie Grove. "Chicken litter made this country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Critics see the White River region in Arkansas as an area where the Democratic Presidential contender is vulnerable to attack. Skip Halterman, above, who fly fishes in the river outside Eureka Springs, sees the pollution there becoming Gov. Bill Clinton's Boston Harbor; Chicken farms have added to the the pollution of the White River. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Map of Arkansas showing location of Eureka Springs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WHITE RIVER (ARK); ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 WATER POLLUTION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); RIVERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FISHES (75%); ANIMALS (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); NEW ISSUES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



659 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Syria Trying to Breach Air Embargo on Libya

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 20

 BODY:
Syria, uneasy over the United Nations embargo against Libya, has produced the first crack in widespread adherence to the sanctions by the Arab world.
Syrian officials, who have offered public support to Libya, tried unsuccessfully to get neighboring countries to give airspace clearance for a Syrian Arab Airlines jet that was scheduled to fly from Damascus to Tripoli today. 
 And the Syrian President, Hafez al-Assad, who has been touring Persian Gulf countries, is apparently trying to induce his neighbors to re-examine the embargo, Western diplomats said.
"The Syrians are worried, that if the Libyan sanctions are successful, they will be vulnerable," a diplomat said.
The embargo was put into effect on April 15 after the Libyans refused to turn over two suspects wanted in the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, in which 270 people died. It bans all air traffic in and out of Libya, calls for a reduction in Libyan diplomatic staff abroad and bans arms sales to Libya.
But Syria, which is on the State Department's list of countries that sponsor terrorism, fears that it may be next if the United Nations decides to sanction another state for terrorist activities, diplomats contend.
President Assad has held talks in Saudi Arabia with King Fahd and the Emir of Kuwait. He is scheduled to go on to Abu Dhabi and the three other Gulf Cooperation Council states, Bahrain, Qatar and Oman.
A high-ranking Syrian official, Tawfiq Salihah, in a visit to Libya over the weekend, announced Syria's support for the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
The public statement of support "raised the morale" of the Libyan people, Colonel Qaddafi said.
At the debate at the Security Council this month, the Syrian Foreign Minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, objected to the discussion, arguing that the Council did not have "the authority to discuss disputes of this kind." The state-controlled Syrian press has blasted the sanctions as "unjust" and called for "solidarity" with Libya.
In the Arab world only Iraq, under a much more severe United Nations embargo that also includes a ban on commercial flights, and the Sudan, with an Islamic fundamentalist Government at odds with the West, have said they would defy the sanctions.
But the Syrians did not openly defy the embargo until the announcement over the weekend that they would request permission for their scheduled commercial flight to travel to Libya. A spokesman for Syrian Arab Airlines said it would continue to try to obtain permission for flights to Libya. Civil aviation authorities in Cyprus and Greece refused to allow the Caravelle aircraft to enter their airspace on route to Libya.
[The Chicago Convention of 1945, which set international aviation rules that are still in effect, defines a country's airspace as ending only three miles from its shores. So a Syrian plane could fly over water to Libya without crossing any country's airspace and risking a legal interception by military aircraft, said Richard P. Magurno, an aviation lawyer at Lord Day & Lord, Barrett Smith in New York.
[But all of the air over the Mediterranean Sea has been divided up among the coastal countries' air traffic control regions. So a flight from Syria to Libya would need permission from some combination of air traffic controllers in Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Lebanon or Turkey, depending on the route chosen, said an airline industry official in the United States who insisted on anonymity.]
The Syrian defiance has signaled an open break with the Unites States. The relations between the two nations, distant and often hostile in the 1980's, reached their zenith during and just after the Persian Gulf war, when Syria sent troops to Saudi Arabia as part of the allied coalition forces. After the war, the Syrians assisted in gaining the release of the Western hostages from Lebanon, and Syrians took part in the Middle East peace process. The Syrians even expelled the terrorist known as Carlos, who is reported by Western diplomats to have taken refuge in Baghdad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); GULF STATES (93%); BAHRAIN (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); OMAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GREECE (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC SYRIAN ARAB AIRLINES (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA SYRIA (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); GULF STATES (93%); BAHRAIN (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); OMAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GREECE (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; LIBYA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) ; SALIHAH, TAWFIG; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



660 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The very rich accumulated a larger share of the nation's total pool of privately held property during the 1980's, researchers at the Fed and the I.R.S. reported. The richest 1 percent accounted for 37 percent of private net worth in 1989, up from 31 percent in 1983. [Page A1.] 
Connecticut has become a target of other states that are trying lure businesses away. [A1.]
 
Companies
 American Airlines cut full-coach and discount fares on many routes, in a calculated warning to weaker carriers not to try to undercut its new fare structure. The cuts could further weaken airlines like T.W.A. and America West. [D1.]
Alamo Rent A Car offered new, lower rates that would be uniform throughout its 102 locations nationwide. But the cuts did not immediately set off a price war. [D1.]
Olympia & York has so far been unable to persuade banks to provide it desperately needed fresh loans. If it does not get at least some of the money by the end of the week, it might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection for some of its assets. [D1.]
Hershey, following M&M Mars's lead, said consumers would get a 5-cent refund for each candy wrapper mailed in. [D9.]
The Express stores are a bit of Versailles tucked into 7,500 square feet of the local mall, and the young women's chic career and casual clothing they sell evokes Madison Avenue rather than Main Street. [D1.]
Ford had planned to have Jaguar profitable by now, but huge losses continue, which means plans for a smaller, sporty Jaguar will prove costly. [D1.]
Revlon said it was arranging a $500 million line of credit, but would not comment on industry speculation that the move could be a first step toward going public again. [D5.]
Caterpillar workers returned to their jobs, bitter and frustrated that their five-month strike brought them nothing. [A16.]
 
Earnings
Nationsbank's profit was up 95 percent, and Chase's up 20 percent. And at Dime Savings profits were up fivefold. Like most other banking companies, they were helped by a wider spread between rates they paid for deposits and rates collected on loans. [D1.]
Ralston Purina was off 12.5 percent, but Colgate-Palmolive posted a 25 percent gain. [D7.]
Capital Cities/ABC was off 29 percent, with ABC reporting a loss. [D23.]
 
Markets
Stock prices stumbled, losing the momentum gathered in last week's sparkling rally. The Dow, after soaring more than 110 points last week, gave back 30.19, ending at 3,336.31. [D10.]
The battered Tokyo stock market continued to settle into a deep rut that a growing number of Government officials and investment experts say could last for months. [D2.]
Prices of Treasury securities tumbled and long-term interest rates moved above 8 percent again. [D19.]
Wheat futures prices rallied amid expectations of new export sales and deepening worries about the winter wheat crop. [D20.] The dollar was mostly lower in extremely quiet trading. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
Caterpillar's threat to replace strikers raised an unresolved issue: Is it less costly to settle with strikers or to hire new people and train them? Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
T<2> Medical's stock plunged nearly 20 percent in the wake of an earnings report only a penny a share below expectations. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
Ad executives involved in an anti-AIDS campaign say they are making headway but are frustrated at a lack of progress in getting free ad time and space. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (51%); ABC INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STRIKES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



661 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Eligibility Checks Drag as Applicants Surge

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
New York City has been so swamped with people seeking welfare benefits in the last year that it has fallen way behind on checking to see that those already on the rolls are still poor enough to qualify for help.
The delays in checking eligibility mean the city may have paid out as much as $5 million more than it should have in welfare benefits, state social-services officials say. 
 To prod the city to ease the problem, the state is withholding $870,000 from the city until the city's Human Resources Administration reviews 35,000 overdue welfare cases. Typically, about 5 percent of those families would be removed from the rolls after the mandatory review of cases.
City caseworkers are required to interview each welfare recipient in person every six months. The workers ask recipients if they have found work, have married or had a child turn 18 years old -- all changes that could cut the size of their welfare benefit or eliminate it entirely.
But it has been at least a year since the city interviewed people in 35,000 of the 475,000 households on welfare rolls. The recertification process is meant to curb welfare costs and make sure only those who need the help get it. The problem was reported in The Daily News on Sunday.
"It's been a problem from time to time, but it's never been this big a problem," said Terrance McGrath, a spokesman for the State Social Services Department. "This is directly related to the recession."
The city submitted a plan addressing the problem last month. But the state and the city are still haggling over specifics. Neither side would comment on the city's proposals.
State, city and union officials all agree on the cause of the problem: the number of caseworkers has not risen fast enough to keep up with the staggering rise in the number of people applying for welfare.
From 1991 to this year, the number of households on welfare has risen a staggering 33 percent. In the preceding four years combined, the number rose only 11 percent. But the city has not been able to hire enough caseworkers to keep up with the deluge of people seeking help, officials say.
The city's first priority has been to make sure those who apply for help get it within 30 days as required, said Sheila Jack, a spokeswoman for the Human Resources Administration. But as the city reassigned workers to handle the surge in applications, it fell behind in checking the eligibility of the people already on the rolls.
Bob Myers, the union representative of the welfare workers, said that workers are supposed to carry a load of 160 cases under their contract with the city but that caseloads have risen to 220 or 230. "People are burned out and wiped out," he said. "It doesn't make sense for the city to do a patchwork solution, hoping the economy will suddenly become great and people won't be on public assistance."
The city and the union, Local 1549 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, are now in arbitration. The union says the city needs to hire at least 800 more workers to bring the caseloads down to the size specified in the contract. It currently has about 4,900 workers, Mr. Myers said.
Ms. Jack said she could not comment on staff levels with the arbitration continuing. But city budget officials said the city had hired about 350 workers so far and planned to hire an additional 188 by the end of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W BOB MYERS (65%); SHEILA JACK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



662 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: As China Looks at World Order, It Detects New Struggles Emerging

SERIES: After the Cold War -- Third article of a series: Chinese Views

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 20

 BODY:
As the band strikes up for a new international order in the 1990's, one major power broods on the side of the ballroom, equally alarmed at the Western tune and at the prospect of being left out of the dance.
As China broods, it pumps more money into the military -- a 50 percent increase since 1989 -- and sells what it describes as civilian nuclear technology to Algeria and Iran. The message seems to be that while China has lost strategic importance with the collapse of the Soviet Union, Beijing still has a dizzying capacity to disrupt the post-cold-war party. 
 Much the same is true of the other remaining Communist country in northern Asia, North Korea. Economically near collapse, its President 80 years old, North Korea also has plenty of ways to disrupt the world, including what Western officials call its emphasis on developing nuclear weapons.
Any Western-oriented plan for a new international order could face major challenges from this Communist rear guard because China has nuclear warheads, three million troops and significant territorial disputes with its neighbors and because North Korea may be able to make nuclear arms in a few months or years. Both countries may collide regularly with international efforts to promote human rights, to curtail the spread of missiles and nuclear technology, and simply to preserve the peace.
 
Fears About the West
 "One cold war has ended -- two more cold wars have begun," warns a Chinese central Government document whose nervous tone underscores Beijing's insecurities in the post-cold-war era. The two new cold wars appear to be first, the struggle between capitalism and the remaining Communist countries, and second, growing frictions within the Western alliance.
The analysis was intended for internal use only, to guide the coverage of foreign events in the Chinese press, and consequently it offers a window into the leadership's private concerns about China's role in the new world order. The document warns that Western forces are infiltrating neighboring Mongolia and Indochina, that the United States is using human rights "as an excuse to pressure our country," and that the collapse of Communism abroad has added to China's burden.
"After the end of the cold war between the United States and the Soviet Union, the confrontation and struggle between the two systems and two ideologies is still fierce," the document adds. "The collapse of the Soviet Union is a severe blow to international socialism, and it puts those countries that are sticking with socialism and other third-world countries on the front line against the threat of imperialism."
 
The Soviet Collapse
Possible Bellwether For the Chinese
 The suicide of the Soviet Union (as officials here see it) has encouraged many Chinese dissidents, who echo Mao's dictum in the 1950's that "the Soviet Union's today is China's tomorrow." The Soviet disintegration has also cost China some strategic leverage with both Washington and Moscow, for the China card was most valuable in an era of superpower rivalry. Washington today seems to find little use for the China card in a game of solitaire.
Yet, the end of Soviet might was in some ways also a relief for China, which had experienced not only a cold war with Moscow but also a border battle in 1969.
"The recent events in Moscow can benefit us," insisted an elderly Chinese who occupies a senior post in the foreign affairs hierarchy. "The Soviet Union was a menace to us, a threat, and now it's gone."
Moreover, the economic troubles in the Soviet Union have had a cautionary effect on many ordinary Chinese, reminding them that overthrowing the established order may lead not to prosperity and efficiency but rather to shortages and upheavals. And in a country that in the last 100 years has faced repeated convulsions, no word provokes more shivers than luan -- chaos.
"What happens in the Soviet Union will be of crucial importance in China," another senior Government offical recently said. "If chaos continues and prices rise, then that will help the Chinese Government because the last thing people here want is chaos. But if there is a quick turnaround in Russia, and production increases and living standards rise, then people here will say they want to make the leap as well."
 
The Military
Spending Increases As Tensions Ease
 One of the puzzles of China in the 1990's is why it is pouring money into the military even though its most important military threat collapsed with the Soviet Army. The risk of military conflict with other neighbors, particularly India and Vietnam, has also diminished sharply in recent years as Beijing has normalized diplomatic relations with those countries.
Yet China is not only increasing military spending generally, but in particular it also is seeking to project power beyond its shores. It is trying to do this by acquiring air-refueling capability for its fighter aircraft, by building up a blue-water navy, and eventually by building an aircraft carrier.
All this is raising concerns in Taiwan about whether it is the target of the rising military spending. China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and reserves the right to use force to resolve what it considers to be its own "internal affair." A confrontation in the Taiwan Strait could well happen if Taiwan's opposition movement gets its way and declares independence from China.
"If Taiwan declares independence, we'll have to attack them," said a Chinese official with ties to senior generals.
 
Taiwan Crisis Not Ruled Out
 In part this may be bluff, and military experts say a conventional assault by the People's Liberation Army on Taiwan would be difficult and not necessarily successful. But while most scholars and diplomats seem to believe that a military crisis in the Taiwan Strait is unlikely in the 1990's, few rule it out.
Huan Guocang, a scholar at Columbia University who grew up in China, cited two additional security risks in the post-cold-war era.
The first is in Xinjiang, the semi-desert region of northwest China. Xinjiang is inhabited by Muslims of Turkic origin who are ethnically related to the people of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan across the old Soviet border. Two years ago the Chinese authorities in Xinjiang confronted an armed rebellion, and there are reports of continuing discontent in the bazaars.
"They're getting guns smuggled in over the mountains from Pakistan and Afghanistan, and that's very worrying," said a Chinese official well informed on security issues.
 
The South China Sea
 The second security risk cited by Mr. Huan is the territorial dispute in the South China Sea. China claims a huge region of islands and ocean, extending more than 1,000 miles south of Hong Kong and embracing virtually everything between Vietnam, Malaysia and the Philippines.
The zone includes the Spratly Islands, beautiful, palm-lined islets that are essentially uninhabited, set in an area thought to contain oil, natural gas and phosphorus deposits.
Some or all of the islands are claimed by nations in the region, and clashes could quickly follow a major oil find. In 1988, China and Vietnam fought a minor battle over the islands.
China alarmed Southeast Asia this year when it approved a new law asserting its sovereignty over the South China Sea.
 
Strategy
Exploiting Discord And Gaining Power
 The internal Government document supports the view that China is increasing its readiness not because it wants to take on its neighbors, but because it feels threatened itself.
"Facing this international turbulence, our policy is to coolly survey the situation, bide our time, increase our guard, and absolutely not stick our head up," the document declares. "We're going to exploit the divisions among Western countries, strengthen ourselves, and focus our efforts on the Asia-Pacific region and the nations along our border."
Chinese officials note that the military budget, while rising, is tiny by international standards: just $6.8 billion this year. But true military spending is far higher than that official figure, which does not include funds raised by arms sales or the income from hundreds of army-owned factories.
With a bit of sleight of hand, the generals also exclude capital expenditures, which fall under a separate budget category.
Perhaps the structural problem facing China today is that it was so weak beginning in the early 1800's that it could not defend its interests, and as a consequence it lost significant chunks of territory. Now for the first time, it is gaining economic and military clout, largely because it enjoys one of the most buoyant economies in the world. With that strength, it seems increasingly interested in resolving long-time disputes in its own favor.
So while China has no interest in conquering India, for example, it might some day feel that it needs to "retake" a large swath of Indian land in the Himalayas that it says is historically China's. That was how the Chinese-Indian border war of 1962 broke out.
While it is not Government policy, some Chinese would also like to recover the independent country of Mongolia, which China was forced to give up earlier in this century, as well as strips of territory taken by Russia in the last century.
 
On Japan
Lingering Hatred Clouds Relations
 The nationalist pressures are greatest in shaping policy toward Japan. Chinese grow up hearing and reading about the brutal Japanese occupation of China beginning in the 1930's. About 10 million Chinese may have died because of the Japanese occupation, which lasted until the defeat of Japan by allied forces in 1945.
"There's considerable hatred for Japan, and we have to be careful not to inflame it," the elderly senior official said.
Whenever the Chinese leaders improve relations with Tokyo, they risk being criticized as unpatriotic by Chinese students. In 1985, thousands of Chinese students demonstrated against the profusion of Japanese imports, and in 1990 there were calls for demonstrations against the Beijing leadership because it was accused of failing to defend the Diaoyu Islands, also claimed by Japan, which remain a potential flashpoint between the two countries.
 
Wartime Reparations
 The clearest sign that the Chinese Government feels pressured to take a stronger position against Japan came just in the last few months. A small group of Chinese scholars and officials, acting without Government approval, began to issue calls for Japan to pay China compensation for damage and injuries in the 1930's and 40's.
China's leaders and Japan's agreed in 1972 to resolve all claims, and Chinese officals had previously acknowledged this. But now the leadership seems afraid of squelching the reparations movement. When Jiang Zemin, the Communist Party leader, was asked this month about reparations, he responded with virtually an outstretched hand.
"As for the left-over issues concerning the war of aggression," he said, "we have always maintained that all of the issues should be settled fairly and reasonably through mutual consultations in the light of the principles of seeking truth from facts and adopting a serious attitude."
 
Diplomacy
Shedding Status As Pariah in West
 For all of China's diplomatic difficulties in the 1990's, most diplomats and scholars say the Government has made great strides in improving its position lately.
Just a couple of years ago, for example, China seemed to face an intractable challenge in its handling of foreign relations: Li Peng's hands. No Western leader wanted to shake them.
Prime Minister Li had been a central figure in the 1989 crackdown, in which the army crushed the Tiananmen democracy movement and shot to death hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators. While the third world paid little attention, the West was outraged and some diplomats suggested then that if China wanted to resume high-level exchanges with the industrialized world, it would be obliged to ease Mr. Li from power.
But the Government proved more patient than its critics, and these days Mr. Li is no longer grounded.
His triumphal 11-day visit in January and February to Italy, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal and the United Nations in New York, where he met with President Bush, suggests that China has largely reintegrated itself into the international community.
 
On the United States
Conflicting Views About Washington
 The only major trading partner of China that is not improving relations significantly with Beijing is the United States. Indeed, there could be a significant further deterioration in ties with Beijing if a Democratic president is elected this fall and refuses to extend China's access to low trade tariffs known as most-favored-nation status.
China's leaders apparently are as vexed by the United States as the other way around. Most Chinese express deep admiration for America, but the leadership seems to feel that it has been betrayed by American support for anti-Communist dissidents in China. The central document conveys that ambivalence about America, as it passes on instructions on presenting news from America to Chinese audiences.
"We want to ease tensions with the United States and break down the sentiment in America for sanctions," the document states. "We should take prudent and active measures, and properly report issues in Sino-American relations, so that bilateral relations develop in a way that will help us. Propaganda news stories must be careful and tactical, paying attention to results. As for American interference in our internal affairs, violations of our sovereignty, and slanderous rumor-mongering, we can reveal this in ways that accord with the circumstances and with our diplomatic aims.
"We should study and write about the problems that the United States is having now, since being victorious in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union," the document adds. "We should point out that since becoming the sole superpower, the United States has been grasping wildly for new hegemonism and power politics, and also that it's strength is in relative decline and that there are limits to what it can do. The American domestic problems are severe, and can be the topic of exposes, but we must be accurate."
 
Forgoing Ideology
 Paradoxically, China now says it is abandoning ideology in foreign policy, just as Americans are becoming more idealistic -- or, from Beijing's point of view, ideological -- about relations with China, particularly in American criticism of China on human rights.
"In your country, some people are very ideological, especially your congressmen," a senior Foreign Ministry official said in an interview. "But what determines relations between states is not ideology but common interests."
Reflecting that new position, China recognized Israel in January -- after assuring the Palestine Liberation Organization representative in Beijing that this would never happen. Beijing also seems to be moving toward recognizing South Africa.
In an effort to appear accommodating and non-ideological, China says it is willing to discuss human rights issues in general -- although not its own human rights problems in particular. And last year, under pressure from the West, China said it would abide by the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and, with conditions, the Missile Technology Control Regime. Most diplomats do not entirely trust China to curtail arms sales and nuclear proliferation, but they believe the moves are still significant.
"You have to give it some credit," said a Western diplomat in Beijing. "On human rights and arms control, it was backed into the corner and it finally acted rationally. It seems to be coming slowly in our direction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While Communist systems collapse all around it, China continues to pump more money into its military. The ability of Beijing to disrupt any Western plan for international order is still a part of the post-cold-war era. Military units trained in the Gobi desert in Xinjiang Province. (Sipa Press) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONGOLIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); GOBI DESERT (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONGOLIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); GOBI DESERT (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



663 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins's New Budget Approach: Looking Toward Re-election

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
After two years of budget proposals that tried to be fiscally correct even if they were politically unpalatable, Mayor David N. Dinkins is now trying hard to find enough good news to shape a budget that will make him more popular as his re-election campaign approaches.
In the last week, the Mayor has moved to restore library service five days a week at all branches, to rescind planned cuts in spending for capital construction, to propose new tax credits for businesses that donate to cultural institutions and even to spend more money to fix a smelly sewage plant in Harlem. 
 Just yesterday, he announced plans to create a new network of public clinics intended to provide basic health care for poor New Yorkers. Today he is to announce that a new police academy, planned for the South Bronx but put on hold last year, is now back on the drawing boards.
How he can do all that and whether it makes sense for the budget is hard to say, because word of the goodies has been doled out in dribs and drabs. The full range of the Mayor's choices will not be clear until he presents his proposed $29.4 billion budget next week, and it will still have plenty of bad news. But the city hopes that savings from two years of slow, grinding cuts might actually produce a healthy surplus in the fiscal year that ends June 30, money that can help pay for some of the projects.
 
Light Some Candles
 Regardless, most of the Mayor's ideas will not cost much, most will be put into effect over several years in the hope that the economy and tax revenues will rebound enough to support them and some, like the clinics, might end up saving money in the long run by improved efficiency.
The financing will come from sources as different as water and sewer bonds, which are backed by special water fees and not affected by cuts in the operating budget, and rejiggered state and Federal aid.
But the real answer is that, politically, the Mayor simply cannot afford not to try. "We're not going to curse the darkness," Mr. Dinkins said yesterday, announcing the new health centers. "We're going to light some blasted candles."
For months, it seemed City Hall and its critics did little but curse, but now the Mayor is looking ahead. He pledged to break ground on all 20 new centers by September 1993, and when a reporter noted that there would be another important event that month, Mr. Dinkins smiled slightly and asked, "Oh, what's that?"
"That" is the Democratic mayoral primary, something that is bound to drive many of the Mayor's decisions these days, as he strives to cut the losses of two years and rally his political coalition before it is too late. Yet actions now prompted by political exigencies also highlight failures of his administration's past budgeting.
The restored library hours are a case in point, reflecting the Mayor's sensitivity to a service popular in rich and poor neighborhoods alike.
Mr. Dinkins cut library service last year, as part of a scorched-earth budget strategy that threatened to close the Central Park Zoo and darken streetlights to prompt an air of crisis that would win concessions from municipal labor unions. But that effort foundered, and the City Council had no sooner adopted the budget than the Mayor moved to restore some of the most unpalatable cuts.
 
Money in Nooks and Crannies
 Now, by promising to find money in nooks and crannies to restore some of the library cuts, he is all but acknowledging that he may never have had to make them in the first place.
Yesterday, Mr. Dinkins refused to compare last year's approach and this year's, saying circumstances were different. But he did say, "The more you do it, the better you get."
Or as his chief political aide, Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, put it: "You can do some things with meager resources, if you look and plan carefully, and it's taken us a while to get an understanding of how to do that, and we're now doing it."
Paradoxically, it could be argued that the Mayor actually has somewhat less flexibility this year than last. Now, he has pledged a four-year freeze in property tax rates, while last year he won $700 million in higher taxes. And there is little prospect now of money-saving concessions from the city's unions.
On the other hand, the Mayor has reaped savings from a reduction of about 13,000 in the city's work force since November 1990 and plans more cuts, mostly through attrition. He has also pledged to freeze wages, except in exchange for improved productivity.
"I think our productivity programs and our belt-tightening has worked," said Budget Director Philip R. Michael. "You no longer have the experience of the bottom falling out as far as taxes are concerned. So while we don't like the size of our revenues, they are not slipping. That has given the Mayor some flexibility to do program restorations."
By law the city's budget must be balanced, and mayoral aides insist it will be. They numbers-crunchers talk of controls and safeguards, but also, frankly, of hope.
"We do have a level of confidence," Mr. Michael said. "We can't say where the economy is going for sure, but we do feel we have our systems in place and they're working, so we can take a little step back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; POLICE; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH BUDGETS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LIBRARIANS (76%); LIBRARIES (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



664 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Private Owner to Sell L.I. and Queens Water Utility

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., April 20

 BODY:
Facing a groundswell of customer protests over rates, the corporate parent of the largest water company in Queens and Nassau County said today that it would sell the utility and withdraw from the water business.
The company, JWP Inc., based in Purchase, N.Y., said the sale was part of a corporate restructuring because of reduced earnings. It said it would seek buyers for the Jamaica Water Supply Company, which serves 118,000 homes in Queens and western Nassau, and also for the Sea Cliff Water Company, a small utility with 4,200 customers in northern Nassau. 
 JWP, a diversified concern with holdings in electronics, mechanical equipment and computers, said the sale was intended to let the company focus on its "core businesses," and not to avert controversy over its water service. The two utilities account for only 2 percent of its revenues, the company said.
But its announcement was welcomed as a victory in Nassau, where hundreds of people have organized to protest the Jamaica Water Company's rates, which for years have been two to three times higher than those charged by neighboring municipal water companies.
 
Public or Private?
 "They saw writing on the wall," said William Corbett, a spokesman for the Waterbill Watchdogs, a group formed in September in the Nassau village of Floral Park to protest the utility's prices and to advocate a public takeover of the company.
Whether JPW's decision to sell will lead to public acquisition of the utilities remained an open question. But officials in Nassau said the company's announcement was welcome, even if the water companies are acquired by another private concern.
"It has to be regarded as good news," said John J. Ciotti, a lawyer in Mineola and chairman of the Western Nassau Water Authority, a panel formed by the towns of Hempstead and North Hempstead to study the viability of taking over Jamaica Water by eminent domain, or of acquiring it through a negotiated sale.
"If the buyer is another private company whose business is providing water, and not a conglomerate, it is bound to be more responsive to the public," he said. But he added that his panel would "certainly consider" approaching JWP with a bid of its own for Jamaica Water.
 
Higher Rates
 New York City has been trying to acquire Jamaica Water's operations in Queens through eminent domain for three years. A State Supreme Court judge in Queens, Edwin Kassoff, is to determine the fair market value of the company later this year, enabling the takeover to proceed.
"I don't think JWP's announcement changes anything," said Leo Connelly, assistant counsel for the city's Department of Environmental Protection.
Jamaica Water, which has been providing water service since 1887, is New York State's second-largest water utility, behind the New York City Municipal Water System, and by far its largest private water provider.
Several studies have shown that its rates, which are subject to approval by the state's Public Service Commission, are far higher than those of municipal utilities, with many families in Nassau paying Jamaica Water $900 a year or more for service.
JWP has defended its water rates on the grounds that it must pay taxes on land and equipment, costs which are passed along to customers. Municipal utilities are tax-exempt, and therefore can charge less.
Some officials said it was not clear whether a public takeover would make economic sense, because tax revenues would be lost. "Everybody wants lower water rates, but if we have to eliminate too much in tax revenues to get them we are not doing anyone a favor," Mr. Ciotti said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Water in Nassau: Same Stuff, Very Different Price"
 Total amount paid by a typical homeowner to selected public and private suppliers in 1991, according to Waterbill Watchdogs, a consumer advocacy group.
 
Private Water Companies
 
Western Nassau
 Jamaica Water Supply Co.: $899
 Sea Cliff Water Co.: $769
 
Central Nassau
 New York Water Service: $695
 
Southern Nassau
 Long Island Water Corp.: $593
 
Municipal Water Districts
 
 Franklin Square: $324
 Albertson: $320
 Carle Place: $255
 
(Figures based on 200,000 gallons of water, a typical year's consumption by a family with two children)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EME (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (84%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (84%); NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (72%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (72%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (72%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: JWP INC; JAMAICA WATER COMPANY; SEA CLIFF WATER COMPANY JAMAICA WATER SUPPLY CO (84%); EMCOR GROUP INC (72%); SEA CLIFF WATER CO (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: JWP INC; JAMAICA WATER COMPANY; SEA CLIFF WATER COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; RATES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES UTILITIES INDUSTRY (93%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (92%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (64%); JUDGES (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



665 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
Bush and Clinton Face A Long, Familiar Road

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The two parties are sliding into a general election campaign with all the reassuring rituals of modern Presidential politics.
President Bush is back out on the hustings, talking about his commitment to change and a reinvigorated domestic agenda, just as he did in 1988. (A tacit admission that this message, somehow, did not get conveyed during four years of running the Government.) Gov. Bill Clinton is trying to make the transition from little-known Democratic Governor to potential President, just as Michael S. Dukakis tried in the spring of 1988. Other Democrats are busily engaged in another party tradition: carping about their probable nominee. 
 The conventional wisdom of the press and pundit class has formed and re-formed a half-dozen times already, and is currently in something of a fugue state. Mr. Clinton has gone from inevitable to impossible to inevitable but doomed, and may now be entering a kind of exhausted limbo in the minds of the pundits. Mr. Bush went from the Unstoppable Hero of the Persian Gulf to the Hapless Tribune of a Recessionary Status Quo in a matter of months, then suddenly looked formidable again in comparison to Mr. Clinton.
The real buzz inside the Beltway these days is over Ross Perot; nothing thrills the Washington insiders like dire warnings of the anger Out There, like British aristocrats regaled with chilling tales from the far-flung outposts of the empire.
For all that, the shape of a Bush-Clinton race is emerging. Mr. Bush is blithely campaigning as a President devoted to domestic policy, talking about issues like education that are critical to the all-important suburban swing voter. Americans can expect a constant drumbeat of Presidential concern between now and the Republican convention in August, at which point Bush strategists hope to have a fully retrofitted candidate for the fall campaign.
There will be a burst of foreign-policy events in June and July, including the visit of President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and an economic summit in Munich, Germany, that will undoubtedly be used to remind voters that Mr. Bush, commander in chief, is running against Mr. Clinton, Governor of the smallish state of Arkansas. But by and large, Mr. Bush will be focused on the bread-and-butter worries of the home front, which is, after all, where the votes are. (One domestic issue he would probably prefer not to highlight is abortion, where his opposition could alienate many of the swing voters he needs.
Democrats are already trying to challenge Mr. Bush's commitment to a serious domestic agenda. In 1988, when the polls also showed many Americans yearning for a more aggressive effort to solve problems here at home, Mr. Bush systematically undermined the Democrats by promising to be the Education President, the Environment President, and so on. The Democrats assert he paid lip service only and vow they will not let him get away with it again.
"They're going to try to run 1988 all over again," said James Carville, Mr. Clinton's strategist. "They're going to be relentless in their attacks on us and try to co-opt issues like education and the environment with some very modest, squishy proposals."
Mr. Bush's critics will almost certainly ask where he was hiding these domestic policy passions for the past four years. This is where Congress comes in. Charles Black, a senior advisor to the Bush campaign, says the President can document how Democrats on Capitol Hill blocked his plans for domestic reform.
The Clinton campaign is reveling in a debate about issues larger than whether the Governor did or did not inhale. Context is everything in politics, and Mr. Clinton's context is no longer a brutish, tabloid-driven primary fight in the streets of New York. He still has to deal with former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, notably this week in Pennsylvania, which holds its primary next Tuesday. Mr. Brown was in the streets of Philadelphia today, railing about corrupt politicians and very much alive. Still, many of the headlines in recent days featured a give and take between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush on issues like education and job training, and this cheered many Democrats.
Mr. Clinton's allies hope that this "Presidential" dialogue begins to repair their candidate's image, which came out of the primaries in very grim shape, with polls showing widespread doubts about his honesty and integrity.
In the midst of all this, Mr. Clinton was probably not helped by the willingness of many in his party, on Capitol Hill and elsewhere, to ventilate their own reservations, underscoring the sense that the Democrats have become something of a dysfunctional family in recent years. One Democratic strategist moaned in an interview about the fretting on Capitol Hill with a rhetorical plea: "Would you people go home and take a Valium?"
The superdelegate endorsements keep trickling in. Some of Mr. Clinton's allies say this was not a great year, anyway, for mass endorsements by politicians. What counts, they say, is that Mr. Clinton is still lurching forward, toward the nomination and the fall campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



666 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Ads Warn G.O.P. on Cutting Homestead Rebate Program

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 20

 BODY:
New Jersey Democrats today announced a $150,000 broadcast and direct-mail campaign to warn Republicans away from cutting the homestead rebate program, which returns as much as $500 to homeowners and renters.
A script of a radio commercial to be broadcast on stations serving the New Jersey market beginning Tuesday features ominous music and the warning, "They're after your money, and they know where you live." 
 There is then the sound of a window breaking and a burglar alarm going off, with the words, "There's a gang out there plotting to take up to $500 out of your pocket. The Trenton Republicans. They run the New Jersey Legislature, and they're plotting to cut your homestead rebate."
The ads sharpen the battle lines in the Legislature's fight over the rebate program, which cost $710 million in the current fiscal year and is pegged at $685 million in the next budget. The Democrats are picturing themselves as the champions of ordinary people trying to make ends meet, particularly elderly people, while the Republicans portray themselves as defenders of a fiscal responsibility in the form of a balanced state budget.
The Republican majority in the Legislature needs to find $608 million in spending cuts to make up for a one-cent reduction in the sales tax it approved last month to fulfill a campaign promise.
Before the election the Republicans hinted broadly that they would cut even more. One Republican leader, Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, suggested that all of the $2.8 billion in tax increases enacted by the Democrats in 1990 be rolled back. But the Republicans settled for about a quarter of the total rollback when it became apparent that bigger cuts would be impossible without drastic reductions in state jobs and services.
But even the relatively modest rollback amid a recession has put the Republicans on the spot to come up with ways to trim $608 million from the $15.7 billion budget proposed for the fiscal year that starts in June.
The homestead rebates appear to be a prime target. Mr. Haytaian, who became the Speaker of the Assembly after the Republicans won control in November, has said that "everything is on the table, including the rebates," and Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, the Republicans' leading fiscal expert and chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee, called the rebate program "a vote-buying scheme" that has "gotten out of control."
At a news conference today about the ad campaign, the state Democratic chairman, Raymond J. Lesniak, said that any plan to cut the rebate program to make up for a tax cut "is a flimflam, it's a bait-and-switch, it's a shell game."
A brochure that Mr. Lesniak said would be mailed to 500,000 voters in swing districts now represented by Republicans also hints of legislative banditry, featuring a photograph of three masked men in business suits standing in front of the gold dome of the State Capitol.
As Mr. Lesniak announced the effort to get citizens to write or call their legislators, he was joined by representatives of the New Jersey chapter of the American Association of Retired Persons, the New Jersey United Senior Alliance and the New Jersey Council of Senior Citizens.
Councilman Hank Miller of Monroe Township, which has a high percentage of elderly people, warned, "If they ever want to see gray power at work, the Republicans should try to take away the Homestead Rebate."
In an interview, Assemblyman Bob Franks of New Providence, the State Republican chairman who created the successful campaign to take over the Legislature by capitalizing on voter anger over the 1990 Democratic tax increase, called the Democratic media campaign "simply pandering at its best, which we have learned to rely on the Democrats in New Jersey to specialize in."
Although he did not say that the Republicans plan to cut the rebate program, he said, "We have a significant fiscal problem in New Jersey today and someone has to provide leadership in order to put our fiscal house back in order."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; PROPERTY TAXES; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SALES TAX; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES TAX (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (72%); APPROVALS (67%); ELECTION FRAUD (64%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



667 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Profits Up at Nationsbank, Chase and Dime

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Nationsbank, now the country's fourth-largest banking company, said yesterday that its first-quarter profits increased 95 percent, while earnings at Chase Manhattan rose 20.5 percent. At the Dime Savings Bank, profits were five times as high as their very depressed level a year ago.
Like most other banking companies, Nationsbank, Chase and Dime said their first-quarter results benefited from a wider spread between the interest rates they paid for deposits and the rates they collected on loans and increased collections of fees from consumers. All three were badly hurt by losses on real estate loans the last few years, but Nationsbank seems to be recovering more quickly than Chase or the Dime. 
 While the scope of Nationsbank's operations are not as grandiose as its name, the company has outgrown its home in North Carolina to become one of the nation's biggest banking companies. The result of the merger last year of the NCNB Corporation, of Charlotte, and the C & S/Sovran Corporation of Atlanta, it is now the leading bank in Texas, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Virginia, a part of the country where the economy has not been as weak as the Northeast.
Chase, the nation's largest bank a few decades ago and now the sixth biggest, is building its consumer business and expanding into Connecticut, but it remains only about half as profitable as many regional banking companies, after adjusting for size.
The return to profitability at the Dime Savings, which lost $237.4 million last year, comes at a time when regulators are pushing the bank to develop a plan to raise more capital and strengthen its financial condition.
Following are the results of the three banking companies:
 
Nationsbank
 Nationsbank's profit of $310 million, or $1.28 a share, was up from $159 million, or 70 cents a share, a year ago. In addition to a $204 million profit from securities it holds as an investment, Nationsbank benefited from its first quarterly decline in non-performing assets in two years. Non-performing assets are badly delinquent or troubled loans not expected to be repaid in full, and real estate acquired through foreclosure.
As problems with bad loans abated, Nationsbank wrote off as a loss $214 million in loans, down from $220 million a year ago, and it added $265 million to its reserve for loan losses, down from $333 million a year ago.
Although loans at Nationsbank fell slightly in the first quarter, Rusty Page, a company spokesman, said customer inquiries and demand for loans have increased slightly the last few months. As loans increase, the company hopes its profits will gain as it can finance new loans with money previously invested in government securities. On consumer loans, which Nationsbank wants to increase to 50 percent of its total from 39 percent now, interest rates of 11 percent would be far higher than the 6 percent earned on securities.
"They are one of the few major banks to use their investment portfolio just like the textbook says," Thomas Hanley a banking analyst at First Boston Corporation, said. "When the economy and loan demand was weak, they accumulated investments, and as interest rates fell they took their profits and adjusted to shorter maturities to minimize losses when rates head back up."
 
Chase Manhattan
 At Chase, first-quarter profits of $141 million equaled 81 cents a share, up from $117 million, or 73 cents a share, a year ago. Chase wrote off as a loss $294 million of loans, up from $270 million a year ago but down from $319 million in the fourth quarter. To prepare for losses on other loans it has identified as weak, Chase added $300 million to its loan-loss reserve.
Although losses at Chase from bad loans remain high, Mr. Hanley of First Boston said the first-quarter numbers on bad loans showed that Chase's problems have stabilized and should decline later this year. Chase said it had $3.38 billion of loans that were badly delinquent or in such trouble that full repayment was not expected, little changed from $3.37 billion at the end of 1991 but up from $3.10 a year ago. Chase also held $923 million of real estate acquired through foreclosure, up from $907 million at the end of the year and $767 million a year ago.
Chase benefited in the first quarter from growth of its consumer businesses and $50 million in profits from the sale of investments in other companies and warrants it held in an unidentified subsidiary sold several years ago.
 
Dime
 At the Dime Savings Bank, the first-quarter profit of $8.1 million was equal to 35 cents a share and was up from $1.6 million, or 7 cents a share, a year ago. Dime's nonperforming assets have fallen two consecutive quarters to $1.10 billion, but the company remains troubled by a low level of capital and small reserve for losses that is equal to only about 32 percent of its troubled loans.
Dime's problems have been concentrated on residential mortgage loans, particularly those made in the Northeastern part of the country without a full-scale credit check of the borrower, rather than on the commercial real estate loans that have plagued large banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONSBANK; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC); DIME SAVINGS BANK OF NEW YORK NCNB CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONSBANK; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC); DIME SAVINGS BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MERGERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



668 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Futures Panel Choice Is a Professor in Utah

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The White House said yesterday that President Bush would nominate Steven Manaster to be a commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Dr. Manaster, who is 43, is a professor of finance at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, but he was the commission's chief economist from June 1989 to September 1990. As chief economist, he supervised a staff of about 100, engaged in analysis, research and market surveillance. 
 He specializes in the analysis of the terms and conditions under which futures contracts are settled by the delivery of a commodity. A futures contract is an agreement to deliver a set amount of a commodity in the future at a fixed price. Such contracts can also be written for stocks and stock indexes.
Implied price volatility, Dr. Manaster explained in a telephone interview yesterday from his home in Salt Lake, means examining the price movement of an option and inferring from that the price of the commodity. The technique is often used in stock options, he said, and "it is applicable to commodities or futures, with varying degrees of success."
When futures contracts expire and are settled with the delivery of a commodity, as opposed to a cash exchange, supply bottlenecks can affect prices, he said, and his interest was "how these 'pinch points' might affect futures contract prices."
Dr. Manaster, whose nomination is subject to Senate confirmation, would replace Fowler C. West, whose second term expired on April 15. The panel has five members, who serve staggered terms of five years each.
A 1970 graduate of Oberlin College, Dr. Manaster holds M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Chicago. He has worked as a staff economist for the Federal Reserve Board, and he has taught at New York University, the University of Chicago and the University of Florida. He is also the former chairman of the University of Utah's finance department.
The futures commission faces numerous issues brought on by financial and technological change. Among these are a proliferation of foreign financial instruments being offered in the United States; 24-hour computerized trading, and dual trading, in which a floor broker trades on his account as well as his customers'.
The commission has also been involved in a lengthy dispute with the Securities and Exchange Commission over which should have jurisdiction over stock-index futures contracts, an argument that the futures panel now says it has won.
But the futures commission has been operating under a continuing resolution for two and a half years, because Congress has not passed legislation reauthorizing it, partly because of the jurisdictional dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES FUTURES (96%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MANASTER, STEVEN (PROF) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



669 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Chain Takes Fashion Tongue-in-Chic

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
If exposed pipes, white walls and wooden crates are the height of store design and blue jeans and T-shirts the garb of national choice, then Express is a throwback to another age -- in fact, to another century.
Express stores, a division of Limited Inc., are a bit of Versailles tucked into 7,500 square feet of the local mall, and the young women's chic career and casual clothing they sell evokes Madison Avenue rather than Main Street. 
 But while its merchandising and marketing seem out of step, so is its success. Last year Express, with more than 600 stores, was at the top of the retail industry in profits, sales growth and productivity.
Last year, in the depths of the recession, Express's sales hit the billion-dollar benchmark for the first time. So, like any proud parent, the normally reticent Limited is suddenly willing to engage in a bit of uncharacteristic preening.
The Limited boasts that by most measures, Express as a stand-alone business would best even Gap stores, that darling of Wall Street and the media. Express's own executives are somewhat more modest.
"It's not that we get everything right, that we don't make mistakes," said Michael A. Weiss, Express's president and the impresario behind its growth since 1980. "It's that we're good at seeing what's working and then making it work for us."
Banana Republic, a division of Gap Inc., won the blue ribbon last year for the most sales in each square foot of space -- $576 compared with Express's $316, according to Goldman, Sachs & Company.
But Express is a champion at generating operating profits and growth, and in doing so has become a sort of yardstick against which to measure the performance of Gap stores.
"As the Gap continues to expand the fashion component of its women's business, they're going to become increasingly competitive," said Richard N. Baum, a retail analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
He estimates that Express's sales will grow 18 percent a year, more than twice the industry average, through 1995, and he predicts similar increases in operating profits.
Express is a tough challenger, as its sister store, the Limited, has discovered. While Limited stores have struggled to reposition themselves, like the rival Ann Taylor chain, as a source of affordable, well-made career clothing, analysts say Express has lured away many of its big sister's customers.
 
A Competitor Looks In
 Even Ann Taylor considers Express to be a bigger competitor than the Limited. In a recent interview at the Express store in the Menlo Park Mall in Edison, N.J., Mr. Weiss stopped abruptly at the big glass window looking out on the mall and playfully wagged his finger at a group gathered outside.
"Have you no shame?" he yelled at Sally Frame Kasaks, who used to head the Limited's Abercrombie & Fitch division and who recently became chairman and chief executive of Ann Taylor. "Is nothing sacred?"
Mrs. Kasaks and her executives were comparison-shopping for new ideas.
An actual customer, Tammy Winthrop, poked through a rack of floral print silk walking shorts and matching tops. "Shopping here is really like shopping," she said. "You can look for fashion instead of just buying jeans and a T-shirt."
Ms. Winthrop, a 25-year-old assistant at an investment bank, said she also shopped at Gap, but "that's for weekends and the beach," she said. "This stuff is good enough for the office."
Joseph H. Ellis, a partner at Goldman, Sachs who follows the retail business, said: "Express has marched right by the Limited division in serving customers 25 and older." While sales in Limited stores open at least one year declined between 4 percent and 7 percent last year, Mr. Ellis said, sales in Express stores open one year rose between 11 percent and 14 percent in 1991.
Many of those creative urges are simply an ability to see what is hot and quickly get it out on the selling floor, a hallmark of the Limited's divisions, which also include Victoria's Secret and Lerner's. When a young buyer told her superiors at Express that she wanted to purchase ribbed cotton jersey tunics in a rainbow of colors last summer, they were unexcited but agreed to her wishes. But the first month the tunics went on sale, store managers reported that the tunics were flying out the doors and asked for more.
Sewing machines around the world went into action, and Express sold four million tunics last year. "No test would have ever told us those shirts would sell like that," Mr. Weiss said.
Mr. Weiss and his colleagues have made a career out of borrowing ideas and giving them a slightly different spin. But unlike Armani A/X and the other Gap lookalikes springing up around the country, Express has borrowed from the reign of Louis XIV and Paris street fashion. "Basic" is the buzzword of the retail industry, but Express offers ersatz opulence.
The radio station playing French pop music over store speakers is a tape. Faux Fragonard and mock Magritte murals cover walls. Compagnie Internationale Express clothes, made especially for Express, are labeled in French, right down to the "fabrique aux Etats-Unis" -- "made in the United States." Not even the Venus de Milo is spared: free-standing, full-length mirrors scattered about the selling space are cut out in her voluptuous shape.
 
Whimsy and Low Prices
 "The stores are fun, and that's a big factor in retailing today," said Cynthia Cohen Turk, president of Marketplace 2000, a retail consulting firm. "When you're running a chain of hundreds of stores and have to maintain consistency in all of them, you can't rely on the product to be the fun and interesting element that draws people in."
Unlike Armani A/X, where "prices under $100" means most shirts and pants are $70 to $90, Express prices clothes so that a customer can easily put together an entire outfit for no more than $80.
Ms. Cohen Turk said the low prices and obviously tongue-in-cheek chic of the stores had helped them avoid the backlash against lavishness that stamped the start of the 90's.
Express began life as the Limited Express in 1980, when Leslie Wexner, founder, chairman and chief executive of the Limited, decided to try leveraging the success of his flagship chain. Attached to the Limited store in Chicago's Watertower Place, it was decked out in neon fixtures and stocked with clothes made of mostly synthetic fabrics.
It was an era when girls just wanted to have fun. Mr. Weiss, hired a year later after stints at A&S and Casual Corner, quickly moved to stamp the fledgling business venture with merchandise that was campy, trendy and way out, a far cry from the Express of today.
"If I wrote a book about launching Express," he says, "its title would be 'How to Make Midlife Crisis Work For You.'
"I was 40 years old, and I had decided that I had not done what I wanted to do, so I had better get on the stick. What better way to do that work in a store exclusively for girls who wanted funky clothes to go with their green and pink and orange hair?"
Having established itself, Limited Express became Express in 1982. And when multicolored hair began returning to more natural shades, Mr. Weiss turned off the neon and turned on more flattering lighting. In 1986 louvered wooden doors began replacing the plastic shower curtains that separated the dressing rooms, and cotton jersey started substituting for rayon. The stores dropped Limited from their name.
Express was growing up to get grown-ups. Says Mr. Weiss, "We figured out that a customer base with a salary was better than a customer base with an allowance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a time when "basic" is the buzzword of an industry dominated by Gap lookalikes, the Express division of Limited Inc. thrives by offering the opposite: ersatz opulence. Michael A. Weiss, Express's president, recently took visitors through the Express store at the Menlo Park Mall in Edison, N.J. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EXPR (NYSE) (92%); GPS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: LIMITED INC; EXPRESS (CO); ANN TAYLOR INC EXPRESS INC (92%); GAP INC (85%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIMITED INC; EXPRESS (CO); ANN TAYLOR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); NEW JERSEY, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SALES RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WOMEN (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: WEISS, MICHAEL A; STROM, STEPHANIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



670 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ford's Jaguar Bet: Payoff Isn't Close

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COVENTRY, England

 BODY:
To Ford Motor Company shareholders wondering when to expect a decent return from Ford's $2.5 billion acquisition of Jaguar, the British luxury car maker, Nicholas Scheele's words will not be comforting.
When asked when that time might come, Mr. Scheele, Jaguar's new chairman, replied: "My boss at Ford said it took us close to 40 years to get any benefit from the acquisition of Lincoln. I hope it doesn't take us 40 years to get any benefit out of Jaguar." 
 For now, stanching the red ink is Mr. Scheele's main concern. Jaguar lost a total of $431 million in 1990 and 1991, after taxes, a result of sharply lower sales, and it will almost certainly post losses again this year.
 
 
Smaller, Sporty Sedan
 So much for Ford's plan 18 months ago to have Jaguar generating positive cash flow by this year, and to be able to self-finance an ambitious program to develop fresh cars, including a smaller, sporty model that might sell for $25,000 to $45,000. Analysts estimate that the program will cost about $2.5 billion.
Ford's multibillion-dollar bet is that a sporty sedan will attract younger professional buyers who cannot or will not pay $44,500 for today's least costly Jaguars and who turn up their noses at Ford's luxurious Lincolns. Instead, they buy cars like the BMW 5-series, Toyota's Lexus, Nissan's Infiniti and Honda's Acura.
While many dealers insist that Jaguar's distinctive, curvy look continues to give them an edge, several confessed that the new models, especially the sporty sedan, could not arrive soon enough.
"I'd love to have them all here next month," said Norman Gregersen, co-owner of Palm Beach Motor Cars Ltd. in West Palm Beach, Fla. "But from the lessons in the past, I don't want them until everything is absolutely right," in terms of quality.
 The success of a new, lower-priced model will largely determine whether Ford made a correct bet when it bought Jaguar in late 1989, with money that was badly needed to rejuvenate Ford's own car lines.
Already, Ford has trimmed its Jaguar sales target by a third. The original plan called for Jaguar to produce more than 150,000 cars a year by the end of the decade, including 65,000 units of the sporty sedan. Now the total target is 100,000 cars, about half of which would be the new, lower-priced model; the rest would be new versions of Jaguar's existing models.
Even that goal is ambitious. In 1988, Jaguar's best sales year, it sold just 49,494 cars.
Do Ford executives regret the price they paid? Rather than lament it, they seem to be doing their best to forget it.
"That's past," William J. Hayden, Jaguar's former chairman, said in an interview late last month on the eve of his retirement. "As Henry Ford once said, 'History is bunk.' "
 Mr. Scheele, who is 48 years old, insists that even with annual sales of 100,000 cars, Jaguar will be able to generate a respectable return. "It really depends on what price you get for the product, which depends on how good the product is," he said. So far, Ford has managed to improve Jaguar quality markedly.
But success also depends on continuing the improvements in efficiency Jaguar has been making since Ford bought it. Productivity has improved by about 35 percent, Mr. Hayden said. He would not say how many hours of labor it now takes Jaguar to paint, weld and assemble a car, but he noted that Jaguar was unquestionably still behind even the relatively unproductive German luxury car makers. The Germans need about 70 hours, experts estimate, and the Japanese about 20.
Jaguar reduced its work force last year by 4,100 people, to 8,000, and another 650 jobs will be eliminated this year. Jaguar's break-even point has been reduced to 34,000 cars, from about 50,000.
But analysts point out that with the intensifying competition, profit margins in the luxury car segment may never go back to where they were before sales began to drop.
"There's no way that Ford will ever get its money back on its investment in Jaguar," predicted Ronald A. Glantz, automotive analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds in San Francisco.
Several analysts say Jaguar will be lucky just to hang on to its current market share in the next few years as it develops replacements for its two existing, and aging, model ranges.
 
 
Bad Timing
 Ford's misfortune is that it bought Jaguar right before the collapse of the American and British luxury car markets, its two biggest. Total Jaguar sales last year plunged 40 percent, to 25,676, from 42,754 in 1990.
Besides the recessions in Britain and the United States, sales have been hurt by an American luxury tax on cars costing more than $30,000.
Jaguar's assembly plant here is still working only three days a week because of slack sales. And the company's executives are not exactly exuding confidence about achieving their modest goal of selling 27,500 cars this year, only about 2,000 more than last year.
Mr. Hayden, the former chairman, said that there had been some recent signs that Jaguar sales in America were beginning to recover. "But really you need another two or three months to determine if it's going to come back or not," he said.
 To make matters worse for Jaguar, the economies of Germany and Japan, its next-biggest markets, are now in recession or slowing. And the depressed global luxury car market seems to be doing little to deter other car makers, like Mazda and Mitusbishi, from joining the fray.
"Nick's got a huge job on his hands," said Prof. Daniel T. Jones of the Cardiff Business School at the University of Wales. "If he can keep Jaguar going and turn it around he'll be destined for big things at Ford." Professor Jones was a member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology team that produced a seminal study of the world car industry in 1990.
 
List of Changes
 First on the product development list is a replacement for the XJ6 sedan. Next is a new version of the XJ-S grand touring coupe and convertible. British trade publications say they will be introduced in 1994 and 1996, respectively, and the sporty sedan in 1998. Generally confirming these dates, Mr. Scheele said Jaguar had been able to accelerate its development program by about a year.
The replacement for the XJ6 sedan, Jaguar's main model, will not be a totally new car. While it will have restyled body, Mr. Scheele confirmed reports that it will use many structural components of the existing model, as well as its glass, roof and suspension.
Is this a compromise? Jaguar executives say they are only trying to marshal their resources to get all three models out as soon as possible.
 
 
Ford's Shocking Discoveries
 While Ford executives had realized that Jaguar was in a sorry state when they decided to buy the company, they were shocked to discover just how bad product development and manufacturing were. With Ford's help, however, Jaguar has undeniably made great progress in these areas and in lowering component costs.
One reason Jaguar thinks it can accelerate its new car introductions is that Ford is designing the process and making the tools for stamping body panels.
The leadership installed by Ford also won a new union contract that removed archaic work practices like rigid job classifications and a piece-rate system that allowed workers to quit early after producing their quota.
As for quality, long a Jaguar bugaboo, the number of defects per 100 cars coming off the assembly line has plunged to fewer than 500, from 2,500 in early 1990.
 Mr. Scheele said customers were already noticing the higher quality -- an assertion backed up by dealers in the United States and by consumer research conducted by Auto Pacific Group Inc., a California-based consulting firm.
"Jaguar's quality now is right up there with Infiniti," said Hugh Weidinger, vice president of the Hempstead Auto Company, a big Jaguar and Infiniti dealership in Hempstead, L.I. "But it's probably the best-kept secret in the world."
He and other dealers hope that an imminent marketing campaign will change that. Jaguar has announced that its American advertising account is being reviewed for a possible switch of agencies that might lead to new ads. It is also about to extend the warranty on its cars in the United States to four years, from three.
 Jaguar executives are confident that productivity and quality will improve much more in coming years, especially when they introduce cars whose designs make them much easier to build than existing models.
 
Legacy of Quality
 As president of Ford's Mexican subsidiary, Mr. Scheele was responsible for Ford's plant in Hermosillo that made Escorts for the North American market. Its quality was the highest of any of the high-volume assembly plants examined by the M.I.T. team.
Until they get the new models, Jaguar leaders are counting on improvements in their existing cars to tide them over.
 With the stiffer competition, Christopher Cedergren, a senior vice president of Auto Pacific, predicted that even if the luxury market rebounded in the United States, Jaguar would continue to struggle there. "They probably are not going to move back to the volume levels they enjoyed in '89 and '90 until they come up with a new generation of products," he said.
In response to critics who wonder whether Ford has the expertise to make Jaguar a success, Mr. Scheele insisted that the skills needed to succeed in the luxury and high-volume segments were not "tremendously different. In both, they are "define the product, define the customer, establish a program, deliver the program and satisfy the customer," he said.
But the way he talks about Jaguar's great products in the past -- like the Mark II sedan of the 1960's -- shows that he knows the process is not really so mundane. He knows the consumer will be the ultimate judge, and the pressure is on.
"To me, the sports sedan is not the all-important model," he said. "Really, the all-important one is the first one we bring out, because it has to be a success from day one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas Scheele, Jaguar's new chairman, must try to stop the flow of red ink at the British luxury car maker, which is now owned by Ford, while carrying out an ambitious program to develop fresh models. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times) (pg. D5)
 
Graphs: "Car Maker's Slump" shows the number of Jaguars sold in Britain, U.S. and other areas from '80-'91; and Jaguar's profits and losses from '80-'91. (Source: Jaguar) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 7201 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (58%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; JAGUAR CARS LTD FORD MOTOR CO (98%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; JAGUAR CARS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (58%); UNITED STATES (53%); FLORIDA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; SALES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES LUXURY GOODS (90%); SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SALES PLAN (74%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); CASH FLOW (69%); 

PERSON: SCHEELE, NICHOLAS; PROKESCH, STEVEN NICHOLAS SCHEELE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



671 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Alamo Rent A Car Offering Uniform Rates Nationwide

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Alamo Rent A Car Inc. said yesterday that it was offering new, lower rates that would be uniform throughout its 102 locations nationwide.
But the rate cuts, which will last until June 24, did not immediately set off a widespread price war. Hertz was the only other car rental company to match any of the new rates offered by Alamo, whose share of the car rental market is estimated to be less than 10 percent. 
 Alamo said its uniform rates would make it easier for travel agents to promote the company and for consumers to know how much they would pay in any market.
Under what Alamo calls its "Great American Rates," daily rental prices for an economy car, which ranged from $17.89 in Orlando, Fla., to $33.99 in Washington, D.C., will be lowered at all its outlets to $15 a day. The rate will be $19 a day for a mid-size car and $29 a day for a Cadillac.
Alamo does not rent cars from La Guardia or Kennedy Airport, but the new rates will effectively halve its prices at Newark Airport, the company's location closest to New York City.
The new rates, geared to entice vacationers, require keeping the car over a Saturday night. Other restrictions include a 24-hour advance booking requirement.
Alamo said there were no other mandatory costs, except taxes. In the late 1980's, the Federal Trade Commission charged Alamo with failing to disclose mandatory airport surcharges and gasoline fees to consumers who called the company's reservation operators. Without admitting guilt, Alamo agreed to disclose the surcharges in the future. It also changed its fuel policy to give consumers more choice.
The Hertz Corporation, the nation's largest car rental company, responded to Alamo's move with a $14.99 daily rate for a subcompact, with similar restrictions, also through June 24.
The three other leading rental companies -- Budget, National and Avis -- maintained their current charges. Budget Rent A Car said it would continue to offer its current special rates, which have very few restrictions and offer a discount of $5 a day after the first day's rental. Budget's rates are roughly $10 to $15 higher than Alamo's new rates.
Avis said it planned no further discounts beyond the special $19 daily rate for a subcompact car it was offering for several weeks at most locations. A spokesman for National Car Rental said the company had not decided yesterday whether to follow suit.
About half of Alamo's airport operations lack counters at the terminals, unlike the company's larger competitors.
With its new program, Alamo is hoping to increase its share of the relatively flat, $11.4 billion rental car industry. Gary S. Rubin, executive editor of Auto Rental News, a magazine based in Redondo Beach, Calif., said Alamo would probably win new customers from the ranks of cost-conscious travelers.
But for the auto rental business, the move continues a trend of stiff price competition that has shaved more and more profit from revenues, Mr. Rubin said. "Rates on the whole in the industry are very low," he said. "And they keep getting lower and lower."
Warren H. Lieberman, a senior consultant with Arthur D. Little in San Francisco who tracks the travel industry, said Alamo's nationwide pricing flew in the face of the industry's current strategies that had resulted in hundreds of different prices according to local business conditions and demand. "It's an interesting experiment, and it's definitely innovative," he said.
He said some vacationers might spend more to get a larger model, like the Cadillac. Alamo may also win new customers who, once the rates are discontinued, may decide to rent from Alamo again, he said.
But Mr. Lieberman said the special rates would harm Alamo's revenue to the extent that they were used by some of the company's current customers.
An Alamo spokeswoman, Liz Clark, said Alamo was introducing nationwide pricing because it simplified its advertising and was easy for travel agents to remember, and therefore sell. The company also hopes that customers will think of Alamo as being easy to deal with, having simple prices and few restrictions.
 
Tactic Similar to Airline's
 Alamo's strategy to make the company's rates uniform follows a move by American Airlines two weeks ago to simplify its own fare structure -- sparking increased air travel and prompt responses by American's competitors. Mr. Rubin said Alamo's program would do little to create new travel, because car rentals were typically less costly considerations for vacationers than air fares and hotel rates.
Alamo devised its new rate program several weeks before American's announcement, Ms. Clark said. Alamo's standard pricing nationwide will not necessarily be extended beyond late June, but the company plans to keep offering special rates with minimal restrictions.
Alamo plans to start offering cars at La Guardia and Kennedy Airports within two years, Ms. Clark said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (95%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (95%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALAMO RENT-A-CAR INC; HERTZ CORP ALAMO RENT A CAR INC (95%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); JONES MOTORCARS INC (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALAMO RENT-A-CAR INC; HERTZ CORP FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RATES; RENTING AND LEASING; NYTRAVEL MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (58%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM GARY S RUBIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



672 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Tumble on Economic News

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities tumbled yesterday and long-term interest rates moved above 8 percent again as dealers reacted to stronger-than-expected economic reports released late last week and began to establish positions for the $60 billion worth of new coupon-bearing issues to be sold over the next three weeks.
The Government securities market was closed on Friday in most countries in observance of Good Friday. And European financial markets were closed yesterday for Easter Monday. 
 As a consequence, reaction was delayed to reports on housing starts and consumer confidence, and remarks by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman, who told Congress Friday that the economy had probably expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the first quarter and would gain momentum thereafter.
 
Large Financings Ahead
 In addition, the prospect of bidding this week on $14.75 billion of 2-year Treasury notes and $10.25 billion of 5-year notes, and in early May on 3-year notes, 10-year notes and 30-year bonds, is unsettling the market, traders said.
"We have to deal with the refunding auctions before we get any real sense of how the economy did in April," one government securities trader said. "That is a concern."
Employment data, usually the most important economic statistics released each month, are not expected until May 8, the day after the Treasury completes its quarterly refunding auctions.
The Treasury is expected to announce the size of the refunding auctions on April 29. Most analysts expect the Treasury will need to sell around $35 billion of securities.
 
Negative Sentiment
 "It seems as if the bears are in command right now, and that's worrisome," said Norman Robertson, chief economist at Pittsburgh's Mellon National Bank. "If bond yields rise on each and every sign of economic improvement, that is going to choke off this very fragile recovery, which is barely visible in many parts of the country."
Yesterday's selling helped push up rates at the Treasury's weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills. Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 3.69 percent, up from an average rate of 3.60 percent at last week's auction.
Bids on the new six-month bills generated an average discount rate of 3.86 percent, up from an average of 3.73 percent a week earlier.
 
Higher Long Bond Rate
 But the rise in short-term bill rates was modest compared with the sharp rise in longer-term notes and bonds. By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 9925/32 , down more than a point, or more than $10 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 8.01 percent, compared with 7.92 percent late Thursday.
Given the market's current mood, Mr. Robertson and other market analysts said that bond yields could rise as high as 8 1/8 percent before the refunding auctions.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 9917/32 , down 29/32 , to yield 7.56 percent. And the 7 percent seven-year notes were offered at 9823/32 , down 23/32 , to yield 7.23 percent.
In the when-issued market, the two-year notes that will be sold tomorrow were offered late yesterday at a price to yield 5.48 percent. Last Thursday, those securities had been offered at a price to yield 5.28 percent.
 
5-Year Note Trading
 Meanwhile, the five-year notes to be sold on Thursday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 6.90 percent, up sharply from the 6.75 percent level they were offered at last Thursday.
The erosion in Treasury prices had a dampening effect on issuance of new corporate and tax-exempt debt securities and pushed down prices of outstanding investment-grade issues in those markets.
Only one new issue was priced yesterday, a $225 million offering of high-yield five-year notes from Arkla Inc.
The 9 7/8 percent notes, which are noncallable for life, were priced at $99.896 to yield 9.90 percent, three percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 6 7/8 percent five-year notes at the time of pricing.
The First Boston Corporation acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which was increased in size from $150 million due to strong demand.
The securities are rated Ba-1 by Moody's Investors Service and BB+ by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Corporate traders said that prices of outstanding intermediate-term securities fell by 1/4 point to 3/8 point, while long-term bond prices moved as much as 3/4 point lower.
In the secondary market for municipal bonds, prices of most widely quoted issues fell by 5/8 point to 3/4 point, market participants said.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of new three-month and six-month Treasury bills: (000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.067	98.049	Discounted Rate	3.69%	3.86%	Coupon Yield	3.78%	3.99%	High Price	99.072	98.054	Discounted Rate	3.67%	3.85%	Coupon Yield	3.76%	3.98%	Low Price	99.067	98.044	Discounted Rate	3.69%	3.87%	Coupon Yield	3.78%	4.00%	Accepted at low price	79%	79%	Total applied for	$35,201,015	$32,142,680	Accepted	$11,443,865	$11,407,650	N.Y. applied for	$31,150,475	$29,678,870	N.Y. accepted	$9,616,755	$10,423,520	Noncompetitive	$1,406,845	$961,430	
 
Both these issues are dated April 23, 1992. The three-
month bills mature July 23, 1992 and the six-month bills, Oct. 22, 1992.
 
Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction from Jan.-April, 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT EUROPEAN FINANCIAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); NATIONAL-BANK AG (53%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (53%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (53%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (53%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (53%); PRICES OF TREASURY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EASTER SEASON (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



673 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Quiet Trading On European Bank Holiday

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mostly lower in extremely quiet trading yesterday, softened by the four-day Easter weekend in Europe.
Gold prices fell. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery fell 50 cents a troy ounce, to $336.90. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold bullion at $336.75, off 25 cents. 
 Foreign exchange and gold markets were closed in Europe for a bank holiday following Easter Sunday. Most European markets were also closed on Good Friday, and the currency market closed early in New York on Friday.
The dollar moved in narrow ranges.
"There was no activity with Europe being closed; New York dealers were left to their own devices," said Kevin Lawrie, director of foreign exchange for the Bank of Boston. "We were lucky the market got off the ground today."
In early trading, there was no news to stimulate the market, Mr. Lawrie said.
Later, a plunge in stock prices prompted the dollar's slight selloff against some currencies. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 30.19 points at 3,336.31.
Dealers said many investors went into the extended weekend with large dollar holdings and some took profits yesterday.
Mr. Lawrie said there was underlying demand for the dollar, but investors were expected to wait for news or new economic data to move the dollar before jumping in.
In New York, the dollar was quoted at 134.25 Japanese yen, up from Friday's 133.95 yen. In Tokyo, the dollar rose 0.32 yen, to 134.22 yen. Later, in Middle East trading, it was quoted at 134.24 yen.
Sterling in New York was quoted at $1.7495, compared with $1.7455 Friday. The British pound was quoted at $1.7440 in the Middle East, compared with $1.7448 in Milan Friday.
Also in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6655 German marks, down from 1.6690 Friday. In the Middle East, the dollar was quoted at 1.6715 marks. That compared with 1.6686 late Friday in Milan, one of the few markets open on Good Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Friday's levels, were: 1.5385 Swiss francs, down from 1.5445; 5.6270 French francs, down from 5.64325; 1,251.00 Italian lire, down from 1,255.00, and 1.17965 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1816.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BRITISH POUND (76%); GERMAN MARK (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: KEVIN LAWRIE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



674 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Hershey Follows Mars on 5 Refund

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Take that candy wrapper out of the waste basket.
Hershey, following in the footsteps of its archrival M&M Mars, said yesterday that consumers would get a 5-cent refund for each candy wrapper mailed to the company. 
 When Mars introduced a similar program last week, candy experts said Hershey would be quick to follow.
The two giants are battling for control of the $9 billion candy industry. The companies have been trading the No. 1 spot for several years, both with a little over a third of the market, and sales are so close that neither company is currently claiming supremacy.
"Mars and Hershey are engaged in quite a contest for leadership in the candy industry," said Jerry Prescott, president of the King Group, a candy distributor in Ann Arbor, Mich. He said the two companies combined accounted for 80 percent of the chocolate sales in the country and about 70 percent of candy sales. In addition to its signature Hershey Milk Chocolate line of candy bars, the company makes Mr. Goodbar, Kit-Kats and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups. Besides M&M's, Mars makes Snickers, Three Musketeers and Milky Way candy bars.
Natalie Bailey, a spokeswoman for Hershey Chocolate U.S.A. in Hershey, Pa., acknowledged that the Hershey rebate program was a direct response to the move by Mars. "Very often when one manufacturer introduces a promotion, others will counter to stay competitive," she said. "We expect this will have a positive impact on sales and profits."
The Hershey offer will run until Oct. 31, two weeks longer than the Mars offer. Both companies said nibblers must submit at least 20 wrappers at a time. As an added incentive, Hershey said it would send coupons for four free candy bars for consumers who respond by July 31.
The rebates follow a flat year for candy sales in the United States. While dollar sales were up by about 4 percent last year because of a price increase, volume failed to increase.
Mr. Prescott said the nickel increase in candy bars last year hurt sales with price-sensitive consumers. "Prices were reaching a point where there was some consumer resistance," he said. The average candy bar now costs 45 cents.
 
'Not Recession-Proof'
 "We are recession-resistant but we are not recession-proof," said Dick O'Connell, president of the Chocolate Manufacturers Association, a trade group in McLean, Va.
While candy industry executives hope the refunds will stimulate sales, some marketing experts are skeptical. "I find it hard to believe that people are going to mail something in," said Susan Small-Weil, chief planning officer for Warwick, Baker & Fiore, an advertising agency in New York. "It seems to me to be too much of an effort at a time when there are so many existing coupons for people to use."
But Mary Ellen Dougherty, a spokeswoman for Mars, in Hackettstown, N.J., said the response had been strong so far. Mars also cut its wholesale prices last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (92%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (92%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HERSHEY FOODS CORP; M&M-MARS CO HERSHEY CO (92%); MARS INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERSHEY FOODS CORP; M&M-MARS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CANDY; REBATES; PRICES CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (91%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); CONFECTIONERY WHOLESALERS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); 

PERSON: JERRY PRESCOTT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



675 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Woody Hochswender

 BODY:

Gordon Henderson's Future
Gordon Henderson, a New York designer who seemed on a star track two years ago, may be shopping for a new backer if he loses the support of his licensing partner.
Mr. Henderson's designer collection is produced and sold under a licensing arrangement with World Hong Kong, which is headed by Ricky Sasaki, a mercurial Japanese garment executive with wide-ranging manufacturing interests in Asia. 
 Neither Mr. Henderson nor Mr. Sasaki returned phone calls yesterday. Peter Clements, the president of World Hong Kong U.S.A. in New York, said: "The company is currently negotiating with Mr. Henderson regarding how to go forward. With the economy as it is, there's a lot of re-evaluating going on."
Sales of Mr. Henderson's designer collection -- that is, the styles shown on the fashion runway -- have been depressed by the economic slump, Mr. Clements said.
World Hong Kong has enjoyed greater successes with its private-label clothing for department stores, he added, as well as with But Gordon, a less-expensive spinoff collection designed by Mr. Henderson.
 
A Friend for Perry Ellis
Of the voices praising last week's appointment of Ellin Saltzman as fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman -- an industry chorus as upbeat as "Oklahoma" -- some of the loudest were executives for Perry Ellis.
This spring, for the first time, Bergdorf did not order a Perry Ellis collection designed by Marc Jacobs, although the spring show, with its sequined bandanna skirts and other whimsical Western wear, had been widely acclaimed. The store also eliminated its in-store Perry Ellis boutique, hanging the clothes with other labels.
"They just didn't like it," said Robert Duffy, the president of Perry Ellis. "We're sold there in bits and pieces, but they didn't buy it as a collection. It was definitely unusual."
As corporate fashion director of Macy's and I. Magnin, Mrs. Saltzman has been a consistent fan of the Perry Ellis collection.
 
Ribbons, Jewels and AIDS
Red lapel ribbons, like those worn during the Academy Awards presentation to show support in the struggle against AIDS, are still being seen around town, including a glittery jeweled version. The beaded pins are the work of James Arpad, a jewelry designer, who is donating the profits to an AIDS charity.
"I thought I would take it one step further and make it something of permanence," Mr. Arpad said. The pins are hand-jeweled with Austrian crystal pave on leather, to approximate the feeling of the ribbon.
"A few people wore them at the Oscars, including Richard Pryor," Mr. Arpad said. "And Elizabeth Taylor wore one at last week's Amfar benefit."
Originally created by a group of artists in downtown New York about a year ago, the red ribbons have become a fashion accessory. Mr. Arpad's version cost $100 and can be ordered by calling (212) 944-9406. The profits will be donated to the Design Industries Foundation for AIDS.
 
A Movie Role for Mizrahi
After seeing Isaac Mizrahi's fall fashion show a week ago, Barry Sonnenfeld, the director of "The Addams Family" movie, said he wanted to stage a fashion-show scene for his next movie in the same location, a ground-floor loft at 440 Lafayette Street, across from the Public Theater. Mr. Mizrahi is to take a bit part in the movie, "The Concierge." He plays the fashion designer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: PERY (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PERRY ELLIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); JEWELRY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); PRIVATE LABELS (74%); CHARITIES (72%); AIDS & HIV (69%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY MARC JACOBS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



676 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: What to Wear In a Recession

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
Sportswear dressing, born during the Great Depression -- is with us again. There are new pieces to put together in the separates scheme, which is a key to casual dressing.
The vest is a basic component, worn over a blouse or, new this season, over a jacket. Leather is a major factor, to be mixed with other leather pieces or with silk and wool. The scarf is a significant addition, large enough to serve as a blanket. 
Put together matching pieces and you have a suit. Separate the parts and you have separates.
Does today's torpid economic climate have anything to do with the revival? Everything, says Louis Dell'Olio, who designs for Anne Klein and is one of the foremost practitioners of the art of separates dressing. Women are not in the mood to go out and buy complete new wardrobes each season, he said. But they are not at all averse to buying a piece or two. And if it is the right piece, it will spruce up a lot of other styles. It doesn't have to be a weird piece. The right long skirt will do. So will a pair of clingy pants or even a well-cut jacket.
"The designer's job is to show the way, to offer ideas on how to mix things up," Mr. Dell'Olio said.
This line of reasoning bears a close relationship to the one that gave rise during the 1930's to the kind of clothing known as sportswear, though it had nothing to do with the playing fields. Women who could not afford a dress could buy a sweater and a blouse, which cost less. They could alternate to make their wardrobe look larger than it was, especially useful if the woman worked.
 
An American Specialty
 During the next decade sportswear blossomed. In this country, cut off from Parisian sources of inspiration during World War II, it emerged as a great creative force, a new, less-formal take on fashion. Designers like Claire McCardell, Tom Brigance and Clare Potter emphasized simple, casual cuts, fresh color combinations (like blue with green, pink with red).
The core of their collections was not the meticulously tailored suit or the elaborately jeweled ball gown, but the simple shirt or blouse, the twin sweater set, a casual jacket and a skirt. These could be rearranged in multiple ways. A splatter of sequins on a jersey blouse or a floor-length skirt could adapt these clothes for evening. This mode of dressing fell into disrepute in the 1950's, when Paris couture revived itself. In the 1960's, the minidress, born in London, dominated fashion, followed by blue jeans and pants suits.
Not until the late Anne Klein opened her own business, in the 1970's, did sportswear move to center stage. It came to epitomize American style once again, with practitioners like Calvin Klein, Perry Ellis, Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan bringing their own visions to casual dressing.
Bill Blass, identified with more formal clothes, has always had an affinity for casual suits and sweaters. Part of his American heritage, he says.
"Wardrobes must be versatile," Louis Dell'Olio said. "Some days a woman may want to wear a conventional suit. Some days she might want to look a little way out. Maybe she wants to try a long skirt, but she isn't too sure about it. Separates dressing enables her to test the waters."
As the fashion free-for-all of the 1980's turns into the more restrained 1990's, separates dressing offers women a chance to dip a toe into a new style without total commitment. Sensing this, sportswear designers have widened their net to include new materials and new components. Separates are more relevant than ever.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Matching vest and jacket by Louis Dell'Olio for Anne Klein are worn with gray flannel pants; Mr. Dell'Olio mixes three different patterns in draped skirt, jacket and vest; Fringed leather scarf and shirt with snug pants by Michael Kors; Bill Blass shows twin sweater set with bouffant long evening skirt; Shoulder-baring body suit under halter-neck jumper by Donna Karan; Casual tweed jacket, vest and pants by Calvin Klein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); FASHION DESIGN (79%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HAUTE COUTURE (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, BERNADINE LOUIS DELL'OLIO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



677 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Black Scientists Study the 'Pose' Of the Inner City

BYLINE: By DANIEL GOLEMAN

 BODY:
THE aloof swagger and studied unflappability projected by young black men from inner-city urban areas is a "cool pose," a bit of posturing that insulates them from an otherwise overwhelming social reality, a new report holds.
While the cool pose is often misread by teachers, principals and police officers as an attitude of defiance, psychologists who have studied it say it is a way for black youths to maintain a sense of integrity and suppress rage at being blocked from usual routes to esteem and success. Indeed, black inner-city youths are so besieged that they seem "an endangered species," in the words of Dr. Richard Majors, a psychologist at the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire, who has written on the cool pose. 
 Dr. Majors is at the forefront of a movement of black social scientists who are seeking ways to understand inner-city youths better and to marshal the strengths of the black middle class to help these troubled young people survive.
To be sure, the problems of young black men are not new, nor is the interest of social scientists. But in the last year or so there has been a quickening of interest, with the founding of two academic research centers and a national group of social scientists and policy makers focusing on the predicament of black men.
The evidence for the danger to young black men, especially those from urban areas, is mounting:
*About one in four black men aged 20 to 29 is in prison, on probation or on parole -- more than the total number of black men in college.
*The unemployment rate for black men is more than twice that for whites.
*The leading cause of death among black youth is homicide. A 1991 report from the National Center for Health Statistics found that 48 percent of black males between 15 and 19 who died were shot, while the figure for white males was just 18 percent.
*For black men in Harlem, life expectancy is shorter than that for men in Bangladesh; nationally, black men aged 15 to 29 die at a higher rate than any other age group except those 85 and older.
"It's a sort of genocide, targeting young black males," said Dr. Robert Staples, a professor of sociology at the University of California's medical school in San Francisco. "There's not a systematic conspiracy, but the most recent figures show that over the last decade black men are the only group of Americans actually to have an average decrease of two months in life expectancy. Every other group, including black women, gained from three to six years."
 
Deaths Could Be Prevented
 Dr. Staples added: "What's especially disturbing about the death rate among young black males is that most of it is preventable. Homicide is the leading cause, accidents are second, and suicide is third, with AIDS climbing rapidly."
While the figures for black men as a whole are grim, they are most dire for urban black youth. A study made public last week by the National Center on Institutions and Alternatives found that a far higher proportion of young black men in Washington were involved with the criminal justice system that the proportion of one in four found nationally. Of the black men aged 18 through 35 in the nation's capital, the study found that 42 percent were in prison, out on bond, on probation or parole or being sought by the police. The study did not consider the figures for whites, said the institute's president, Jerome G. Miller, because the number "would have been negligible, less than 10 percent."
A similar situation of greater disparity for inner-city youth prevails in education. Dr. Alvin Poussaint, a psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School, said: "The picture is not as bad if you include all black males, but if you focus on inner-city youth, the problems are overwhelming. For example, in 1965, about 25 percent of black families nationally were headed by women, while now the figure is at 50 percent. But it's more like 90 percent in many housing projects."
 
Greater Gains for Black Women
 Black women seem to be outpacing black men in making gains in education and the job market. "Most progress among blacks is due to advances among women, which masks the problems of black men," Dr. Staples said.
"In medicine, fewer than 15 percent of black medical students were women in the 1970's," said Dr. Poussaint. "Last year, 56 percent of black medical school graduates were women. I hear the same story in other areas of professional education."
"Even on black college campuses women outachieve the men, with women students at about 80 percent of the honor role. By contrast, in special education classes in urban grammar schools, close to 80 percent of students are black males," possibly because they are shunted into the classes more readily than white boys are, Dr. Poussaint said. "You see the disadvantage from the very beginning."
Much of the notable work on the problems of inner-city black youth has been done by black sociologists like William Julius Wilson at the University of Chicago and Elijah Anderson at the University of Pennsylvania, part of a long tradition that extends back to the work E. Franklin Frazier, a black social scientist in the 1940's.
Dr. Majors's book "Cool Pose: The Dilemmas of Black Manhood in America," written with Dr. Janet Mancini Billson, an executive officer at the American Sociological Association in Washington, is part of the most recent wave of research on black urban youth. The book, published this month by Lexington Press, is based largely on intensive interviews by Dr. Majors and on a six-year study of 60 black teen-agers in Boston, conducted by researchers, including Dr. Billson, at the Harvard School of Education.
 
'To Appear in Control'
 The cool pose is a set of language, mannerisms, gestures and movements that "exaggerate or ritualize masculinity," Dr. Majors said. "The essence of cool is to appear in control, whether through a fearless style of walking, an aloof facial expression, the clothes you wear, a haircut, your gestures or the way you talk. The cool pose shows the dominant culture that you are strong and proud, despite your status in American society."
Flashy or provocative clothes are part of the cool pose. An unbuckled belt, expensive sneakers and thick gold chains, for example, are part of the cool look.
Some elements of the cool pose have been analyzed in terms of kinesics, the subtleties of body movements. One is a distinctive swaggering gait, almost a walking dance, which can include tilting the head to one side while one arm swings to the side with the hand slightly cupped while the other hand hangs to the side or is in the pocket.
Other aspects of cool pose are now widely imitated in white culture, according to Dr. Majors's book. These include rap and the elaborate handshakes, like the high-five popularized by athletes.
The cool pose is by no means found among the majority of black men but is particularly common among inner-city black youth as a tactic for psychological survival to cope with such rejections as storekeepers who refuse to buzz them into a locked shop.
For a young black man whose prospects in life are poor at best, the cool pose is empowering, Dr. Majors said. "He can appear competent and in control in the face of adversity," he said. "It may be his only source of dignity and worth, a mask that hides the sting of failure and frustration."
The cool pose appeals, too, as a sign of manliness. "Lots of inner-city black boys live in a world with few men around," Dr. Poussaint said. "They are struggling to find ways to be a man. Adopting the cool pose is a way to show their maleness."
Dr. Staples said: "Much of cool pose is ritualistic imitation of peers. If you're not seen as cool, you're an outsider. It's a way to be included."
But the cool pose has its negative side. "Though it's a source of pride and identity, the cool pose is dysfunctional in some ways," Dr. Billson said. "It also means you may not be able to back down from a fight or apologize to your girlfriend when you've done something hurtful."
Another drawback of the cool pose is that it is often misread by whites. A 1990 article in the journal Black Issues in Higher Education by Ed Wiley 3d, its assistant managing editor, described how white teachers and principals interpret the cool pose as aggressive or intimidating. It suggests that this cultural misinterpretation is one reason black boys are suspended more frequently and for longer periods of time, and are more likely to be assigned to remedial classes.
"What black males see as cool, as being suave and debonair, can be read by whites as signifying irresponsibility, shiftlessness or unconcern," Dr. Majors said.
The unflappable mask donned with the cool pose often becomes a psychological reality, with young black men unable to let down their emotional guard even with those closest to them. That stance, Dr. Majors said, means "some black males have difficulty disclosing their deepest feelings even to their best friends and girlfriends."
Dr. Majors cautions that the theory is not meant as the whole explanation for the behavior of black men but is just one of many insights needed to understand their problems better. Dr. Majors is a leader in the organization of a new group, the National Council for African-American Men, founded in 1990, to further such research. This summer it will publish the first issue of an academic journal, The Journal of African-American Male Studies.
Some black social scientists object to focusing on the problems of urban youth. They point out, for example, that if one in four young black males is in the criminal justice system, that also means three out of four are not. "In order to help the one out of four, we need to better mobilize the three out of four," said Dr. Roderick Watts, a psychologist at De Paul University in Chicago.
Dr. Watts is studying the efforts of middle-class black men who have recently organized groups whose members serve as mentors to troubled black urban youths. These groups are "a black arm of the men's movement," said Dr. Poussaint.
One of the earliest responses was a project, started by the Urban League in the mid-1980's, that was intended to foster responsibility among black youth, help them stay in school, find work, and, for those who were unmarried fathers, to pay child support.
Within the last few years, said Dr. Poussaint, virtually every city has a black men's group dedicated to helping inner-city youth, largely through programs to provide mentors on the model of the Big Brother program, where a man is matched with a fatherless young boy.
"Those black men who do succeed move out of the urban ghettoes," said Dr. Poussaint. "There's more and more concern about how black males fare when there are no positive models of manhood in their lives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Richard Majors, psychologist, studies "cool pose" of young blacks. (Steve Woit for The New York Times) (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RESEARCH; URBAN AREAS SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MEN (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (86%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); PAROLE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); PROBATION (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); DEATHS (68%); AIDS & HIV (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); STATISTICS (68%); SUICIDE (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (63%); 

PERSON: GOLEMAN, DANIEL; MAJORS, RICHARD (DR) SIR GEORGE YOUNG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



678 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Sinking Seawolf Won't Sink Jobs

 BODY:
Jobs, jobs, jobs. That's the rallying cry of defense contractors who want to keep building arms America no longer needs. Regrettably members of Congress, of both parties, are heeding the cry and trying to restore funds for weapons like the Seawolf submarine, whose mission sank with the Soviet threat.
The legislators need to look skeptically at the contractors' job claims. Beyond a brief transition period, the size of the defense budget is unrelated to the unemployment rate. That's because gains in civilian employment will offset the defense job losses -- even in Connecticut and Rhode Island, where much of the work on Seawolf submarines is done. 
 Indeed, defense contractors worry greatly that they will soon have to compete for workers with non-defense industries. This competition will be good news for laid-off defense workers.
Defense industries now employ about 3.1 million people. Under President Bush's proposed five-year, $50 billion cut in the defense budget, that will decline by about 900,000 by 1997, according to the Defense Budget Project, a Washington think tank. Cuts of $149 billion over five years would reduce defense jobs by 200,000 more -- in a private sector that employs nearly 100 million.
Connecticut, one of the hardest-hit states, stands to lose some 35,000 of its 99,000 defense jobs by 1997 under Mr. Bush's cuts -- about 2.1 percent of its private sector work force. How many jobs would be temporarily spared by saving the Seawolf sub? About 5,000, says Roger Tetrault, general manager of General Dynamics's Electric Boat Division, Seawolf's prime contractor.
But Mr. Tetrault is not worried that his workers will be unemployed. He fears they will be employed -- by other companies. Earlier this month he told the Senate Armed Services Committee that the "intense competition for skilled labor" would make it more difficult for Electric Boat to reconstitute a skilled work force to build a new generation of subs in 1998 or later.
That is no reason to keep producing Seawolf. The Pentagon can find work for the few uniquely skilled suppliers of critical submarine components. Otherwise, civilian industries can make good use of laid-off defense workers.
Those who are temporarily unemployed or who take other jobs at lower wages will suffer. These workers served America well and deserve more than a handshake and a pink slip. They deserve help in finding a good job -- not makework building unneeded weapons at taxpayers' expense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; EDITORIALS; SEAWOLF (SUBMARINE); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIRING AND PROMOTION; FEDERAL AID (US) DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



679 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Wasteland Myth

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Everybody knows that American politics is an intellectual wasteland, a desert barren of clear and courageous thought.
Everybody knows it, but it's not true. It is one of those myths pounded into our heads day after day until it becomes accepted as truth. At that moment it does become a kind of reality, affecting the country's vision of what it is, where it wants to go and how in Heaven to get there. 
 Here on the desk are four pieces of evidence against the myth that American politics is brain dead -- statements made by prominent politicians.
Two are about crime, for so many Americans the most fearful problem in the country. Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey talked about crime and racial fears, with both clearness and courage. Senator John F. Kerry of Massachusetts made the essential point that understanding the economic and social causes of destructive behavior is one thing, excusing it on those grounds is entirely another.
The other two are about foreign affairs. Gov. Bill Clinton spoke about a reality almost never mentioned by American politicians -- since democracies do not attack democracies, why, the spread of democracy is the real hope for peace and stability.
And Vice President Quayle spoke of the importance of Israel and the U.S. to each other, with a sense of history, realism and courtesy long absent in the State Department and the White House.
These speeches are just four among scores I have come across in the past year or so that would strengthen the U.S. at home and abroad if enough attention were paid and action taken.
I selected them because they were made in the last few weeks. That was when the wasteland myth began taking such hold that Americans by the millions actually are turning either to a Jerry Brown who said that the country was ungovernable, to a Ross Perot whose greatest strength is that he never spent a day in either government or politics and does not intend to unless he is named a Presidential candidate by fatly funded acclamation, or even to an embarrassment called Patrick Buchanan.
How did we even get to the point where so many in this country, which was conceived, born and grew in realistic optimism, now see as a failure the very political system under which it achieved the longest and strongest records of stability and progress known to the world?
For one thing, too much of the political world, the press and academia has either spread or passively accepted the idea that the real and deep American ills are signposts to some kind of collapse of the system. They write and talk as if that system had never encountered and dealt with such little things as legal segregation, depression and war.
And for another -- examine the list of speakers above. Where is the President of the United States?
The miserable reality is that as President, George Bush has been incapable of expressing himself with intellectual clarity or real candor. He never really explained fully why he was taking the U.S. to war in the Persian Gulf -- or why he left Saddam Hussein in power. He has never talked of crime, drugs, race, poverty in words that could convince the country that he was thinking with clarity of mind and heart.
Remember his great economic plan for America delivered with so much hooh-hah in the State of the Union Message? Exactly what was it, again?
How many believe that Mr. Bush is so convinced that a woman choosing abortion is committing a crime? Can he convince Mrs. Bush?
Mr. Bush cannot speak effectively of crime and race because he has not won his race credentials. He cannot speak of democracy and stability because he befriended too many dictatorships.
But the idea that our problems are all the President's fault is one more self-absolving myth. Americans have not suddenly become some great blubbery victim, waiting sprawled to be trampled on.
We make choices every Election Day. Try running on the sound platform of five-year tithing to wipe out the debt, more homework and a hundred-dollar fine for self-pity.
After Election Day the problems will remain -- and the pressure to do something within the political system. It's not an intellectual desert but it sure could use some intellectual irrigation from the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); JERRY BROWN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



680 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Peru Wants Stability More Than Due Process

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The events you report in "Peru Suspends Democracy, Citing Revolt" (front page, April 7) may seem dramatic and alarming at first glance; however, the institutional takeover by President Alberto K. Fujimori and the army deserve at least a careful investigation. Independent polls show that more than 70 percent of Peruvians agree or go along with the measures taken by the President. The international community has nothing but condemnation, and that is understandable. International observers see only an assault on elected institutions. Peruvians see a ray of hope.
The institutional takeover was announced to alleviate the pressing problems of Peru: terrorism, violence, corruption and economic disarray, almost anarchy. 
 Everyone agrees that something had to be done. The international community adheres to solutions worked out through the democratic process. The Fujimori Government has a different view, in which the electoral processes and elected institutions were an obstacle. Why is it that many Peruvians sided with the President on calling out the military, suspending the constitution and closing Congress? Let's examine three of the most shocking measures.
* Closing Congress: Peruvians elect members of Congress every five years. They are selected from lists supplied by the political parties or coalitions, according to proportional vote. Members of the Senate are elected at large, and the members of the House of Representatives are supposed to represent a province. They do not represent and are not really accountable to their districts and the country. They have a history of voting themselves annual pay raises, the latest figure showing them at $2,000 a month, in a country where the minimum wage is $50 a month. Members of Congress have immunity from criminal prosecution, and they have certainly abused that power.
The political clout of Congress, its constant abuse of privileges and support of the status quo made it very unpopular. Mr. Fujimori is also correct to blame Congress for blocking necessary legislation to spur economic growth and stop terrorism.
* Suspending the Constitution: It may seem the Government really went too far, and perhaps it did. Why are the people so indifferent? The Peruvian Constitution, although a valuable legal document, is full of technical flaws and ambiguous articles. Peruvians associate it with excesses like parliamentary immunity, extra protection for the powerful and terrorists. The average Peruvian feels that the Constitution works only for the ruling elite and the politicians.
* Calling on the military: Peruvian history is plagued with military governments. It is safe to assume Peruvians dislike military governments. Why are they supporting the military? This is no ordinary military takeover. Some analysts say it is not a military government at all. The President and commander in chief is an elected civilian, and that is the most striking difference.
Military intervention comes as a relief to the millions of Peruvians who are victims of violence, terrorism, corruption and social unrest. Law enforcement cannot stop the constant attacks by terrorist groups and organized criminal bands. Furthermore, a large sector of the police and the judiciary is corrupt. Criminals, drug dealers and terrorists walk the streets, while ordinary, often innocent, people wait years for a trial in a deplorable judicial system. For average Peruvians the priority is law and order, not due process.
It seems also that President Fujimori has at least a temporary vote of confidence from the people of Peru. His record in two years is one of defiance and skillful attempts to put Peru back in the international economic system. The Peruvian people are giving President Fujimori and his plan a chance. So should the international community, at least for now.
 
WALTER PALOMINO-VILLAMONTE
Chicago, April 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CLOSING CONGRESS (90%); MEMBERS OF CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLOSING CONGRESS (90%); MEMBERS OF CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DUE PROCESS (87%); ARMIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



681 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Fed Gives New Evidence Of 80's Gains by Richest

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
The very rich increased their share of the nation's total pool of privately held property during the 1980's economic boom, researchers at the Federal Reserve and the Internal Revenue Service reported yesterday.
Total private wealth grew in the decade, and people at many income levels owned more assets at the peak of the boom in 1989 than they had six years earlier. But the richest 1 percent of American households, all of them millionaires at a minimum, owned a bigger share of the total at the end of that period, according to the Federal Reserve's triennial Survey of Consumer Finances. They accounted for 37 percent of private net worth in 1989, up from 31 percent in 1983. 
 By 1989, the top 1 percent (834,000 households with about $5.7 trillion of net worth) was worth more than the bottom 90 percent of Americans (84 million households, with about $4.8 trillion in net worth).
These findings on wealth follow a recent report by the Congressional Budget Office that showed that the 1 percent of American families with the highest incomes also reaped the lion's share of the gains in average after-tax family income during the late 1970's and the 1980's.
 
'Jump in Inequality'
 The wealth of a household, or net worth, is what it owns (including stocks and bonds, housing and other real estate, checking and savings accounts, and so forth) minus what it owes in debt (including mortgage loans, credit card balances and business loans). The Fed included gains from assets that had appreciated in value even if they had not been sold. Wealth is typically more concentrated than income, but it was even more so than usual by 1989.
"It's another example of a big unprecedented jump in inequality to Great Gatsby levels," said Paul R. Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who was one of the first economists to calculate how much of the income gains had gone to the top income-earners.
The new data on the growing concentration of wealth are likely to provide yet more ammunition to the election-year debate over how best to restart economic growth and distribute the gains.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, reviewed the data before their release, according to a Fed spokesman, Robert Moore. Although Mr. Greenspan would not comment on the survey results yesterday, he has recently voiced concern over rising inequality, and held a meeting of the nation's top income experts at the central bank in February. In a speech last month, he attributed some of Americans' current pessimism to the trend.
"A potentially significant factor in the current state of long-run concerns is that the distribution of family income has become more dispersed," he told an audience of aspiring M.B.A.'s at the University of Washington last month.
The wealth surge during the 1980's boom was partly spurred by big gains in pay for the top income earners, which helped increase their wealth. But it also reflected a sharp rise in the values of assets like real estate and stocks. The share of the top 1 percent hardly budged between 1962 and 1983.
The jump in wealth at the top is the first significant rise in wealth concentration since the 1920's, economists said. "Inequality is at its highest since the great leveling of wages and wealth during the New Deal and World War II," said a Harvard University economic historian, Claudia Goldin.
This latest look at the gains of the rich was released in a technical working paper by Arthur B. Kennickell, an economist at the Federal Reserve, and R. Louise Woodburn, a mathematical statistician at the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Kennickell and his associates at the Fed had already reported the survey's general results in the Fed Bulletin's January 1992 issue, noting at the time that "the distributions of income and net worth became more concentrated between 1983 and 1989." But they did not provide any detail then.
 
Very High Incomes
 The survey sampled some 3,143 households, concentrating especially on families with very high incomes who are typically undercounted in most surveys, including those by the Census Bureau. The Fed survey, and especially the results for the very rich, is subject to significant sampling error.
Furthermore, because the Government does not require individuals to report on their property or their debts the way they must report income to the I.R.S., the figures are more subject to caveats than data on income.
"You can't take the numbers too literally," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Kennickell and Ms. Washburn reported that various statistical tests that they performed showed a statistically significant rise in inequality in the distribution of wealth during the 1980's. The working paper was subjected to nearly three months of internal scrutiny before it was released.
Still, some economists, including Lawrence Lindsey, a governor of the Federal Reserve, contend that shifts in wealth are virtually meaningless because there is a lot of turnover at the top. Farmers and oil barons were among the newly rich of the 1970's. Wall Street wizards and real estate moguls -- some of whom are now bankrupt -- replaced them in the 1980's.
 
Trends Are Backed
 But most economists believe that the greater concentration of wealth both reflected and reinforced the growing inequality of income during the 1970's and 1980's. "There's no reason to think that the trends as opposed to the level of wealth inequality are being poorly measured," said Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard University.
To at least some analysts, the findings of the Fed survey fly in the face of America's idea of itself. Writing in 1830, Alexis de Toqueville began his famous observation of the young nation, "Democracy in America," by saying, "Nothing struck me more forcibly than the general equality of condition among the people."
Nonetheless, most economists believe that the greater concentration of wealth both reflected and reinforced the growing inequality of incomes during the 1970's and 1980's. A recent study shows that there is significant turnover among the rich, but economists caution against overstating its importance. "There's a lot less turnover in wealth than in income," Mr. Katz said.
Even while chief executives, top professionals and entrepreneurs benefitted from surging pay in the 1980's, with gains that far outpaced wage growth for people lower on the pay scale, owners of company shares, high-tech start-up companies and real estate reaped windfalls as asset values shot up.
 
What They Own
 The top 1 percent held a disproportionate share of many types of assets: 49 percent of publicly held stock, 62 percent of business assets, 78 percent of bonds and trusts and 45 percent of nonresidential real estate.
But during the 1980's, stock ownership by the wealthy dropped -- at least among households with incomes of $50,000 or more, while those with lesser incomes increased their share holdings.
One reason may be taxes. The decline in the top income tax rate to 28 percent in 1986 essentially made stock, where much of the gain is appreciation, less attractive, and partnerships more appealing.
Checking accounts, cars and houses, on the other hand, are much more equally distributed. The rich own less than 9 percent of housing assets and 5.3 percent of cars, for example.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about growth in total private wealth misstated the number constituting the top 1 percent of American families. It is 934,000, not 834,000.

GRAPHIC: Table: Share of total net worth of American families.

 	 	 		1983	1989	Richest 1% of families	31%	37%	Next richest 9%	35%	31%	Remaining 90%	33%	32%	 (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg. A1)
 
Graph: "Who Owns What" shows share of total value of assets owned by families in each part of the wealth spectrum in 1989. (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%); BONDS (64%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1992



682 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
U.N. PLEADS FOR AFGHAN PACT
A special United Nations envoy met with Afghan rebel commanders in a northern stronghold and pleaded with them to think of the future of the country. Many fear an eruption of ethnic warfare. A1
The U.N. Secretary General vows to protect Afghanistan's borders. A12
Pakistan's influence over Afghan guerrillas now seems limited. A12
 
5 WHITE LAWMAKERS JOIN A.N.C.
The African National Congress effectively gained a beachhead in Parliament when five white lawmakers joined the group. The legislators switched allegiance from the small Democratic Party, once the political home for white liberals. A3
 
SUMO WRESTLER CHARGES RACISM
Konishiki, the 576-pound American who is Japan's biggest sports star, said that "simple racism" explained why he had been denied the highest rank in sumo wrestling. A3
 
U.S. NEEDS ALLIES, BAKER WARNS
Secretary of State Baker spelled out America's approach to foreign policy in the post-cold-war world, saying it must aim to build a "democratic peace" around the globe. He warned against isolationism and "America first" patriotism. A6
 
YELTSIN DRESSES DOWN HIS FOES
President Yeltsin brought a long, verbose session of the highest Russian Parliament to a close with a stern rebuke to lawmakers for "outbursts of senseless confrontations" with the executive branch. A10
Grueling return for descendants of Georgia's old ruling family. A4
 
SUPPORT FOR PERU'S LEADER SLIPS
The Government of President Fujimori showed signs of serious erosion as officials responsible for Peru's economic recovery programs and ties with the United States resigned. The Congress, which Mr. Fujimori dissolved two weeks ago, swore in an opposition President. A7
 
DAILY HORROR IN SARAJEVO
Serbian guerrillas shelled Sarajevo's old Muslim-Slav center and furious gun battles erupted anew after European truce negotiators failed to halt a three-week offensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A10
 
'RAY' IN CLOUD OVER LIBYA
President Mubarak of Egypt met with Colonel Qaddafi of Libya and said there was "a ray of hope" in the impasse over Libya's refusal to hand over suspects wanted by the West in an airline bombing. But he conceded the matter "needs work." A5
 
After the next round, Mideast peace talks will shift to Rome. A8
 
National A14-22
 
F.B.I. AND BLACK AGENTS SETTLE
The F.B.I., accused by black agents of discriminating in promotions, transfers and assignments, announced that it had reached an agreement to promote some of them and provide dozens of others new jobs and special training. A1
 
CALIFORNIA EXECUTES HARRIS
After a night of legal battling that included one reprieve granted after he had already been strapped into the chair in San Quentin's gas chamber, Robert Alton Harris was put to death. The execution was California's first in 25 years. A1
 
'IT WAS MONEY WE RELIED ON'
Regulators are trying to restrict an increasingly widespread but little-known practice: the transfer of hundreds of thousands of annuities and life and health insurance policies from one company to another each year. In the worst cases, consumers have bought insurance or annuities from apparently strong companies, only to find that they must try to collect from other, insolvent companies. A1
 
TSONGAS'S HEALTH HISTORY
Contrary to their earlier assurances, doctors of former Senator Tsongas now say that he suffered a recurrence of lymphoma in 1987, less than a year after undergoing an experimental bone marrow transplant, and was treated with an additional course of radiation. A1
Some of Brown's days have been bad, and his nights worse. A20
A House member was dropped as Democratic platform chief. A20
Clinton's camp has a two-pronged strategy on negative ratings. A20
 
NEW AIDS DRUG GAINS
In a test of a new Federal policy to speed certain drugs to the marketplace, a committee of advisers to the F.D.A. recommended that DDC be given conditional approval for AIDS treatment. A22
 
LOW BIRTH WEIGHT ON THE RISE
Although the nation continues to make gains in infant mortality, the number of babies born abnormally small is increasing, the Government said. A18
 
NEW FINDING ON PROSTATE CANCER
Swedish researchers reported that men with early prostate cancer who are not treated for their disease have excellent survival rates that rival those seen in patients who receive aggressive therapy. A18
 
POLLUTION RULING BY JUSTICES
The Supreme Court shielded Federal agencies from having to pay fines for violations of Federal laws regulating water pollution and hazardous waste. A16
 
A DIFFERENT STATE GOVERNMENT
Most states will emerge from the shadow of the recession in the next few years, but when they do their governments will probably be smaller operations that are more efficient but provide less aid to the middle class and the poor, budget officials across the nation say. A14
 
Education Page B8
Duluth, Minn., has hired a private company to manage school system.
Men on campus at Wabash College, one of the last three of its kind.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
A SURPLUS AND A TURNABOUT
New York City will end this fiscal year with a substantial surplus and will not have to borrow to help balance next year's budget, the Dinkins administration said. It represents a turnabout from the budget ills that dominated the first half of Mayor Dinkins's term. A1
 
UNITED WAYS GEAR FOR BATTLE
United Way directors across the metropolitan region are getting ready to do battle for their personal reputations and the future of their charities after direct repercussions from the scandal that has shaken the United Way of America. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
The Living Section C1-10
Restaurant help often eat well. C1
At lunch with Nathan Lane. C1
 
Health Page C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
Fox-Cameron megadeal. C15
Dance: "Peter and the Wolf." C15
 
Sports B9-15
Baseball: Mets, Gooden topple Cardinals. B9
Hockey: Devils even series with Rangers. B9
 
Obituaries A23
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials A24
Higher education, or lower?
Unfair trade, and its victims.
The Court's rush to kill.
New York's showdown.
 
Letters A24
Anna Quindlen: Hearts and minds. A25
Political lives in fiction's mirror:
Joyce Carol Oates: "Black Water." A25
Tom Wicker: "Donovan's Wife." A25
Richard Perle: "Hard Line." A25

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American sumo champion in Japan charges racism. (Reuters) A3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); PERU (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ROME, GA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); PERU (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ROME, GA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); WRESTLING (74%); MARTIAL ARTS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); ATHLETES (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); SPORTS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (63%); 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



683 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2301 words

HEADLINE: Affiliates Feeling Pinch of United Way Scandal

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

 BODY:
United Way organizations across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are suffering direct repercussions, sooner than expected, from the scandal that has shaken the United Way of America.
As a result, the region's United Way directors -- from the $19,600-a-year single staff member in Sullivan County, N.Y., to the $291,000-a-year New York City chief -- are suiting up to do battle for their personal reputations and the future of their charities. 
 On a personal level, local executives of the charity federation are moving quickly to relinquish any perquisites, pay raises or property that might stamp them, fairly or unfairly, as abusers of the public trust. Organizationally, United Way chapters are conducting an aggressive campaign to disassociate themselves from the national group.
Although most local fund-raising was concluded by the time William Aramony was forced to resign as president of the United Way of America in February, unprecedented numbers of employees at New York area companies have canceled the pledges they made in the fall, said Betty Beene, president of the United Ways of Tri-State. And of the few fund-raising campaigns held in the spring, some have been postponed, while others are flailing, Ms. Beene said. But at least one spring drive -- the one at Norstar Bank on Long Island -- seems to be holding its own.
 
Donations Expected to Drop
 Partly in response to the scandal, Tri-State, a partnership of 35 United Way groups in the region, has so far lowered its fund-raising projection for this year by $1.8 million. That is less than 1 percent of the $194.9 million in contributions now forecast, and it results in part from the region's economic decline.
Nonetheless, the new forecast represents the first acknowledgement by United Way that the scandal has had a tangible impact, and the decline could well continue, Ms. Beene said.
"The question is not whether damage will be done as a result of the scandal, but how much and for how long," she said.
The United Way, a network of 2,100 local organizations, raises most of its money through workplace donations, which flow from local chapters to local social service agencies. About $29 million, or 1 cent of each dollar donated to 1,400 local chapters, goes to support the United Way of America, from which Mr. Aramony was forced to resign after media revelations of his $463,000 salary and benefits package, a lavish expense account and financial manipulations in the creation of several spinoff organizations. He has denied all wrongdoing, saying all his actions were intended to further the charity.
Many United Way professionals fear that the scandal bodes ill for the fall, when most fund-raising drives begin. But they share a conviction -- voiced even by critics of the federation -- that the United Way is too entrenched in the American workplace to suffer permanent harm.
Nonetheless, local United Way directors are hustling to control the damage.
"What choice do we have?" said Richard A. Lewin, president of the United Way of Essex and West Hudson in New Jersey. "Not even Jim and Tammy Bakker got, in a concentrated form, as much bad exposure as we've had in the last few months."
Ralph A. Dickerson Jr., executive director of the United Way of New York City, is giving up the pied-a-terre paid for by his employer, a $4,700-a-month apartment on the Upper East Side. Mr. Dickerson, who earned $290,000 last year in salary, bonus and benefits, is also dropping his employer-paid $1,200 annual membership in the Marco Polo Club, a luncheon club at the Waldorf-Astoria.
 
Cheaper Paper Clips And Salary Reviews
 At the same time, Ms. Beene is working to move the charity's regional headquarters from what she now considers its distastefully ostentatious address on Park Avenue. Ms. Beene, who said she recently went so far as to cut costs by switching to a cheaper paper clip, has also asked Tri-State's board to review her salary and benefits, which total $263,600.
At smaller United Way chapters in the region, directors are going out of their way to be open about their salaries and benefits. The Rockland County director, Lynn Westbrook, for example, has posted her W-2 form on the bulletin boards of local companies. She earns $57,000 a year.
In attempts to divorce themselves, at least on the surface, from the national organization, local United Way chapters are playing down their relationship with the United Way of America in advertisements, letters to the editor and meetings with corporations. "We share a brand name," said Mr. Dickerson of New York City.
Additionally, a handful of the bigger local affiliates are withholding their dues to the United Way of America -- most notably New York City, which pays about $556,000 a year. The majority of local chapters, however, do not pay dues until the summer. So they are not yet forced to make a decision, although the withholding of dues across the country has already forced the national group to borrow money, said Kenneth W. Dam, United Way of America's interim president.
But the desire of local chapters to sever ties with United Way of America, born of self-preservation, goes only so far. Many local chapters consider indispensable such dues-supported services as national advertising -- particularly National Football League television commercials -- and professional training for fund-raisers.
In fact, many local groups are not prepared to abandon two of the seven controversial spinoff companies created by Mr. Aramony. Sales/Service America Inc., a for-profit company run by Mr. Aramony's son Robert, offers United Way goods -- billboard posters, stationery, lapel pins and other items -- at such convenience and, in many cases, such low prices that many local directors do not want to stop ordering from its catalogue.
"Why should I pay a fortune to get a fund-raising film made for me when I can order one starring Angela Lansbury for $58 from Sales America?" said William E. Martin, executive director of the United Way in Hudson County.
More pointedly, local United Way directors have no desire to turn down the merchandise -- hundreds of gallons of paint, vacuum cleaners, dental hygiene kits -- from Gifts in Kind America, a nonprofit company created by Mr. Aramony to funnel corporations' surplus goods to local charities.
United Way of America's board has vowed to take control of the ancillary corporations started by Mr. Aramony, who is aggressively fighting the accusations against him. His spending included flights on the supersonic Concorde and the frequent use of chauffeured limousines.
 
Supersonic Jets, Chauffeured Cars
 After Mr. Aramony's forced resignation, the board of Tri-State grappled with its own bad publicity, which was generated by a $3.3 million lump-sum pension payment to its former president, Calvin E. Green. The board, which claimed that it did not know the details of Mr. Green's pension plan until last year, two years after his retirement, is seeking to recover a portion of the money.
But Mutual of America, the pension plan administrator, said it was the board that set Mr. Green's pension.
At the United Way of New York City, the largest partner of Tri-State with $93 million in revenues, Mr. Dickerson has sought to divest himself of perks that might serve as "lightning rods" for controversy. He saw nothing wrong, he said, with keeping a second apartment at United Way's expense, because his home is in Kingston, N.Y. Asked why he needed a $4,700-a-month apartment on East 86th Street, Mr. Dickerson said: "The apartment situation was used for a number of affairs that I go to late at night. A lot of things require that I go there and be there and have a tux on."
Nevertheless, Mr. Dickerson will move out of the apartment by the end of May. He said he lamented the recent focus on his compensation, which totaled about $307,000 last year, including a final payment -- $16,792 -- for his move from Pittsburgh four years ago. His relocation costs have totaled $75,000.
"Do I feel sensitive about how much money I earn?" Mr. Dickerson said. "There's no question about it. So many times I have heard that real charity is when people don't take anything. I'm not sure that's reality."
Amanda Bowman, a senior vice president who left an advertising company to take a $107,000-a-year job at New York City's United Way, added that professionals must be paid competitive rates. "I took a pay cut to come here and do something I believe in," she said. "I see my career here rather as doing the Peace Corps."
 
Old Assumptions Meet New Thinking
 To assuage donors' concerns, big United Ways are rethinking their businesses. The United Way of New York City has hired independent companies to examine its accounting practices and study executive pay. The United Ways of Tri-State has commissioned a salary review.
"I think United Way is going to be better off because of this ordeal," said Willie B. Edlow, the $85,000-a-year president of the United Way of Eastern Fairfield County, Conn. "We had been moving through life on a lot of assumptions that we were pure, that nobody would ever challenge this sacred institution. Now the accountability factor is in the forefront and we have to deal with it and that's the way it should be."
Throughout the region, United Way professionals are shaken by the sudden popular assumption that, by association, they are corrupt.
Mr. Martin, for 36 years the executive director of the United Way in Jersey City, raised the money to pay for an office building through 14 years of Sunday bingo games. "I always felt like I walked down the streets of this community with dignity and pride because I was 'Mr. Clean,' " he said. "Now I can't sleep nights. Now I go into a restaurant, I get: 'Hey, Bill, you fly the Concorde lately? Where do you live?' "
In fact, Mr. Martin, who earns $84,000 a year, lives in a West New York apartment that cost him $25,000 17 years ago. He drives a 1987 Buick LeSabre.
In general, the highest-paid United Way directors in the region run the biggest operations, which raise the most money. Excluding Mr. Dickerson and Ms. Beene, the eight directors managing the biggest funds earn from $79,000 to $127,000 a year. The only perquisite they enjoy is the business use of a company car.
"We lead simple lives," said Anthony J. Tomanio, the $80,000-a-year executive director of the United Way of Stamford, Conn. "I've never flown first-class in my life."
 
Apologizing For Excesses
 Anxious to meet any outrage head on, United Way directors have visited donor companies to apologize for the excesses they say are not theirs.
"You have to say, 'I am embarrassed,' " said Dell Raudelunas, who earns $90,895 as director of the Union County United Way in New Jersey and five smaller United Ways that are run out of her office. "It's like if your kid gets into trouble."
The United Way directors are trying to shift the focus from Mr. Aramony's rides on the Concorde to the struggles of social service groups that depend on the charity. They stress what they say is their low overhead costs. Across the region, an average of 16 cents of every dollar contributed goes to administrative costs: about 13 cents to the affiliate's expenses and 3 cents to run the Tri-State office.
It costs New York City affiliate about 14.5 cents of every dollar to run its office. Referring to the administrative cost, Luis Miranda, director of the Hispanic Federation of New York City, a coalition of 40 agencies, said: "If they want to take those 14.5 cents and pay a guy $200,000, it's their internal doing -- as long as those 14.5 cents do not become 30 cents."
As of now, most corporations plan to continue their relationship with the United Way. It is too early to tell what the substantive fallout from the scandal will be.
At New York City's United Way, which was expected to raise about $8 million this spring, Ms. Bowman said she is "deeply concerned," but cannot yet gauge the financial impact.
In Bayshore, L.I., Lumex Inc., which raises about $40,000 annually, postponed its April fund-raising drive "until everything blew over," said Lawrence N. Cohen, the chief executive. "I'm a very, very strong supporter, but I didn't want to see United Way hurt. We're waiting until the fall."
Even money pledged last fall is not secure. Usually about 7 percent of employees who promise to contribute renege on their pledges. At least one large company in the New York area, an employer of 15,000, has reported that it will lose 10 times more in canceled pledges than it did last year, Ms. Beene said. She would not identify the company.
At Milford Plaza in Manhattan, in the first year that anyone has ever done so, about 5 percent of the hotel's employees have canceled their pledges, said Xavier Lividini, the general manager. "They don't know where the money is going," he said.
But the real test of support will come in the fall, when most employee-donors are asked to sign up anew.
"A big question is whether or not they'll say, 'I don't want to give my money so someone can ride around in limos,' " said Philip W. Semas, editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy. "The other issue is the coercion issue. In a lot of workplaces around the country, people feel pressured to give. This might give them a good out."
Even if United Way has a bad year or two, however, most who work in and watch the charity network do not think the federation will break apart or lose its power.
"We have a tremendous ability in this country to raise scandals and then erase them," said Eleanor Brilliant, author of a book on the United Way published in 1990 by the Columbia University Press. "The United Way has had bad campaign years before. I don't think the sky is falling in, Chicken Little."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY OF AMERICA; UNITED WAYS OF TRI-STATE UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (97%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY OF AMERICA; UNITED WAYS OF TRI-STATE UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (97%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT ; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS ; EXPENSE ACCOUNTS; FORECASTS FUNDRAISING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); CITIES (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH; ARAMONY, WILLIAM BETTY BEENE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



684 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: FUJIMORI WEAKENS AS TOP AIDES QUIT

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 21

 BODY:
The Government of President Alberto K. Fujimori began to show signs of serious erosion today as officials responsible for vital economic recovery programs and the maintenance of relations with the United States resigned.
At the same time, the Congress, which Mr. Fujimori dissolved by edict 16 days ago, swore in the First Vice President, Maximo San Roman, as constitutional President. The ceremony took place in a building surrounded by the tanks and soldiers of an army that is backing Mr. Fujimori, but the troops made no effort to block the essentially impotent Legislature from installing Mr. San Roman as a "constitutional," but at the moment powerless, President in a largely symbolic act. 
 In a national address late tonight, Mr. Fujimori spelled out a one-year timetable for creating "a new nation." As he spoke, he continued to try to give a sense of legitimacy to his actions and convince the world that he was committed to a return to democracy.
The steps include a national referendum on July 5 seeking approval of his seizure of power, the publication on Aug. 31 of proposed amendments to the Constitution and a referendum on Nov. 8 on the amendments.
 
An End to Privilege
 Elections of a new Parliament, he said, would be held on Feb. 28, 1993, and the new Congress would be sworn in on April 5, one year after he dissolved Congress and assumed greater powers.
Repeatedly pointing to polls that show public support for him at high levels, he said, "My intention obviously is not to end the political class. My intention is to end its privileges. We need to break with the past and establish here and now a new nation."
Mr. Fujimori did not spell out the degree of freedom he would give political opponents during the process, but said he would permit a "national debate on the changes to the Constitution."
Political emotions, which have run high, were further charged by the arrival of delegates from the Organization of American States, who have been sent to try to restore democracy to the country. Mr. Fujimori met with them before his address tonight.
 
'Early Warning Signal'
 As the meaning of the resignations from the President's inner circle began to sink in, one local political commentator noted, "This was not a good day for Fujimori." The man, who insisted on anonymity for fear of retribution, added, "These are early warning signals."
The biggest purely domestic blow was the news that Carlos Bolona, Minister of Economy and Finance, had resigned.
Mr. Bolona spent last week in the United States trying to persuade the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, as well as a group of industrialized countries that had earlier pledged to contribute $1.4 billion in aid to Peru, to continue working with the Fujimori Government.
After Mr. Bolona was reportedly told that new funds would be scarce until Peru restored democracy, he returned and resigned over the weekend, said Government officials who insisted on anonymity. Foreign Minister Augusto Blacker Miller confirmed Mr. Bolona's resignation this afternoon. Government officials also said that a number of Mr. Bolona's colleagues at the Economy Ministry have also resigned.
In addition, the Peruvian Ambassador to the United States, Roberto Maclean, submitted his resignation, as did Peru's superintendent of banks and insurance, Hugo Garcia Salvatecci.
 
A Refusal to Resign
 A different approach was taken by Jorge Chavez, head of the Peruvian Central Bank, who is considered a strong Fujimori loyalist. In an effort to keep the bank independent, he met on Monday with Mr. San Roman. When asked by Mr. Fujimori for his resignation, Mr. Chavez refused.
Most important to Mr. Fujimori would be the loss of Mr. Bolona and Mr. Maclean, both highly regarded internationally and considered the members of the Administration best able to understand the reactions of the United States and Europe.
Mr. Bolona's departure will set back any hopes of reviving the struggling economy soon and is likely to lead to even greater isolation of Peru.
However, the personnel problems do not mean President Fujimori is about to fall. On Monday, all four parts of the Armed Forces signed a statement supporting Mr. Fujimori as the only legitimate head of state. On the same day, State Department officials confirmed that the United States still considered Mr. Fujimori Peru's head of state.
Today, some 30 teachers union members gathered outside the College of Lawyers, shouting, "Democracy, yes. Dictatorship, no," and "Listen O.A.S., this is tyranny," while about 200 obviously sympathetic but less vocal supporters of the dissolved Congress looked on.
For members of Congress meeting for the swearing-in of Mr. San Roman, a businessman from the Andean city of Cuzco, it was perhaps the first day they felt they were gaining on the man they now call a dictator.
Lawmakers said that, although installing Mr. San Roman was mostly ceremonial, it was part of a long-term strategy of slowly gaining strength.
"We're not saying San Roman will have absolute power beginning today," said Senator Enrique Bernales. "We're in a big chess game. And Fujimori is the one losing the pawns."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (80%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (93%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CENSORSHIP; CONSTITUTIONS; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; AMENDMENTS, CONSTITUTIONAL; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (83%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); CENSORSHIP (59%); 

PERSON: FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES); NASH, NATHANIEL C; SAN ROMAN, MAXIMO (VICE PRES) ; BOLONA, CARLOS (MIN); MACLEAN, ROBERTO (AMB); GARCIA SALVATECCI, HUGO ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (97%); CARLOS BOLONA (87%); SAN ROMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



685 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Media;
Clinton Moves to Retouch His Image

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
Hoping to deliver Bill Clinton to the Democratic National Convention with a retouched public image, the Arkansas Governor's staff has devised a two-pronged strategy to counteract the damaging information that has emerged about him so far.
The first part of the strategy is to present the Governor's background in a more flattering light. The second is to project Mr. Clinton as a potential President with a series of high-profile policy speeches, including the economics message he delivered last week in Philadelphia and an environmental address scheduled for today. 
 The aim is to use the months before the general election campaign not just to win primaries but also to bring down the negative ratings that Mr. Clinton receives in public opinion polls. Although he is increasingly being viewed as the presumptive Democratic nominee, his advisers say he cannot squander the months before the national convention in July and thus head into the fall with the same "character" issues still clouding his campaign.
"You have to start to address some of the high negatives between now and the convention," said a Clinton adviser, who would discuss the strategy only on the condition of anonymity.
 
Advice From Outside Experts
 The plan emerged from a series of meetings at which Mr. Clinton's top aides have sought advice from outside experts, including Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council; Samuel Popkin, a professor at the University of California at San Diego, and Carter Eskew, a consultant who is not affiliated with the campaign.
One idea that was discussed and rejected was a suggestion that Mr. Clinton give a reprise of the "Checkers" speech that Richard M. Nixon gave in 1952 in response to charges of financial impropriety. Instead, the campaign has apparently decided to counter the questions that have dogged Mr. Clinton's campaign -- about his financial dealings, his draft status in the Vietnam War and marital infidelity -- more obliquely.
Through media appearances, staged events and new advertising, the Clinton campaign is hoping to redirect voters' attention away from issues that have proved harmful to the Governor and toward issues that may prove more salubrious.
"There's more than one way to answer some things," said James Carville, a top adviser to Mr. Clinton. "What kind of country you want tells people something about who you are."
New television ads that were broadcast last night in Pennsylvania, which will hold its primary on Tuesday, portray Mr. Clinton as a man who grew up under tough circumstances but who has his priorities straight.
"His father died just before he was born," one advertisement says, while a black and white picture of Mr. Clinton's mother, father and grandfather appears on the screen. "And his mother and her family struggled to give him better opportunities, to teach that with hard work, faith and a good education, anything was possible."
In another ad Mr. Clinton faces the camera and says, "Some people say I've taken some hits lately, but nothing like the hits the American people have taken."
"You deserve better," Mr. Clinton continues. "I want to create jobs, invest in education and health care, make the rich pay their fair share, put our people first. That's what really matters."
Mr. Carville said the advertising was an effort to "fill in some important information," and added, "I don't think people have very much of a sense of where he comes from, what kind of struggles he's had to overcome."
The effort to present more flattering details of Mr. Clinton's biography and the attempt to speak in a Presidential pitch represent well-trodden political territory; indeed, the Clinton campaign itself used similar tactics at the outset of the primary season. But since then the campaign has spent most of its time scrambling in reaction to events -- from losses in some primaries to the fallout from Mr. Clinton's playing golf recently at an all-white country club.
Although campaign aides say they still worry about unexpected attacks from Mr. Clinton's last significant Democratic rival, former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, they no longer seem to regard Mr. Brown as a serious threat. Already, Mr. Clinton's media consultant, Frank Greer, is starting to assemble a media team, including some commercial advertising executives, to prepare for the general election campaign.
Aides to Mr. Brown said yesterday that they had no plans to broadcast new attack advertisements in Pennsylvania, or any new ads for that matter. Joe Trippi, Mr. Brown's media adviser, said the campaign planned to broadcast an old advertisement featuring Mother Teresa that was used in the New York campaign.
 
Facing aA Timing Problem
 In its effort to retool Mr. Clinton for the general election, the Governor's staff faces an obvious timing problem: the campaign is trying to shift attention just at the point when many Americans have stopped paying attention to the campaign altogether. Even in those states that have yet to hold their primaries, excitement over the increasingly uncompetitive race is expected to be minimal.
Nevertheless, Clinton advisers note, voters in several large and populous states, including Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey and California, have yet to go to the polls, and if these voters can be persuaded to take another look at Mr. Clinton, they say they will have accomplished something significant.
"Between now and the last primary, we will be reaching 30 percent of the people who will vote in November," Mr. Greer said. "It's a wonderful opportunity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



686 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Recession Leaving State Governments More Efficient

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
Most states will emerge from the shadow of the recession in the next few years, but when they do their governments will probably be smaller operations that are more efficient but provide less assistance to the middle class and the poor, say budget officials across the nation.
"We are about halfway through the tunnel," said Brian M. Roherty, a budget expert, about the states' financial struggles in the recession. "As we come out of the tunnel, what we will see are downsized state governments with smaller work forces, new ways of doing business and new priorities. There isn't enough money any more, so states will have to find long-term solutions and make some grim choices." 
 Mr. Roherty, who is executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, released the organization's annual survey of the states yesterday. The report, "Fiscal Survey of the States," provides the first national look at how states managed their budgets last year, how they are managing them this year, and how governors propose to balance budgets in the next fiscal year, which begins July 1 for most states. The association, a research organization in Washington that is affiliated with the National Governors' Association, has conducted the survey since 1977.
 
Changes Likely in 36 States
 One of the survey's most significant findings is that 36 states have recently created commissions to change and consolidate major state functions. "Reorganization has been a lot more smoke than fire in the past, but now we're really downsizing because the financial situation requires it and we can't be all things to all people anymore," Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois, a Republican, said yesterday in an interview.
Governor Edgar eliminated 2,000 positions last year and has proposed eliminating 1,600 more next year as a way to avoid raising taxes. As of April 1, the state also dropped 40,000 people from its general assistance welfare program.
Connecticut and New York are among the latest states to have private companies advise agencies on using a new management system, popularized by the Japanese, that stresses teamwork and customer satisfaction.
"We're cleaning out the Augean stables of fiscal mismanagement, of bloated bureaucracies and old-line organizations left over from the previous decades," Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut said in an interview yesterday.
 
Reining in Costs
 The recession has forced states to try to rein in sharply rising costs and change bloated, inefficient bureaucracies, in much the way businesses have done since the late 1980's, budget experts say. But it has also meant that states have had to reduce welfare benefits for women and children, eliminate welfare programs for disabled people and raise tuition costs at public colleges and universities.
Indeed, advocates for low-income people caution that social problems will worsen as programs are reduced. "There is going to be more homelessness, more hunger and more despair among a larger proportion of the population," said Henry A. Freedman, executive director of the Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law, a public policy organization in New York.
This year's survey by the budget officers' group gives statistical evidence of the extraordinary difficulties the states have experienced since the recession began in the summer of 1990 and of some that still loom. Despite setting a 15-year record in the combined amount of increases in taxes and cuts in spending for services, 35 states were unable to keep their budgets in balance this year and had to reduce spending by an additional $5.7 billion.
More than half the states report that revenues are falling below projections for this year, and many say that they are having to make larger income tax refunds than expected because so many people lost their jobs last year.
Because of the delay in collecting taxes, most states will not start to benefit from improvements in the economy for 12 to 18 months, Mr. Roherty said. He predicted that the hardest-hit states, including California and those in New England, may not see significant improvement for three or four years because of the wrenching adjustments they must make to cope with weaker economies and expenditures that threaten to outpace revenue.
States in the Middle Atlantic and Great Lakes regions are also in poor shape because they have had high unemployment and low growth in personal income. States in the Southwest, Rocky Mountains and the Plains are faring better because they have seen stronger increases in personal income and in the Southwest and Rocky Mountain states, above average increases in population. States in the Southeast and Far West, apart from California, fall in the middle of the pack.
To balance budgets next year, 31 governors propose increasing revenue by a relatively modest $5.1 billion, with 60 percent of the additional revenue coming from taxes and the rest from fees. Eleven governors also propose reducing aid to local governments; 5 propose reducing welfare benefits; 8 propose reducing or postponing previously granted wage increases, while 23 propose reducing employee benefits.
Every state but Vermont requires a balanced budget by law; 19 governors have proposed balancing budgets without raising taxes or fees next year.
Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, who has laid off 4,700 of the state's 71,300 employees over the last 13 months, is seeking to raise fees by about $40 million. The state Legislature has acted to reduce the sales tax by 1 percent, from 7 to 6 percent. In Connecticut, Mr. Weicker is seeking to increase fees by about $90 million, but plans no tax increases. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, who has laid off 25,000 of the state's 230,600 employees since 1990, proposes to raise fees by $65 million.
"We're continuing to hear bad news from the states because they are not only seeing slower growth in revenues, but they are also continuing to see an explosion in cost for health care, corrections and social programs like welfare," said Ray Scheppach, executive director of the governors' association. He said that these programs have double-digit increases in annual cost.
Budget experts say that the many state reorganization efforts are the silver lining in the cloud of bad news. "The current economic squeeze is creating an opportunity to restructure state government in ways that should have been done a long time ago," Frank J. Mauro, the deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, said in an interview.
Mr. Mauro said that dozens of states, including New York, are adopting a management philosophy advocated by W. Edwards Deming, an American management consultant who gained followers in Japanese companies in the 1950's. His concept includes a special focus on improving customer service, reducing waste by doing things correctly the first time and increasing productivity by encouraging teamwork and permitting decisions to be made at the lowest level possible.

GRAPHIC: Map: "Making Ends Meet" shows how states are coping during the recession and recovery. (Source: National Association of State Budget Officers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;NATIONAL ASSN OF STATE BUDGET OFFICERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NATIONAL ASSN OF STATE BUDGET OFFICERS NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FORECASTS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: EDGAR, JIM (GOV) ; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV); HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; ROHERTY, BRIAN M MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



687 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Serbs Intensify Sarajevo Attacks; 'Pure Terrorism,' Bosnia Charges

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, April 21

 BODY:
Furious gun battles and shelling of Sarajevo's old Muslim-Slav center by Serbian forces erupted anew tonight as truce negotiations mediated by the European Community failed to stem a three-week offensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
"The European Community monitoring mission spent all day attempting to negotiate a cease-fire," a Western diplomat said. "At one point it seemed positive, but it didn't come about. The first thing in the morning, they will try the whole thing all over again." 
 Serbian guerrillas attacked Sarajevo, a city of more than 500,000, at 5 A.M. They fired artillery and machine guns at the city's electric company, at police stations and at the telephone company's main microwave complex.
At least nine mortar shells hit the Sarajevo television station, and Serbian gunmen moved to within 500 yards of the front door. But the station remained on the air throughout the day.
Heavy explosions and the constant rattle of machine-gun fire waned in the late afternoon, producing an eerie silence that lured children back onto neighborhood streets to play. Heavy shelling resumed about 8 P.M.
 
'Attempt to Divide the City'
 "This is a clear attempt to divide the city," a senior official of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency said. "It is pure terrorism."
At least 6 people died and at least 47 were wounded here today, local radio reports said. Ambulances were unable to reach the wounded in many areas because of sniper fire and shell blasts.
The scene in the central part of town was surreal this afternoon, as people walked their dogs and carried home loaves of bread within blocks of heavy gun battles near police stations.
"When they attacked Slovenia, we remained quiet," said a Muslim Slav woman holed up in her high-rise apartment. "And when they made war in Croatia, we told ourselves it would never happen here. Now it has arrived, and we now know how wrong we were."
The Serbian artillery units on the mountainsides above Sarajevo are able to shell the city with immunity because the city's defenders have no comparable weapons with which to strike back.
Elsewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslav jet fighters attacked Croatian militia positions in the towns of Siroki Brijeg, Citluk, Grude and Capljina, local news reports said. Heavy clashes were also reported in Turbe, Derventa and Mostar.
The attack on Sarajevo came a few hours after a meeting ended in Belgrade between Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Ralph R. Johnson and President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia.
An American official, who recquested anonymity said Mr. Johnson delivered "a strong message" regarding responsibility for what was happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly in the Sarajevo area. He said he would evaluate his talks on the basis of whether there was an observable slackening of Serbian support for the gunmen who have overrun Muslim Slav towns in the Drina River area.
After Mr. Johnson's meeting with the Serbian President, which took place Monday night, Mr. Miolsevic's Government issued a statement denying territorial ambitions. "Serbia has no territorial pretentions on others, and from the very start has been for a peaceful and legal solution to the Yugoslav crisis," it said. "Therefore, Serbia cannot accept attempts to achieve political aims by means of an unobjective portrayal of the situation, pressure, and the imposition of one's own will."
But a Western diplomat in Sarajevo said today's attack indicated that Serbian forces intend to occupy as much of Bosnia and Herzegovina as possible before April 29, the deadline set by the European Community to halt the offensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina or risk economic and political isolation.
The chairman of the European Community's conference on Yugoslavia, Lord Carrington, and Foreign Minister Joao de Deus Pinhiero of Portugal are to visit Sarajevo on Thursday.
"They are not coming here to enter into prolonged negotiations," a community diplomat said. "It must be a final message."
United Nations vehicles plied Sarajevo's streets for much of the day. "We have no reason to think that we are the direct targets of attack," a United Nations spokesman said. "We intend to stay here just as long as possible."
The gun battles paraylzed the international effort to aid Bosnia and Herzegovina's growing numbers of refugees.
"It's brought everything to a halt," said Fabrizio Hochschield of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, referring to the distribution of 100 tons of American relief supplies airlifted into Sarajevo over the weekend. "We have stored the stuff for security reasons at the United Nations headquarters, and now we can't get there."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Consulting With Europeans
 WASHINGTON, April 21 (Special to The New York Times) -- The Bush Administration, determined to penalize the Serbian-led Government of Yugoslavia if Serbian forces continue attacks against Bosnia and Herzegovina, worked today with its European allies to coordinate punitive measures.
An Administration official said the United States has laid out a three-stage plan culminating in breaking diplomatic relations with the Government in Belgrade if assaults on Bosnia and Herzegovina do not stop. He said this plan was being coordinated with the 12 nations of the European Community.
Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher of Germany told Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d by telephone Monday that his Government endorsed the Administration plan, including a break in relations with Belgrade if the situation in Bosnia worsened.
A White House official, briefing reporters on the visit here Wednesday of Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal, said President Bush would discuss joint Yugoslav strategy with Mr. Cavaco Silva, whose Government now holds the rotating chairmanship of the European Community. The official spoke of a "strategy of political pressure, isolation and accountability."

GRAPHIC: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing location of Sarajevo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); CROATIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; SERBIA; SARAJEVO (YUGOSLAVIA) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); CROATIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CHILDREN (71%); DOGS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); 

PERSON: SUDETIC, CHUCK; JOHNSON, RALPH R (ASST SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) RALPH R JOHNSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



688 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Currency Changes Hurt 3M

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD, Minn., April 21

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company said today that its profits fell 4 percent in the first three months of the year, as exchange-rate fluctuations depressed its foreign profits.
For the quarter that ended on March 31, the company earned $288 million, or $1.32 a share, compared with $300 million, or $1.37 a share, in the 1991 period. Sales totaled $3.41 billion, up from $3.39 billion. 
 L. D. DeSimone, the chairman and chief executive, said 3M's international business, which accounts for about half of the company's sales, remained firm in the quarter. But changes in the value of the dollar reduced sales by about 2 percent and cut net income by about $15 million, or 7 cents a share, he said.
International unit volume increased 6 percent, matching the growth average for all of last year. Steady growth in Europe, coupled with strong gains in Latin America, made up for a slowing in Japan.
"We expect to benefit from a strong flow of new products, efforts to improve productivity, and from our expectations that the U.S. economy will continue to show improvement," Mr. DeSimone said.
The stock of the company, whose products include coated abrasives and pressure-sensitive tapes, rose $2.25 a share on the New York Stock Exchange today, closing at $95.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (84%); MMM (NYSE) (84%); MMM (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO 3M CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); EUROPE (77%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS CURRENCIES (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: L D DESIMONE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



689 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Earnings
Citicorp, Chemical, Bankers Trust, Wells Fargo and Banc One all reported strong earnings, and their stocks posted solid gains. Citicorp said it earned $183 million, thanks to higher profits in its consumer business and gains on the sale of various investments and subsidiaries. [Page D1.]
Amoco said its net income fell 70.9 percent, providing the first look at what analysts expect to be a series of large profit declines within the oil industry. [D1.] 
 Warner-Lambert, Schering-Plough and Marion Merrell Dow reported strong earnings, sending their stocks up. [D4.]
Time Warner said it turned around to a profit of $3 million from a loss of $50 million in the quarter last year. [D6.]
Knight-Ridder and the Washington Post reported better earnings results. But Tribune Co. posted a lower profit. [D7.]
 
Companies
In its talk of fare cuts, American Airlines has not talked much about the hundreds of routes where its rock-bottom fare actually rose -- sometimes as much as doubling. [D1.]
Development of methods to send data like facsimiles and electronic mail over the existing cellular telephone network will be announced by nine big cellular phone companies and I.B.M. [D1.]
New Line Cinema ended its negotiations to acquire Orion Pictures and revive it. [D6.]
Sears, Roebuck said it would shave an added 4,900 jobs by closing catalogue pick-up counters in 860 stores. [D4.]
Hoffmann-La Roche's AIDS drug, DDC, should be given conditional approval, an F.D.A. panel recommended. [A22.]
20th Century Fox and the director James Cameron signed a five-year deal valued at about $500 million. [C15.]
 
The Economy
After the failure of several big life insurers, regulators and members of Congress are seeking to restrict an increasingly widespread but little-known practice: the transfer of annuities and life and health policies from one company to another. [A1.]
New York City will end the year with a big surplus, the Dinkins administration said. [A1.]
 
International
Olympia & York has reportedly raised nearly $100 million through a bank loan and the sale of its stake in one of Canada's biggest financial services companies. [D1.]
Anticipating a failure of trade talks between President Bush and European Community leaders, American and European officials laid the groundwork for blaming each other. [D2.]
 
Business Technology
The complicated task of linking desktop computers, whether scattered within the same building or dispersed among branch offices, has been tackled by more and more businesses. [D8.]
 
Markets
Stock prices were mixed. The Dow rose 6.94, to 3,343.25. [D10.] Prices of Treasury securities were mixed. [D19.]
Gold futures bounded higher in a performance that left some analysts convinced gold had enough momentum to leave behind recent six-year lows. [D20.] The dollar was mostly higher. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
The callable bond seems to be vanishing from the American investment landscape. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Eastern European trade will be far larger and more diverse than is widely assumed, by one theory, but political friction lies ahead. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Product sampling, that time-honored marketing tool, is back in style. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); MNI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); MCCLATCHY CO (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (55%); HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC (54%); ROCHE AUSTRIA GMBH (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); GOLD MARKETS (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FUTURES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INSURANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); AIRLINES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); AIDS & HIV (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (51%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES CAMERON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



690 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Dr. Howard Sylvester Ellis, an economist of the post-World War II era and professor emeritus of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, died Wednesday at the Rosscare Convalescent Center in Capitola, Calif., near San Jose. He was 93 years old.
His family said he died after a long illness.
Dr. Ellis, a tenured professor at Berkeley for 30 years, was one of the nation's leading experts of his time on monetary theory, exchange controls and international economics. He was an authority on the Marshall Plan, the program to aid European recovery after World War II, and on the economic development of Latin America. 
 Dr. Ellis was a prolific writer with more than 20 books to his credit, including "Economics of Freedom" (Harper & Brothers, 1950), which had an introduction by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. The book was an appraisal of the first years of the Marshall Plan; one of its main conclusions was that the program was highly successful and well worth the effort and expense.
He also edited "Survey of Contemporary Economics," a project that updated the field of economics after the war.
Dr. Ellis was born in Denver and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Iowa. He received master's degrees from the University of Michigan and Harvard University. After studying for a year at the University of Heidelberg he received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1929 and returned to Europe for two years of post-doctoral work at the University of Vienna.
From 1924 to 1938 Dr. Ellis was associated with the University of Michigan, where he became a professor.
He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1938 as Flood Professor of Economics. He retired in 1965 but then spent two more years in charge of a joint project the university was conducting with the Agency for International Development to foster economic growth in Brazil.
In World War II Dr. Ellis was on leave from Berkeley to work in Washington as the assistant director of the Federal Reserve Board's division of research and statistics. In the 1940's he also served two stints as a visiting professor of economics at Columbia University.
He is survived by his wife, the former Hermine Johanna Hoerlesberger; three daughters, Audrey Ellis of Southern California, Dorothy Hammer of Cannon Falls, Minn., and Martha Johnson of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two sisters, Dorothy Johnson of Bridgeport, Conn., and Nell Theil of Evansville, Ind., and six grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); COSTA RICA (73%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); MARSHALL PLAN (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); MARSHALL PLAN (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); COSTA RICA (73%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WORLD WAR II (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DEATHS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); WRITERS (74%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: ELLIS, HOWARD SYLVESTER (DR); SAXON, WOLFGANG HOWARD SYLVESTER ELLIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



691 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Olympia Gets Short-Term Bank Loan

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 21

 BODY:
Olympia & York Developments Ltd. has raised nearly $100 million through a bank loan and the sale of its stake in one of Canada's biggest financial services companies, Toronto and New York financial officials said today.
Olympia & York, the Reichmann brothers' embattled property company, has been scrambling for funds to avoid bankruptcy. 
 "They're not enough, but they do buy time for the negotiating process to go on," Alain Tuchmaier, an analyst for McLean McCarthy Inc., said of the funds raised.
 
A Psychological Boost
 The $30 million loan from its most important bank lenders, including the Royal Bank of Canada and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, is a short-term loan intended to get the company through the next few weeks, when it needs to pay taxes and operating expenses in Canada, several people involved in the talks said.
Even though Olympia had been seeking $85 million, the loan is psychologically important. Until now, banks were believed to be unwilling to provide any of the fresh funds the company says it needs to restructure about $5 billion of its $18.5 billion of debt.
The company has been playing a game of brinksmanship, betting that its banks would come up money rather than precipitate a bankruptcy that could lead to the fire sale of billion of dollars of commercial real estate in New York, London and Toronto.
Olympia & York, whose problems have been caused by the recession, a glut of commercial office space and the drain of cash from its huge Canary Wharf project in London, also raised $64 million in Canadian currency ($54 million United States) from the sale of 7.1 million shares in the Trilon Financial Corporation.
 
A Deal Done Quietly
 The sale, which took place April 10 but has yet to show up on the insider trading reports of the Ontario Securities Commission, was disclosed today by Trilon's president and chief executive, Kenneth R. Clarke. Toronto financial officials later said the buyer, at $9 a share, was the Ontario Teachers Pension Fund.
Trilon, which has $45 billion (Canadian) in assets, holds major interests in insurance, trust companies, investment banking and real estate. It is controlled by one of the other major Canadian family business groups, the Edper enterprise of Edward and Peter Bronfman.
Mr. Clarke disclosed the transaction in responding to reporters' questions at Trilon's annual meeting today. He declined to disclose all the financial details or the buyer and said in an interview it was "a private transaction but obviously of interest to us."
The Reichmanns had held 8.8 million shares, or 11 percent of Trilon. They acquired the shares about 10 years ago, when Trilon bought the Royal Trust Company, then Canada's largest trust company and controlled by the Reichmanns. The Reichmanns still retain about 1.6 million shares in Trilon.
 
'Orderly Liquidation'
 Brian Berner, president of Berner & Company, a Toronto securities firm, described the sale as part of "the orderly liquidation of unnecessary assets" in the Reichmann controlled empire.
Other financial analysts said the Reichmanns had been selling preferred shares of many companies they control and are attempting to sell other assets as well.
The company placed its net equity last week at $5.5 billion. Analysts noted, however, that that was based on the assets' estimated current market value, not on what they would yield in a quick liquidiation.
The only other major company where the Reichmanns and the Bronfmans share an ownership stake is the Trizec Corporation of Calgary, Alberta, which owns 313 income-producing properties, including shopping centers and commercial buildings, chiefly in Canada and the United States. Olympia owns 36 percent of Trizec and Edper 40 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CM (TSX) (84%); CM (NYSE) (84%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD; TRILON FINANCIAL CORP CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); TRILON FINANCIAL CORP (66%); BERNER & CO (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD; TRILON FINANCIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); INSIDER TRADING (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



692 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Big Banks Post Rises In Profits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Citicorp said yesterday that it earned $183 million in the first quarter, thanks to higher profits in its consumer business and to gains on the sale of various investments and subsidiaries. Its stock rose $1.50, to $18.25, in active trading on the earnings news, even though its loan losses remained high.
Several other leading banks -- including Chemical, Bankers Trust, Wells Fargo and Banc One -- reported strong earnings yesterday, sending their stocks up. 
 Chemical Banking said cost savings and other benefits from its merger at the end of last year with the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation had helped its profits rise 44 percent, and its stock gained 87.5 cents, to $34.75. Bankers Trust reported a 9 percent earnings increase and its shares rose $1.50, to $55.125.
Wells Fargo reported a much- stronger-than-expected profit of $119 million. That was down 21.7 percent from a year earlier but contrasted sharply with the $215 million loss the company reported in the fourth quarter of last year. Its stock surged $9.875, to $76.125.
The Banc One Corporation of Columbus, Ohio, which has largely avoided the real estate losses that have plagued other large banking companies reported a record profit of $179 million, up 37.7 percent from a year earlier. Its stock, already traded at a higher level relative to its profits than most banks, gained only 25 cents to close at $43.25.
Following are the details of the banking companies' results:
 
Citicorp
 Citicorp's profit of $183 million, or 37 cents a share, was up 96.8 percent from $93 million, or 17 cents a share, a year earlier before an accounting change. Net income in last year's first quarter was $550 million, or $1.48 a share, after the accounting change.
This year's income remains far below a healthy level for the nation's largest banking company. Indeed, the company would have had a loss, had it not sold nonessential businesses and various investments at a $218 million after-tax profit.
Earnings were also helped by a cut in overhead expenses to $2.36 billion, from $2.50 billion a year earlier. Revenue rose to $3.99 billion, from $3.58 billion a year earlier.
"Citicorp is making progress, but they are clearly not at the end of the line in terms of making themselves an above-average banking company," said Diane B. Glossman, a banking analyst at Salomon Brothers.
She noted that the $260 million profit Citicorp earned in its consumer businesses around the world was up from $161 million a year earlier, but that the company needed to continue with the cost-cutting efforts it started at the end of 1990. Its work force of 85,000, as of March 31, was down 8,500 from the peak in late 1990.
Citicorp's biggest problem remains loan losses. It wrote off $435 million of consumer loans and $568 million of business loans, mostly for real estate in North America and London. The reserve for loan losses, which many analysts say is too low in relation to its loan problems, was increased by $237 million.
John S. Reed, Citicorp's chairman, told shareholders at the annual meeting yesterday that costs of writing off bad loans and setting aside reserves to cover future losses would remain about the same this year as in 1991, when the company wrote off $4.93 billion of loans. But he said losses in the second half of this year should be lower than the first half.
By the end of the year, Mr. Reed said, he expects Citicorp to be earning a profit at a rate that if continued for a year would equal about $1.5 billion. That would be less than Citicorp's best year, 1988, when the bank earned $1.86 billion and its bad-loan write-offs were $1.75 billion.
 
Chemical Banking
 At the Chemical Banking Corporation, the first-quarter profit of $260 million, or $1 a share, was up from $181 million, or 84 cents a share, a year earlier. An increase in the spread between the interest paid for deposits and other funds and the interest earned on loans and investments -- to 3.72 percentage points from 3.07 percentage points a year earlier -- added $173 million to the company's income.
Chemical also benefited from a $113 million increase in fees from trading and other banking activities. Overhead costs were reduced $50 million as a result of its merger, and the company said it was on target for merger-related savings of $225 million by the end of this year and $750 million by 1995. The two bank subsidiaries -- the Chemical Bank and Manufacturers Hanover -- will be merged on June 19.
Chemical's earnings were reduced by the $375 million it provided to the loan-loss reserve, which was up from $279 million a year earlier but down from $450 million in the fourth quarter of 1991.
 
Bankers Trust
 The Bankers Trust New York Corporation earned $175 million, or $2.02 a share, up from $160 million, or $1.85 a share, a year earlier because of strong gains in investment management, corporate finance fees, and profits from its investments in other corporations. Revenues from securities and foreign exchange trading fell 42 percent, to $216 million.
Overhead expenses at Bankers Trust fell by $48 million, or 8 percent, from a year earlier, as bonuses declined, and the company benefited from a previously announced 9 percent reduction in its staff.
 
Wells Fargo
 Wells Fargo & Company's first-quarter profit of $119 million, or $2.09 a share, was down 21.7 percent from $152 million, or $2.86, a year earlier, but contrasted sharply with a $231 million loss in the fourth quarter of 1991.
Weakness in the California economy, particularly in real estate, where Wells Fargo is one of the state's most active lenders, caused a big increase in loans that are badly delinquent. Real estate acquired through foreclosure rose to $2.49 billion at the end of the first quarter from $1.59 billion a year earlier. The company provided a loan-loss reserve of $215 million, down from $700 million in the fourth quarter.
Wells increased the difference between the interest rates it pays and the interest rates it charges to 5.70 percentage points, from 5.06 points a year earlier and 5.22 points in the fourth quarter.
 
Banc One
 The Banc One Corporation earned $179 million, or 86 cents a share, up from $130 million, or 67 cents, a year earlier. Banc One increased the difference between the rates it pays and the rates it charges to 6.82 percentage points, from 6.17 points a year earlier and 5.93 points in the fourth quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); WFC (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (75%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); OHIO, USA (75%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (69%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



693 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
Restaurant's Rebirth: A Breeze Blows in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By Douglas Martin

 BODY:
IT is an eerie experience, to wander through a vast, deserted restaurant where more than 2,000 people once ate at the same time. More than a million people a year are said to have come to F. W. I. L. Lundy Brothers to inhale lobster, steaks and the best biscuits in the whole world.
Then, Irving Lundy, the owner, died in 1977. Sputtering efforts by family members failed to maintain the restaurant at Emmons and Ocean Avenues in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. Whoever was last in charge seems to have just walked away, leaving the place looking as if a neutron bomb exploded sometime around 1980. Only people were obliterated. 
 Owners have come and gone, the dirt has drifted like snow. Glasses still sit on drying racks, bottles of liquor are half full, stuffed fish swim ever grungier walls.
Here is the clam bar where a dozen bivalves commanded $4. There, coral and turquoise-colored chairs are piled to the ceiling. A discarded sign promises "Free Parking for Big Capt. Bob," a clock is forever stopped at 5:27 and dusty light filters through stained glass. With the regularity of a clock ticking, the roof leaks.
"I love it," exuded Peter Romeo, who kept lusting after the Gothic-style lamps. "I'd restore these for free."
Mr. Romeo, now a lighting restoration entrepreneur, is a man who has traveled many highways, including that of a hard-nosed bill collector. But it is in his latest metamorphosis, a super-charged civic volunteer, that he has begun to achieve renown, including congratulatory letters from the Mayor.
First, he brought together a flock of fellow blue-collar craftsmen to help restore the Lefferts Homestead, a 200-year-old house in Prospect Park. Then, he began a still-unrealized campaign to string high-powered lights on the sadly defunct Coney Island parachute jump.
And now, he yearns to restore a grand restaurant he once frequented.
Well, not all of it. Only the outside. And that only for a while.
But the fact is that his small initiative comes when things may be looking up for an institution long threatening to be reborn. Something like a dozen reopenings have been trumpeted, then forgotten. But last month, the Landmarks Preservation Commission ordered that the Spanish Colonial Revival-style building be preserved.
Simultaneously, the owners, one a former Lundy's busboy, have begun a new drive for more than $10 million in bank financing, the key to renovations needed to reopen. City economic development agencies are helping.
But the freshest breeze is the volunteers Mr. Romeo has recruited. By painting bright pictures on panels along the building's walls, they intend to at least put a fresh face on things. When the local students, artists and neighborhood improvers are done, passers-by will glimpse scenes of merry diners instead of boarded-up, graffiti-smeared windows.
It matters little that they are improving someone else's property for free, not when a local landmark that has sunk lower and lower can be made to snap to attention. Maybe even the banks will notice.
Mr. Romeo summoned a grab bag of the volunteers to his bayside apartment a few blocks from Lundy's. Over coffee and cake, they remembered a classier Sheepshead Bay and pledged to make it sparkle again.
"To see Lundy's not open all these years is very painful to me," said Cynthia Myers, an art teacher from Cunningham Junior High School whose class will paint a panel.
David Pasacreta, whose students at William E. Grady Vocational High School will actually construct the panels, said this work would otherwise have cost at least $16,500.
Frank and Jerry Bisogno, two diehard Brooklynites, waxed elegiac over Lundy's. Frank, author of a book about Brooklyn celebrities, told of a police car's being stolen in front of Lundy's, leading to the title of the television sitcom, "Car 54, Where Are You?" A bit incongruously, he said he heard the story from a limousine driver for a Nevada brothel.
Jerry, who is contemplating a run for the State Senate, figures the key to Lundy's rebirth is a big parking garage.
Sal Raio, who repairs transmissions for a living, dropped by with a check for $530 to pay the rent for office space. I. Stephen Miller, president of the Sheepshead Bay Historical Society, told the tangled story of how Irving Lundy's estate was swindled of $10 million.
Carol, Mr. Romeo's wife, recounted how Lundy's heavenly blueberry pie came in a heavy pan you could take home, providing you paid a $5 deposit.
The morning added up to a nice mix of nostalgia and hope in a community where good news has become too rare. Mr. Romeo was having a ball.
"People go to bed, they go to work, they sit on their couch and that's their life," he declared. "This thing takes me in directions I never dreamed of."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Romeo, right, is heading an effort to beautify Lundy's, a restaurant in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, that has been closed since 1980. He spoke with Aryeh First, an artist, in front of the building. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LUNDY'S (RESTAURANT)

ORGANIZATION: LUNDY'S (RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RESTAURANTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS IRVING LUNDY (93%); PETER ROMEO (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



694 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: The Emigres Lend a Hand In Homelands

 BODY:
In the last tumultuous days of World War II, when Soviet troops attacked the fiercely nationalistic town in Ukraine that had nurtured his relatives for generations, Orest Baranyk and his family fled, living in refugee camps before coming to the United States in 1950.
Mr. Baranyk was 6 years old when he arrived, and he grew up in the exile culture that thrived in Chicago, speaking Ukrainian at home. But Ukraine itself remained alien to him, for the Communist Government would not allow him to return for even a brief visit. 
 Now the collapse of the Soviet Union and the independence of Ukraine have given Mr. Baranyk, a 48-year-old architect, the chance to rebuild ties severed so early in life. Though he is an American citizen, he has dedicated himself to the rebuilding of Ukraine by working as an adviser to the fledgling Government in Kiev.
"Ukraine has been struggling for independence for so many centuries," he said. "I've always felt that those people who wound up in the Ukrainian diaspora had an obligation to help it get to that final goal: true independence."
 
Providing Talent, Not Money
 As the nations of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union try to re-create themselves with the collapse of Communism, they are attracting hundreds of Americans and Canadians who either left those lands decades ago or are the descendants of emigrants.
The vast majority are not returning permanently, for their roots are now in North America. But they are going back for short periods to use their language ability and skills in engineering, law, finance and other fields to help governments fashion new economies and new systems of administration.
"They've said to us, 'Don't send your dollars, send us your talents,' " said Gabija M. Petrauskas, a 41-year-old official in the Canadian Government whose parents left Lithuania after World War II. In January she began a two-year stint in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, as an assistant to the country's Prime Minister, Gediminas Vagnorius.
"This is the kind of economic assistance people can provide," said Mrs. Petrauskas, who speaks fluent Lithuanian. "We cannot provide the millions of dollars to set up their economy."
As these countries express interest in Western expertise, organizations like the United Nations and the United States State Department are joining fraternal groups like the American Czechoslovak Society in recruiting advisers.
 
This Aid Comes Cheap
 Nessim Shallon, a senior adviser at the United Nations Development Program, said the bewildering number of problems these countries had faced in the last year had become all the more intractable because their officials were so inexperienced.
Mr. Shallon runs a program called Tokten -- Transfer of Knowledge Through Expatriate Nationals. In the last year it has placed about 60 Western advisers of Polish descent in Poland, and is expanding into other countries in the region. The advisers stay from two weeks to three months.
For the State Department, these programs provide an inexpensive vehicle for sending aid, particularly at a time when foreign aid budgets are coming under growing scrutiny. The countries themselves see the advisers as catalysts who can help jump-start bureaucracies that have grown sluggish and ineffective from years of Communism.
"They were appreciative of the fact that there were people who were concerned about the country where they have their roots," said Mr. Baranyk, who led a team of lawyers that monitored the referendum on independence in Ukraine in December. He plans to return to Ukraine a few times each year to help rebuild the country's buildings and roads.
Lucien N. Nedzi, a former Congressman from Detroit, recalled that when he visited Warsaw for a week last year to advise the new Parliament on how representative bodies work, officials were still using a vote-counting machine that did not distinguish between yes and no votes -- a vestige of Communism.
"The trouble was that they were good politicians, but they had absolutely no experience in parliamentary activity," said Mr. Nedzi, 66, a second-generation Polish-American who speaks Polish.
 
A Charge of Meddling
 Mrs. Petrauskas, who is setting up a program in Lithuania to train civil servants, said the enthusiasm of the officials she advises had often been tinged with anxiety or even resentment. The more they work with her, the more they realize how backward their Government is, she said, adding that she had heard that a few officials have called her "the meddler" behind her back. She said she had realized from her work in Vilnius that she would never be fully accepted there, despite her Lithuanian roots.
Indeed, many of the Westerners working as advisers in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union said their experiences had forced them to re-examine their identities: where do they lie, in the New World or the Old?
"If I say I'm more American, the Hungarians get upset, and vice versa," said Paul G. Teleki, a 54-year-old geologist advising the Ministry of Industry and Trade in Budapest. Now an American citizen, Mr. Teleki fled Hungary in 1956 when the Soviet Army crushed the uprising there. For the last year, he has divided his time between Budapest and his home in Herndon, Va.
"You always have an attraction to your place of birth," he said. "On the other hand, I've spent two-thirds of my life in the United States, so I feel very comfortable and grateful to be here. So I try to be in both places at once."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LITHUANIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; UKRAINE; LITHUANIA; EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LITHUANIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REFUGEES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); IMMIGRATION (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BARANYK, OREST; PETRAUSKAS, GABIJA M MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



695 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Record Pace for U.S. Deficit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
The Federal deficit at the midpoint of the 1992 fiscal year has ballooned to nearly $200 billion, far ahead of last year's record pace, the Government said today.
Deficit spending in March totaled $49.4 billion, bringing the deficit for the first six months of fiscal 1992 to $196.9 billion, 29 percent greater than the six-month imbalance a year earlier. 
 The deficit appears to be on pace to meet the Bush Administration's projection of $399.7 billion by the end of the fiscal year, Sept. 30.
Because of a financing disruption in the savings and loan bailout program, however, many private economists now are projecting a somewhat smaller deficit, although still well ahead of last year's record of $269.5 billion.
Economists said the extensive Federal borrowing, by eating up investors' savings, is keeping mortgage rates and other long-term interest rates relatively high and hindering the economy's recovery from recession.
To stimulate economic growth, the Federal Reserve has pushed short-term interest rates down by about 4 percentage points over the last year and a half. But long-term rates, over which the central bank has little influence, have fallen only about 1.5 percentage points.
"Fiscal realities are an abysmal state of affairs," said Kathleen Stephansen, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. in New York. "The deficit as a percentage of the gross domestic product will be in excess of 6 percent.
"Historically -- before the 1980's -- it's been at 2 percent. That puts tremendous pressure on interest rates," she said.
In March, the deficit was 20 percent higher than the $41.2 billion in March 1991, when the deficit was held down by $12.9 billion in contributions from allies to help pay for the Persian Gulf war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DLJ (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (67%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); RECESSION (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); DESERT STORM (63%); 

PERSON: KATHLEEN STEPHANSEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



696 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Baker Spells Out U.S. Approach: Alliances and 'Democratic Peace'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d spelled out America's approach to foreign policy in the post-cold-war world today, saying it must aim to build a "democratic peace" around the globe, while sharing the burdens of that peace with Washington's allies through "collective engagement."
Speaking to the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, Mr. Baker charged those who advocate isolationist, "America first" patriotism with "avoiding the challenges of our times by pretending they do not exist." 
 He argued that now that the cold war is over, the United States should increasingly conduct its foreign relations as the leader of coalitions, rather than as a lone superpower.
His speech, the text of which was distributed in Washington, appeared to be part of an increasing effort by the Administration to win domestic support for aiding the former Soviet republics, by trying to explain to Americans why that is in their interest and how it connects with broader American foreign policy goals.
 
Help From Prosperous Allies
 "Our idea," said Mr. Baker, "is to replace the dangerous period of the cold war with a democratic peace -- a peace built on the twin pillars of political and economic freedom. By supporting democracy and free markets in Russia and Eurasia, we can extend the 'zone of peace and prosperity' further east across Russia and Eurasia and bring these new states into the democratic community of nations. That is good for American interests and values."
Mr. Baker then went on to put in the best light possible the fact that America alone no longer has the resources -- as it did after World War II with the Marshall Plan -- to help erect that democratic peace. Therefore, it must increasingly rely on world institutions, and broad coalitions, to do together what the United States might once have done alone.
"The community of democratic nations is larger and more vigorous than at the end of World War II," Mr. Baker said. "That is why we plan to build a democratic peace by pursuing a straightforward policy of American leadership called 'collective engagement.' "
"Germany, Italy and Japan are now strong and prosperous allies," he said. "By working with our other allies and the international institutions we created in the aftermath of World War II -- the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund -- we need not go it alone. Instead, we can build a democratic peace together."
 
Global Trust and Power
 Mr. Baker contended that the fact that the United States must now increasingly rely on the help of others to implement its values and many of its interests does not mean that Washington must abdicate its leadership position.
"As the most powerful democracy on earth, we must act the catalyst, driving forward where we can," said Mr. Baker. "As President Bush has said, 'The world trusts us with power. They trust us to do what's right.' Because of this American record we are able today -- if we will -- to work with our partners to share responsibilities and costs, and to advance together on common problems. That's American leadership through collective engagement."
He went on to cite several areas where that policy has already been employed in recent years -- from the Persian Gulf War to Western assistance programs for the former Soviet republics.
"In each case," Mr. Baker said, "we did not have to do it alone, but without us it could not have been done successfully. Despite the doubts and the doubters, the verdict is in. Collective engagement works. To put it simply: We led, we had partners and together we succeeded."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); COLD WAR (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); WORLD WAR II (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (63%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



697 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Health Care the Way It Used to Be;
Dinkins Idea Is Tried and True. Can It Work Here and Now?

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
Melissa Lopez sat in the waiting room of the William F. Ryan Community Health Care Center yesterday, waiting for a pediatrician to examine her feverish niece. She had heard, she said, about the health care plan proposed by Mayor David N. Dinkins on Monday, but she wondered what was new. The Mayor's proposal that each Medicaid patient have a personal doctor sounded to her like the way care is already provided at the Ryan center, where she has been going for nearly five years.
The Dinkins administration's plan to eventually provide every poor person in the city with a family doctor is not new. The concept has been discussed for decades in New York and around the country as the ideal approach to preventive health care. Similarly, the plan, known as managed care, is not untried. Already there are more than a dozen city clinics like the Ryan Center, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, which serve as models for the new clinics proposed by the Mayor. 
 What is new, judging from the details released so far, is the scope of the plan's long-term goals. Most of the managed-care programs that already exist are private, providing care to the relatively small populations of their immediate neighborhoods. The Dinkins plan, in contrast, would be an ambitious attempt by government to coax a large number of Medicaid patients to seek primary care in clinics rather than hospital emergency rooms, in effect returning to the way medical care used to be but has not been for a long time.
 
'Have to Start Somewhere'
 "It's a new bottle, old wine," said Dr. Merle C. Cunningham, medical director of the Sunset Park Family Health Care Center of the Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn, whose clinic assigns doctors for the continuous treatment of Medicaid patients. "This was a great idea in the 60's. It was a great idea in the 70's and in the 80's, and it's still a great idea, just as long as the city does it right."
What it would take to do it right is the subject of much debate. In announcing the program, Cesar Perales, Deputy Mayor for Health and Human Services, said the goal was to provide doctors where there currently are none, giving patients an alternative to the emergency room for their basic medical care.
Initially, he said, three new centers would be built and 17 existing clinics would be converted into full-service 24-hour health centers, at an estimated cost to the city of $20 million. Another $13.9 million would be spent to hire 600 doctors, nurses and other workers for those centers.
Those 20 centers would only be able to meet about 5 percent of the need, Mr. Perales said, but "you have to start somewhere."
The centers would be run like health maintenance organizations and would be paid a flat monthly fee by Medicaid for each patient. Patients who do not qualify for Medicaid would be charged a sliding fee based on their incomes. In exchange for that fee, the clinic would provide all the patient's care, including referrals to specialists when needed.
That approach is known as capitation, or per-head payment. Critics say it encourages doctors to undertreat patients because the fee remains the same regardless of how often a patient comes to the clinic. Supporters say that capitation encourages preventive care, because if a patient becomes sick he will be a greater economic drain on the clinic.
Health care experts described the plan as a start, but only a start, toward better care for the poor. There is concern that the announcement might be only a political move, one in a spate of proclamations of increases in city services as Mr. Dinkins's re-election campaign nears.
"If there's no long-term commitment, the program will die," said Barry L. Liebowitz, president of the Doctors Council, which represents the 3,000 doctors employed by the city. "This can't just be the idea of the month."
Mr. Perales, who calls the proposed plan "my baby," said he regrets that the timing of the announcement came in the middle of "good news week," at City Hall. "The timing is unfortunate for me," he said. "But this has been in the works a long time and it represents a long-term commitment."
 
'A Little Skeptical'
 There is concern, too, that the plan is too ambitious for the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and the Department of Health, which will run the new centers. The city's municipal hospitals, run by the hospitals corporation, are currently overcrowded and financially troubled. Similarly, many Health Department clinics are inefficient and dingy.
"Reading what has been happening with the city hospitals, I feel a little skeptical about the city taking on this new plan," said Dr. Pedro Plamenco, the associate director of adult medicine at Sunset Park.
Specifically, there are questions about whether the city can find enough doctors to staff the clinics. Both the hospitals corporation and the Health Department regularly have problems finding and retaining doctors.
Dr. Liebowitz said the doctors would have to be paid enough to keep them, a figure he put at $100,000 a year. At the Ryan Center, staff doctors are paid between $75,000 and $80,000, said Barbara Minch, the deputy director. Turnover, she said, is "not a problem." Mr. Perales said no salary has been set for the doctors.
Dr. Emilio Carrillo, who resigned as president of the Health and Hospitals Corporation last year and who is now the medical director of the Ryan Center, said it would take more than money to find doctors for the new centers. He said the city would have to rethink the entire relationship between the city hospitals and the private medical centers that staff them.
The medical centers must create more training programs in such primary care specialties as obstetrics, pediatrics and family medicine, Dr. Carrillo said.
Even skeptics agree, however, that when managed-care centers in poor neighborhoods work, they work well.
Both the Ryan Center and the Sunset Park Center are clean, modern places, with comfortable chairs and a cheerful staff. Recent visits found that patients wait longer than they might like but not as long as they would in a local emergency room.
"You do have to wait, but you have to wait everyplace," said Carmen Ortiz, who was at Sunset Park with her 7-month-old daughter, Jennifer.
Ms. Ortiz said she particularly likes that the same doctor sees her daughter at every check-up and that she was even allowed to change doctors when she did not feel comfortable with the first one assigned.
Most patients said that they would prefer to have a private doctor in a small personal office, but that they could not afford that luxury.
"The private doctor was more personal," said Louis Rodriguez, who lost his insurance recently when he lost his job. "Now I have to resort to this. Generally it's not that bad. The care I've seen is O.K."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The William F. Ryan Community Health Care Center in Manhattan serves as a model for the new clinics proposed by Mayor David N. Dinkins. Dr. Pleno Moise examined Megan Edwards, as her mother, Cynthia Stokes, watched. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Health Care: The Clinic Sites" shows centers that will offer continual treatment of Medicaid patients by physicians under Mayor Dinkins' plan. Three of the cneters would be new; 17 would be converted.
 
Bronx:
 
Morrisania Neighborhood Family Care Center, 1225 Gerard Ave.
Highbridge Clinic, 1070 Ogden Ave.
Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center, 234 East 149th St.*
Segundo Ruiz Belvis Diagnostic and Treatment Center, 545 East 142d St.
Tremont District Health Center, 1826 Arthur Ave.
 
Brooklyn:
 
Bushwick District Health Center, 335 Central Ave.
East New York Family Care Center, 2094 Pitkin Ave.
Cumberland Neighborhood Family Care Center, 100 North Portland Ave.
Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center, Graham Avenue Extension Clinic, 760 Broadway.
Woodhull Network, Greenpoint Health Center, 960 Manhattan Ave., and Woodhull Williamsburg Clinic, Williams 151 Maujer St.
 
Queens:
 
Queens Hospital Center, Archer Avenue extension.*
Jamaica District Health Center, 90-37 Parsons Boulevard.
Maspeth Child Health Clinic, 769 Onderdonk Ave.
 
Manhattan:
 
Renaissance Health Care Network, five sites in Harlem, center at 215 West 125th St.
Renaissance Adolescent Health Care Center, no site opened yet.*
Gouverneur Diagnostic and Treatment Center, 227 Madison St.
Judson Health Clinic, 34 Spring St.
Governor Smith Child Health Clinic, 60 Madison St.
Dyckman Child Health Clinic, 175 Nagle Ave.
 
Staten Island:
 
Hylan Boulevard Child Health Clinic, 2979 Hylan Boulevard.
 
(*New center) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: RYAN, WILLLIAM F, COMMUNITY HEALTH CARE CENTER (NYC) MEDICAID (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: RYAN, WILLLIAM F, COMMUNITY HEALTH CARE CENTER (NYC) MEDICAID (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; DOCTORS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); MAYORS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BELKIN, LISA WILLIAM F RYAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



698 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Bank Yields Are Lower For Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on bank money-market accounts and certificates of deposit were down for the week that ends today, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, but the decline was modest compared with that of a week ago.
New York rates were flat, analysts said, compared with yields offered at 20 large commercial banks nationally. Robert K. Heady, publisher of the interest-rate publication, noted the mixed signals but added that the fair-sized cut in yields at commercial banks outside New York might have resulted from the interpretation of remarks last week by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. 
 Mr. Greenspan had said he was upbeat about the economy's growth, but bankers seem to feel there is room for further Fed easing, which could filter down and get more banks to lower their prime rates.
 
 
Bill Yields Move Up
 While bank yields may have backed down, the Treasury's weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills resulted in higher yields. A three-month bill was up 6 basis points, to 3.69 percent, and a six-month bill rose 13 basis points, to 3.86 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 The closely watched auction is sometimes a harbinger of what many banks eventually pay customers.
Mr. Heady said the climate was such that he would not be surprised to see bank rates decline again despite the low levels of recent months.
Yields at New York-area banks slipped only slightly compared with the drops last week. The average yield on a money-market account was down 2 basis points, to 3.55 percent, while a three-month certificate remained unchanged at 3.61 percent. For a six-month certificate, the yield was off a basis point, to 3.75 percent.
 
 
Savings Banks Cut More
 Commercial banks offered money-market accounts with an average rate of 3.28 percent, down 2 basis points from a week earlier. Three- and six-month C.D.'s were unchanged at 3.41 percent and 3.50 percent, respectively.
 At savings banks, the yield cuts were a little meatier, with money market accounts down 4 basis points, to 3.81 percent, and three- and six-month certificates off 2 basis points, to 3.81 percent and 4.01 percent, respectively.
The biggest changes in yields among New York-area banks took place at Crossland Savings, which cut its money-market rate by 20 basis points, to 3.75 percent, and at Marine Midland, which increased its three-month certificate by 15 basis points, to 3.30 percent. Greater New York Savings Bank cut the yield on its six-month certificiate by 10 basis points, to 3.90 percent.
For 20 large banks outside the New York area, yields fell a little further, with the average money market rate down 7 basis points, to 3.45 percent, and a six-month C.D. rate down 8 basis points, to 3.79 percent.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, April 22,1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.56	3.36	3.41	Bank of N.Y.	3.30	3.35	3.41	Bank of Tokyo Trust	3.10	3.21	3.34	Chase Manhattan	3.15	3.35	3.41	Chemical	2.80	3.15	3.19	Citibank	3.10	3.10	3.15	Conn. Nat'l Bank	3.56	3.56	3.67	EAB	3.15	3.35	3.41	Fleet Bank	4.00	3.55	3.65	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.25	3.80	4.00	Marine Midland	3.09	3.30	3.35	Manufacturers Hanover	2.80	3.15	3.19	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	3.56	3.90	4.00	Nat'l Westminster	3.25	3.41	3.51	Republic Nat'l	3.56	3.67	3.82	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	American Savings	4.15	3.70	3.90	Anchor Savings	3.80	3.82	4.00	Apple Bank Savings	3.82	3.72	4.00	Astoria Fed Savings	3.56	3.82	3.93	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	4.00	4.30	4.45	Crossland Savings	3.75	3.65	3.99	Dime Savings Bank	3.60	3.80	4.00	Emigrant Savings	3.50	3.60	4.00	First Nationwide	4.00	3.75	3.80	Greater NY Savings	3.75	3.70	3.90	Green Point Savings	3.95	N.O.	4.00	Home Savings Amer	3.92	3.82	4.03	Howard Savings (N.J.)	3.80	3.90	4.15	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	4.08	4.15	4.25	People's Bank (Conn.)	3.51	3.61	3.72	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	3.71	0.00	3.82	0.00	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	3.45	0.00	3.75	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	3.79	-0.21	4.38	-0.21	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.60	+0.10	3.75	0.00	First Bank (Minnesota)	3.25	-0.05	3.65	-0.15	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.04	0.00	3.61	-0.15	First National (Chicago)	3.40	0.00	3.72	0.00	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	3.50	-0.10	3.60	-0.15	Fleet Bank (Boston)	3.71	0.00	3.82	-0.26	Maryland Natl	3.60	-0.10	3.95	-0.05	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.56	-0.26	4.00	+0.05	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	3.28	0.00	4.00	0.00	NationsBank (Atlanta)	3.25	-0.36	4.01	-0.05	National Bank (Detroit)	3.66	0.00	3.60	0.00	NCNB Tampa	3.25	-0.25	3.70	-0.25	Security Pacific (L.A.)	3.55	-0.16	3.60	-0.15	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.25	0.00	3.65	-0.15	Texas Commerce (Houston)	3.04	0.00	3.82	0.20	Union Bank (S.F.)	3.56	-0.05	3.72	-0.05	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	3.56	0.00	3.60	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)

Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRTR (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: BANK RATE MONITOR GREATER NEW YORK SAVINGS BANK (50%); NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK RATE MONITOR NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); PRIME RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



699 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Pessimism and Bitterness on Eve of Trade Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
Anticipating a failure of trade talks on Wednesday between President Bush and European Community leaders, American and European officials laid the groundwork today for blaming each other.
Both sides insisted that further concessions were out of the question while adding that they were eager to negotiate if the other side made a new offer. But in private, trade officials were gloomy about the likelihood of fresh offers and described an especially poisonous atmosphere on the eve of the talks. 
 At stake is the five-year-old effort to expand international free trade rules to include not only most manufactured goods, but also agriculture and service industries like investment banking and accounting. A report released in Paris today said that success in the 108-nation talks to broaden the rules, known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, would raise annual world economic output by $195 billion within a decade.
 
Service Industries vs. Agriculture
 But European officials said today that they saw little flexibility on the part of American officials. They stepped up their criticism of the United States' reluctance to apply free trade rules to its aviation, maritime and long-distance telephone service industries.
A senior Bush Administration official said that the burden was on the European Community to change its stand, and that there had been "no hints" of a fresh offer from the community to limit government assistance to farmers. The official said divisions among European countries were blocking progress.
Senior Administration officials said less progress had been made on the issue than previously reported. Hopes for an agreement in global trade talks rose slightly in late March when European officials responded enthusiastically to an offer from President Bush to exempt some subsidies from cuts.
But a senior official told reporters at the White House today that European officials had had several difficulties with the American offer.
Another senior Administration official said the two sides could not agree on the most basic issues of what subsidies to exempt and for how long. The United States wants exemptions to be temporary and limited to subsidies that have no effect on production, like payments to farmers who retire or let their land lie fallow, he said. The European Community wants the exemptions to be permanent and embrace many more subsidies.
 
European Disputes U.S. Version
 A European official said the Americans were playing down the level of agreement and were wrong to attribute the stalemate to a division among European Community members. "The question is not confusion, it's that our position is not acceptable to the U.S.," the official said.
The White House and the European Community obliged their officials to speak on condition of anonymity today, as neither side wanted to commit itself publicly to any position on the eve of the talks. Conducting the talks on the European side will be Jacques Delors, the president of the European Community, and Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal, whose country currently holds the Community's presidency.
While a breakthrough to restart the GATT talks seems unlikely, officials on both sides tried to figure out whether some cosmetic bargains could take its place. But the White House appears reluctant to step in and force a deal at the risk of antagonizing American farm groups, Administration officials said.
A failure of Wednesday's trade meeting would make it unlikely, although not impossible, that a GATT agreement would be reached this year, trade officials said. The Presidential election campaign could be a complicating factor, although a senior official at the White House said President Bush would not allow the elections to slow negotiations.
Japan, which has resisted allowing rice imports as part of a trade agreement, has also been trying to deflect blame for a failure of the 108-nation GATT talks. Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe sent a letter to Washington and Brussels earlier this month urging the United States and the European Community to resume stalled negotiations on tariff reductions and the opening of service industry markets even as they try to settle their differences on agriculture.
Remarks by some American officials today signaled a toxic atmosphere. One senior Administration official accused the European Community of having waged a campaign of press leaks to raise expectations for the talks.
But even though European officials made optimistic comments last month, the European Community's spokesman in Brussels began warning more than a week ago that Wednesday's talks were unlikely to result in a breakthrough.
Not even on the agenda is a draft accord struck on March 31 by American and European negotiators to limit government subsidies to the commercial aircraft industry. Talks have since reopened on the exact level of some subsidies, and the GATT talks have been infected by recriminations over who is backing away from the original deal on aircraft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY SERVICE INDUSTRIES LTD (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ANIBAL CAVACO SILVA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



700 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Payoffs for Lotto Winners

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 21

 BODY:
An unemployed aircraft mechanic and a telephone company technician who had declared bankruptcy each claimed checks today for $440,523, the first installment of their share of a record-setting $44.4 million Pick-6 Lotto jackpot.
Derrick Webb of Newark and David N. Demarest of Woodbridge held two of the four tickets sold for Monday's drawing with the winning numbers of 16, 21, 23, 26, 31 and 37. 
 Each winner will receive nearly $11.1 million over 20 years before taxes.
One ticket is being verified and the holder of the other has not yet come forward, said Frank Pelly, the lottery executive director. Those tickets were sold in Passaic and Essex Counties.
Mr. Webb, 33 years old, has been unemployed for 10 months. An 11-year member of the Air Force Reerve, he had been an aircraft mechanic at McGuire Air Force Base and a bus driver for N.J. Transit. "This is more money than I've ever thought about having in a lifetime," he said.
 
To Pay Off Debts
 Mr. Demarest, 51, said he might consider early retirement from his job as a communications technician with New Jersey Bell. He said he would use part of his winnings to pay off debts that pushed him into personal bankruptcy last year.
More than 25.7 million tickets were sold for Monday's drawing, Mr. Pelly said. Total sales for the seven drawings that led to the Monday jackpot were $67.6 million, sending more than $28.4 million to the fund for education and state institutions.
The $44.4 million jackpot broke the previous mark set on Jan. 30, when the prize of $30.8 million went to three players. The $16.8 million in Pick-6 sales on Monday was also a record.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NJ TRANSIT (56%); US AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES LOTTERIES (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIR FORCES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: WEBB, DERRICK; DEMAREST, DAVID N FRANK PELLY (78%); DAVID N DEMAREST (78%); DERRICK WEBB (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



701 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Finish Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, as dealers and retail accounts responded to the big selloff on Monday by buying short- to intermediate-term note issues. Bond prices, however, remained under pressure.
Even though all major financial markets were open again after the long Easter holiday break and the Chicago Board of Trade was fully operational for the first time since last week's flood, market participants said the pace of business was only marginally more active than the lethargically slow pace of the last few sessions. 
 "Things were a little busier, but not much more," said Raymond W. Stone, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J. "It still seems pretty slow."
Most of the session's focus was on auctions today and tomorrow of new two-year and five-year Treasury notes. Despite the usual anxiety that accompanies big debt sales, traders said that at current yield levels demand for the securities will probably be quite good.
 
Note Sales This Week
 The two-year notes to be sold today were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 5.44 percent. And the five-year notes to be auctioned on Thursday were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 6.86 percent.
American banks, who have been big buyers of two-year and five-year securities for a year, were urged by John Robson, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, to shift their focus and make loans that would stimulate the sluggish economy.
Speaking in Washington, Mr. Robson also said the Federal Reserve Board should be more concerned with restimulating the economy than with fighting inflation.
Mr. Robson's comments were seen as highly political and had little or no effect on prices in the credit markets. But some credit market analysts said that money managers did not take as benign a view on inflation as the Treasury.
"Our clients are beginning to get concerned about inflation," said Mitchell Held, chief financial economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. "We are getting questions from them because of the seemingly inexplicable half-point rise in consumer prices last month, and Alan Greenspan's suggestion that 2 percent growth is not enough."
 
Fear Termed Overblown
 Mr. Held added that in his view the fears were overblown.
"The main determinant of inflation is labor costs, and wages are under control," he said. "I'm not saying the market can't continue to trade off on these fears, but ultimately they will be proven wrong."
Inflation fears may have had something to do with the dip in bond prices yesterday, but so too did a report on Market News Service.
During the afternoon, Market News reported that Argentina would probably buy zero-coupon Treasury bonds directly from the Treasury to collateralize Argentine Government securities to be swapped for commercial bank loans in a coming debt restructuring.
For weeks, there has been speculation that the Argentines might buy the securities in the secondary market. Such purchases, which the speculation put as high as $30 billion, would sharply depress bond yields.
 
In the Secondary Market
 In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 9923/32 , down 2/32 , to yield 8.02 percent, compared with 8.01 percent late Monday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 9921/32 late yesterday, up an eighth of a point, to yield 7.55 percent. And the 6 7/8 percent five-year notes were offered at 1002/32 , up 3/32 , to yield 6.85 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 3.68 percent, up 1 basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged on the day, at a late offered rate of 3.84 percent.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the Province of New Brunswick offered $200 million worth of 30-year noncallable debentures through an underwriting group led by the First Boston Corporation.
The 8 3/4 percent securities were priced at $99.703 to yield 8.778 percent, 77 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and AA-by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In its initial venture into the open market, Harvard University offered $115 million worth of 15-year securities through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The 8 1/8 percent notes were priced at $99.473 to yield 8.186 percent, 65 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated AAA by both Moody's and by Standard & Poor's.
New-issue activity was exceptionally heavy in the tax-exempt municipal securities market, as roughly $3 billion worth of new securities were priced.
Despite the heavy issuance, traders in the secondary market for tax-exempt bonds said that prices of most widely quoted issues rose by about 1/8 point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rreasury Yield Curve" shows yileds of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CME GROUP INC (72%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); EASTER SEASON (57%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



702 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
For Swissair, Modernism On the L.I.E.

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
RENOWNED for his crisp, elegantly detailed modernist compositions -- and best known today for his work on the Getty Center arts complex in Los Angeles -- Richard Meier is not an architect one would instantly associate with a building along the Long Island Expressway.
But Swissair wanted a structure for its North American headquarters that would convey a sense of meticulousness and corporate responsibility. So the Zurich-based airline chose Richard Meier & Partners as architects of the building near Exit 49 in Melville, L.I., the design of which is to be formally introduced today. 
 Mr. Meier "has a style which is different than what you find on Long Island," said Peter Luethi, general manager of the airline's North American organization. "But at Swissair, we consider ourselves a little bit different than the rest of the airlines.
"One could look at many buildings that are available in Long Island," Mr. Luethi added, "but we felt that we wanted to set our own tone."
The project, which is scheduled to be finished in November 1993, will cost about $20 million, including land acquisition and construction.
Mr. Meier, who practices in New York and won the 1984 Pritzker Architecture Prize, one of the highest honors in the profession, is the first to acknowledge the seeming incongruity of his presence on the L.I.E. But he is just as quick to note that the architectural environment along the expressway has been changing.
"For a long time, what one saw there were back-of-the-town-type sites," he said in an interview yesterday. "But I think people realized that there's such a high visibility on the expressway that the quality of buildings has improved immensely.
"That's probably why Swissair chose us," Mr. Meier continued, "because they realized that it was a site that many people pass by."
A push for distinctive architecture along the expressway has been led by the Spector Group, which is based in North Hills, L.I., but also has offices in Manhattan and Brussels. Among its projects have been the Long Island Financial Center in Huntington, a four-building complex; two office buildings in Jericho, and the Computer Associates headquarters in Islandia.
"Even through the mid-1980's, most clients on the island were not trying to create an image building," said Michael Mannetta, a partner in the Spector firm and its director of design.
In recent years, however, he said that developers had come to recognize that "they were paying prime dollars to have locations on the expressway and the extra investment had to be justified.
"When you have hundreds of thousands of people passing by on a daily basis," Mr. Mannetta said, "you're paying for one of the biggest billboards possible."
Mr. Meier, too, used the word "billboard" to describe one of the functions of the Swissair project, although its dignity and restraint give new meaning to that word.
"The clean cut and detailed layout of the building from the outside certainly expresses the seriousness of us as a company and us as an airline," Mr. Luethi said.
The Swissair building, which sits on a five-acre site, is to have 58,000 square feet on three levels. The all-white structure will be clad either in painted aluminum or porcelain-enameled steel.
The principal facade of the new headquarters, facing south, will be 200 feet long. It will present a kind of screen to the expressway, a practical measure to cut down on the noise that reaches the offices inside. Narrow horizontal window slits will pierce this wall and through these openings, beams will project at regular intervals.
Several other distinctive features are meant to break up the mass of the facade, including a cylindrical, two-story conference center that will jut out from the east end and a fire-stair and elevator tower at the west end.
The south side of the building will have a loggia opening on to a sunken court, which will bring light and a view of greenery into what otherwise would be cellar space. Daylight will also pour into the building from skylights.
There will be curtain glass walls on the north and east sides, with a service core on the west side. In time, the structure can be expanded northward by an additional 20,000 square feet.
"It's a very straightforward, economical building," the architect said, "but there will be a quality of light, openness and spaciousness that will give people a happy working environment."
And Mr. Luethi said that made business sense. "If employment conditions are pleasant, it has a direct effect on the customer," he said.
Some 220 employees will work at Melville, about 20 percent of whom are now at the airline offices in the Swiss Center, 608 Fifth Avenue, at 49th Street, in Manhattan. The other 80 percent will come from Swissair's administration building at John F. Kennedy International Airport.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A model of Swissair's new North American headquarters building in Melville, N.Y., designed by Richard Meier & Partners. The view is looking north, from the Long Island Expressway. (Jock Pottle/Esto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR; MEIER, RICHARD, & PARTNERS CA INC (52%); SPECTOR GROUP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISSAIR; MEIER, RICHARD, & PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MELVILLE (NY) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



703 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Prices Climb Sharply, Rising From Six-Year Lows

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Gold futures prices bounded higher yesterday in a performance that left some analysts convinced the metal had enough upward momentum to leave behind recent six-year lows.
Silver futures also rallied on New York's Commodity Exchange. 
 Gold for April delivery rose $4.20, to $341.10 an ounce, in New York, its strongest one-day gain since Feb. 27. April silver rose 2.8 cents, to $3.991 an ounce.
Analysts said the rally began overnight when Middle Eastern speculators who sold gold several weeks ago began buying it back on overseas markets.
"They finally gave up waiting for the worst predictions" to come true that gold would drop to $320, said George Milling-Stanley, precious metals analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. in New York.
The New York market opened about $1 higher and steadily rose as the rally drew in commodity funds and additional Middle Eastern buying, he said.
Analysts traced gold's turnaround to the market's inability in recent days to break below $336 an ounce. On Monday, for example, the spot April contract dropped to $336.30 but bounced back to finish the day at $336.90.
"I think we may have hit bottom," said Peter Cardillo, research director with Westfalia Investments Inc. in New York.
Gold was trading near $370 an ounce last July. It weakened in response to low inflation, which removes an incentive to invest in gold, and heavy sales of gold by Russia and other former Soviet republics to gain hard currency.
Energy futures rose modestly on the New York Mercantile Exchange ahead of a weekly report from the American Petroleum Institute that showed unexpected increases last week in United States stocks of crude oil, gasoline and petroleum distillates.
Crude oil for May delivery rose 1 cent, to $20.25 a barrel; May heating oil rose 0.69 cent, to 57.36 cents a gallon; May unleaded gasoline climbed 0.70 cent, to 62.48 cents a gallon; May natural gas rose 5.1 cents, to $1.468 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Most livestock and meat futures retreated on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as worries about wintry conditions in the Midwest and eastern Plains faded. Traders had feared the storm would delay hog marketings.
Live cattle for April delivery fell 0.15 cent, to 77.57 cents a pound; April feeder cattle slipped 0.10 cent, to 79.17 cents a pound; April live hogs fell 0.22 cent, to 43.55 cents a pound; May frozen pork bellies dropped 0.70 cent, to 34.32 cents a pound.
Soybean futures rose moderately on the Chicago Board of Trade, which was fully operational for the first time since last week's flooding in Chicago. Soybeans gained on speculative buying in the absence of selling pressure from Brazil, the world's second-largest soybean producer.
The grain markets ended mixed with near-term deliveries higher and deferred deliveries mostly lower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); MIDWEST USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES FUTURES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (93%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GASOLINE (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); SPOT MARKET (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PORK (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); CURRENCIES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (66%); HOG & PIG FARMING (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (62%); FROZEN FOODS (61%); SOYBEAN FARMING (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



704 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Mixed Results Posted by 3 Newspaper Companies

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Two newspaper publishing companies reported better earnings results yesterday than they had in the comparable 1991 quarter, when news-gathering costs were raised by coverage of the Persian Gulf war and advertising was reduced by the recession.
Knight-Ridder Inc. posted a 58 percent increase in first-quarter earnings and the Washington Post Company reported it had returned to profitability. However, the Tribune Company, which had a loss in its newsprint business, reported a 27 percent profit decline. 
 Lower newsprint prices this year have helped newspapers that buy most of the paper they use but hurt companies with newsprint manufacturing investments.
Following are details of the companies' results:
 
Knight-Ridder
 The Miami-based Knight-Ridder media company earned $25 million, or 46 cents a share, in the January-March period, up from $15.8 million, or 32 cents a share, in the 1991 quarter.
Revenue in the quarter edged up 1.8 percent, to $555.4 million, from $545.4 million in 1991.
The newspaper division, which produces 29 dailies, earned $54.4 million, up 20 percent from $45.4 million in the first quarter last year.
"We began to see faint but distinct signs of improvement in newspaper advertising revenue during the quarter," said Robert Singleton, the company's chief financial officer .
Classified advertising revenue was down 3.6 percent in January but up 4.8 percent in March -- the company's best performance since September 1990. Revenues from help-wanted ads were down 11 percent in January but up 9.4 percent in March.
But Mr. Singleton attributed the improvement primarily to a two-tenths of 1 percent decrease in total operating costs, including a 15.3 percent drop in the cost of newsprint, ink and supplements.
 
Tribune Co.
 The publisher of the Chicago Tribune earned $15.4 million, or 17 cents a share, for the first three months of this year, down from $21.1 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue edged up to $471.4 million from $470.1 million.
The earnings decline was attributed to a $14.7 million loss in its newsprint manufacturing business, which made a profit of $4.3 million a year earlier.
Newspaper publishing profits rose 12 percent in the latest quarter and broadcasting and entertainment profits climbed 55 percent.
Tribune publishes seven daily newspapers, operates six television and four radio stations, owns the Chicago Cubs baseball team, produces and syndicates information and entertainment, and manufactures newsprint.
 
Washington Post
 The Washington-based media company earned $19.7 million, or $1.66 a share, in the first quarter in contrast to a loss of $35.4 million in 1991.
The 1991 results included a one-time charge of $47.9 million, or $4.04 a share, for an accounting change.
Revenue for the quarter rose 3.8 percent to $329.1 million, from $317.1 million in 1991.
"Although still weak, the advertising environment showed some improvement when compared to the first quarter of 1991, which included the effects of the Persian Gulf war," the company said. "This sluggish rebound in advertising, coupled with substantially lower newsprint costs, were the major reasons for improved operating results in the first quarter."
Revenue in the newspaper division rose 2 percent from last year. Advertising volume at The Washington Post was off 2.8 percent, and the newspaper's daily circulation was flat.
Revenue for Newsweek magazine was up 9 percent, while the broadcast division showed a 2 percent gain, and the cable television operation showed an 8 percent rise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (90%); MNI (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: KNIGHT-RIDDER INC; TRIBUNE CO; WASHINGTON POST WASHINGTON POST CO (90%); MCCLATCHY CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHT-RIDDER INC; TRIBUNE CO; WASHINGTON POST

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); PAPER MILLS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); BASEBALL (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: ROBERT SINGLETON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



705 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Profits Rise At 3 Drug Companies

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Three leading pharmaceutical companies, the Warner-Lambert Company, the Schering-Plough Corporation and Marion Merrell Dow Inc., reported strong first-quarter earnings yesterday, sending their stocks up.
Earnings at Warner-Lambert rose nearly fivefold, in large part because of an accounting change, and its stock rose 75 cents, to $62.375. Schering-Plough's net income rose 11.6 percent and the stock gained $1.75 to close at $54.625, and Marion Merrell's net income climbed 22.3 percent, sending its stock up 25 cents, to $34.75. 
 At Warner Lambert and Schering-Plough, pharmaceutical sales exceeded analysts' estimates, but consumer product sales were below expectations. Marion Merrell's sales rose by 21 percent in the quarter, led by the company's anti-allergy drug, Seldane.
Following are the details of the companies' results:
 
Warner-Lambert
 Profits increased to $163.6 million, or $1.22 a share, from $33.5 million, or 25 cents a share, a year earlier, when earnings reflected an after-tax charge of $106 million, or 79 cents a share, because of the adoption of new standards for post-retirement benefits other than pensions. Sales rose 7.4 percent, to $1.31 billion from $1.22 billion.
Warner-Lambert, based in Morris Plains, N.J., said its worldwide consumer sales rose 1 percent but American operations were hurt by a sluggish economy and "sales force realignments." Its brands inlcude Lubriderm skin care products, Tetra pet care products, Listerine antiseptic mouthwash, Rolaids antacid, and Schick razors and blades.
In the pharmaceuticals sector, sales rose 19 percent, helped by a 28 percent surge in sales of Lopid, an anticholesterol drug, to $142 million. The company's other pharmaceuticals include the anticonvulsant Dilantin, the cardiovascular drugs Accupril and Dilzem, and the analgesic Ponstel.
Warner-Lambert's sales growth is likely to slow in January 1993 when Lopid's patent expires, said Robert Hodgson, an analyst at Cowen & Company.
 
Schering-Plough
 Schering-Plough, based in Madison, N.J., reported first-quarter net income rose to $193.3 million, or 96 cents a share, from $173.2 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier on an 8 percent rise in sales, to $1.02 billion from $949.3 million.
In the United States, pharmaceutical sales increased 12 percent, benefiting from higher sales of the asthma products Proventil and Vanceril, and Eulexin, a therapy for advanced prostate cancer. Sales of the company's health-care products declined 7 percent, in part because of lower sales of Gyne-Lotrimin, a vaginal antifungal sold over the counter.
International sales rose 14 percent, led by Intron A, an anti-cancer and anti-viral product, and Claritin, a non-sedating antihistamine. Sales of Losec, an anti-ulcer drug, were also high.
"Future earnings growth at Schering-Plough depends on approval of Claritin and Leucomax, a colony stimulating factor for white blood cells, in the U.S.," said James Keeney, an analyst at Mabon Securities. Food and Drug Administration approval of these two products is expected in 1993, he added.
 
Marion Merrell Dow
 Marion Merrell Dow, based in Kansas City, Mo., said first-quarter net income increased to $170 million, or 60 cents a share, from $139 million, or 49 cents, while sales rose to $779 million from $644 million.
Seldane anti-allergy products continued to lead as sales reached $206 million in the first quarter, up 30 percent from a year earlier. The Cardizem group of cardiovascular products registered an 18 percent rise in first-quarter sales to $233 million.
Sales of Carafate anti-ulcer medication declined 14 percent, to $47 million in the first quarter, reflecting wholesale buying patterns.
"Our strategy is to firmly establish these line extensions of key Marion Merrell Dow franchises, while developing other new drugs for the mid-1990's and beyond," said Fred Lyons Jr., the company's president and chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%); COWN (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WARNER-LAMBERT CO; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP; MARION MERRELL DOW INC MERCK & CO INC (96%); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (94%); MARION MERRELL DOW INC (93%); COWEN GROUP INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARNER-LAMBERT CO; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP; MARION MERRELL DOW INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (89%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (89%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (75%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); ASTHMA (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (71%); SALES FORCE (70%); PROSTATE DISEASE (70%); TOILETRIES MFG (69%); HEALTH CARE (68%); ANTIVIRALS (68%); ALLERGIES (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (63%); MEN'S HEALTH (60%); VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (60%); PATENTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



706 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Closes Mostly Higher In Uneventful Trading Day

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly higher yesterday in uneventful trading on world currency markets.
Trading was quiet as dealers in Europe returned from a four-day Easter holiday. Analysts said the dollar had held to a relatively narrow range throughout the session, with little news to move the market. 
 But sentiment toward the dollar remained cautiously bullish. "There is a general perception that things are getting better in the economy," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J.
Firmer evidence of the recovery is expected tomorrow, when the Government will report on durable goods orders for March. "People are looking forward to a good report," Mr. Donney said. "Orders are expected to show a 1 percent jump."
Traders are reluctant to test the dollar's highs until they have more concrete proof that a recovery is under way.
In Tokyo the dollar rose 0.25 yen, to a closing 134.47 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at 134.20 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 134.25 yen, unchanged from Monday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7495, from $1.7477 late Thursday. In New York it cost $1.7500 to buy one pound, more expensive than Monday's $1.7495.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.6695 German marks, up from 1.6655; 1.5460 Swiss francs, up from 1.5385; 5.6395 French francs, up from 5.6270; 1,253.50 Italian lire, up from 1,251.00, and 1.1823 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1797.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.6685 German marks, up from 1.6665; 1.5460 Swiss francs, up from 1.5420; 5.6380 French francs, up from 5.6320; 1.8780 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8760; 1,253.00 Italian lire, up from 1,252.50, and 1.1809 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1822.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); JAPAN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); 

PERSON: RANDOLPH DONNEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



707 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Unisys Posts A Profit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BLUE BELL, Pa., April 21

 BODY:
The Unisys Corporation, the long-troubled computer company, reported a better-than-expected profit today for the first quarter, in contrast to a large loss a year ago.
It was the second consecutive strong quarter for the company, the nation's third-largest computer maker. Last year Unisys closed plants and cut 10,000 employees to end its losses. 
 "The results are a clear indication that our turnaround actions and product and marketing programs are on track," James A. Unruh, the Unisys chairman and chief executive, said.
Unisys said it earned $48.3 million, or 11 cents a share, in the first three months this year, in contrast to a loss of $98.2 million a year earlier.
Revenue was down slightly, to $2.01 billion from $2.06 billion. But last year's figure included $62 million from the company's Timeplex subsidiary, which Unisys sold effective June 30, 1991.
The company said it reduced debt by about $100 million and generated $121 million in cash flow from operations.
Operating expenses were at their lowest quarterly level in six years and down 17 percent from the 1991 quarter. Interest expense dropped 24 percent because of less borrowing and lower rates.
The company reported growth in orders, especially in American orders for computers. The strongest gains were for its large, recently introduced mainframes, Unix-based computers and software.
"While we remain very cautious about the timing and scope of a global economic recovery, we may be experiencing some early signs of an improving U.S. market," Mr. Unruh said, adding that the company expects to report a profit for all of 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (96%); UIS (SWX) (96%); UIS (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNISYS CORP UNISYS CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNISYS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CASH FLOW (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CLOSINGS (57%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: JAMES A UNRUH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



708 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
As Phoenix Rises In East Europe

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
WILL Poland end up as a prosperous colony of Germany, the bread basket for the colossus of central Europe? Might Hungary vault past its neighbors and forge strong trade ties with America? Could Russia become a major, cash-on-the-barrel importer of Japanese goods?
Such questions sound fanciful with the former Soviet satellites struggling to avoid potholes on the road to capitalism, and Boris Yeltsin wondering where his next bowl of borscht will come from. But viewed through the prism of development economics, the recovery of the European Communist economies seems likely: If Thailand and Taiwan can make the leap to modernity, so, too, can the better-endowed lands of the failed empire. 
 Hence the significance of the ambitious computer simulations by Carl Hamilton of the Institute for International Economic Studies in Stockholm and L. Alan Winters, an economist at the University of Birmingham in Britain. Their analysis, published this month in the journal Economic Policy, suggests that Eastern European trade will be far larger and more diverse than is widely assumed. And while this is good news -- trade, after all, has proved its mettle as an engine of growth -- it points to political friction ahead.
Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Winters rely on what is oddly called the "gravity model" of open trade, a simple but generally accurate predictor of country-by-country import and export flows based on income, population and location. They go back to 1985, a time when the East bloc's output was at its peak, and compare actual trade with simulated flows for open, market-driven economies.
As expected, the simulation suggests that the bulk of the $100 billion worth of trade within the bloc was dictated by the Kremlin's wish to make the socialist world self-sufficient. What should surprise, though, is the degree to which the total volume of trade was suppressed by the cold war.
The model predicts total imports from the West equaling $261 billion, almost five times the actual flow. In terms of absolute volume, the European Community and Germany in particular would have reaped the biggest gains in exports -- a five-fold increase to $133 billion. But the biggest single winner would have been America, with a thirteenfold increase in sales to $50 billion.
Note that these trade numbers do not apply to some distant happy future in which Eastern Europeans all drive Saabs and escape winter on the beaches of North Africa. They are about a not very successful Eastern Europe that merely regains the level of physical productivity it managed the year Mikhail S. Gorbachev was elected chairman of the Soviet Communist Party -- a goal attainable, with any luck, by the end of the decade.
The catch, of course, is that trade is a two-way street. While developing countries might be expected to run substantial trade deficits in the early years in order to finance industrialization, only Ronald Reagan's America has ever dared to imagine a world in which foreign suppliers would accept a nation's i.o.u.'s indefinitely. Thus to reap the likely benefits of wide-open exports to Eastern Europe, other economies must be ready open their markets to Eastern European goods.
That may not be easy. Consider agriculture, probably the sector in the old East bloc economies most amenable to rapid productivity growth. If the world opened its borders to Eastern European farmers, the simulations project export increases ranging from threefold for dairy products to sixfold for pork and poultry. Consumers everywhere would benefit. But their gain would hardly bring joy to European Community's farmers, who would have to swallow sharp cuts in sales and prices.
Industrial exports may prove less problematic. With wage levels that would send South Korean or Taiwan workers out on strike, one might expect Eastern Europe to specialize in the low-tech, labor-intensive goods -- notably clothing -- that are protected by quotas in Western Europe and the United States. But the researchers think not.
Previous studies have shown a correlation between the technology content of exports and science education levels. And by this measure, Eastern Europe runs with the bigger boys on the block. In fact, Hungary ranks ahead of Sweden and Singapore, and even Japan. Thus Eastern Europe's advantage in trade may well be in the broad range of middle- and high-tech products now sold in relatively open world markets and which the European Community has already agreed to accept from Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary.
Much, of course, could still -- and probably will -- go wrong. But Eastern Europe does hold a formidable trump card: If Western Europe won't take its goods, it may end up with its people.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); THAILAND (72%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); THAILAND (72%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FORECASTS; MODELS (SIMULATIONS) IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); MODELING & SIMULATION (74%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); SALES FIGURES (66%); 

PERSON: WINTERS, L ALAN; HAMILTON, CARL; PASSELL, PETER BORIS YELTSIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



709 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Plant Is Closing In Norwich, Conn.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NORWICH, Conn., April 21

 BODY:
Less than three years after being wooed to the area by state officials, National Print and Mail will be shutting down, leaving 165 workers without jobs. The company's president, Anthony Aveni, said the plant here would be closed by June 20. 
 Mr. Aveni said the operations of the Norwich plant would be transferred to a plant in New Jersey. The company came to Norwich in July 1989 after being recruited by the state's Department of Economic Development. The company employed 195 people when it opened, 95 percent of whom were unemployed at the time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PRINT & MAIL CO DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRINT & MAIL CO DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORWICH (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR) CLOSINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (87%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY AVENI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



710 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1979 words

HEADLINE: A Hard-Boiled Look at Midwest Foods

BYLINE: By MARIALISA CALTA

DATELINE: IOWA CITY

 BODY:
"NEVER eat at any place called Mom's," counseled Nelson Algren, a writer who spent his life chronicling the travails of the lost souls of America in books like "The Man With the Golden Arm."
It's the kind of snappy aphorism (with its corollaries "Never play cards with any man named Doc" and "Never sleep with anyone whose troubles are worse than your own") that suited Algren, who won the first National Book Award, in 1950, and who died in 1981 at the age of 72. He was known for his gambling, drinking and womanizing as well as for his novels, which also included "Walk on the Wild Side," and numerous short stories. They were peopled by prostitutes, drug addicts, con artists and the like. It's a piece of advice that, to date, is probably Algren's most public association with food. 
 But on May 5, the University of Iowa Press is publishing, for the first time, "America Eats," a short work that Algren wrote in the 1930's for the Works Progress Administration. It is a portrait of Midwestern foodways, and includes recipes for international foods from apple pie to zabaglione. In "America Eats," he brought to food the same attention to detail he used in describing Frankie Machine shooting heroin in "The Man With the Golden Arm."
Of an Old Settlers Picnic in Nebraska, he wrote: "Heaping bowls of ripe sliced tomatoes are placed every few inches across the table; other bowls are laden with fresh sliced cucumbers. Sweet pickles, dill pickles, bread-and-butter pickles, pickled peaches, pears and crab apples by the gallon wait in crocks. Then there are coleslaws, mixed-vegetable salads, fruit salads and gaily colored pickled eggs. Plates piled high offer hot rolls, hot corn bread, plain white bread, Swedish rye, Russian rye packed with caraway seeds, Swedish twist with a garnish of poppy seeds, whole wheat bread, and the popular sweet raisin bread."
Instead of the cheap whisky and cheaper beer that permeate most of Algren's fiction, "America Eats" is infused with the warm, kitcheny scents of blinis, goulash, Portuguese walnut pudding, breakfast scones and polenta.
The university acquired the 86-page manuscript -- neatly typed on yellow copy paper with the words "Am. Eats Algren" scrawled in pencil at the top of the first page -- as part of an astonishing collection of more than 11,000 cookbooks and culinary writings that date back to 1499 and cover an enormous range of subjects from cannibalism and Antarctic cookery. The collection was donated two years ago by Louis I. Szathmary, a cookbook author and chef in Chicago. The Algren book, available from the press for $22.95, is the second in the Iowa Szathmary Culinary Arts Series. The next, due out next fall, is a Persian cookbook from 1839.
Mr. Szathmary (pronounced SAHT-mah-ree), a Hungarian, first met Algren, whom he calls "that most American of writers, " in the early 1960's in Chicago, where the writer lived for much of his adult life. He frequented Mr. Szathmary's restaurant, the Bakery on the Near North Side of Chicago. Mr. Algren often looked "like a bum," Mr. Szathmary recalled in a recent telephone conversation. But, "he had excellent manners," and, Mr. Szathmary said, "he knew good food and enjoyed it."
"Do not forget that he was the lover of Simone de Beauvoir, the dining companion of Jean-Paul Sartre," Mr. Szathmary said. "On some level, he was an elegant bon vivant."
But Algren hardly had a typical bon vivant's approach to life. On meeting de Beauvoir for the first time, in 1947, Algren took her on a tour of Chicago which included psychiatric wards and an electric chair; their affair took place in both Chicago and Paris.
In his preface to "America Eats," Mr. Szathmary writes of his first visit to the writer's apartment: "Even blindfolded, I would have been able to recognize Nelson's home by its smell. It was an odor typical of a bachelor's apartment inhabited by one who stored huge amounts of magazines and papers for a long time, who chain-smoked with other chain-smokers over the poker table set up in the kitchen, who kept his clothing clean but never threw anything out. The undertone of beer, bourbon and wine mixed in with the cold, stale smoke. The kitchen faucet dripped, perhaps for years, into some foil pie dishes piled in the sink. Yes, the odor of dripping water was also a part of the general aroma, as were the shaving cream and soap smells from the bathroom."
It was in this apartment, in 1975, that Mr. Szathmary first laid eyes on the "America Eats" manuscript, which was on view as Algren auctioned off many of his possessions to finance a move from Chicago to New Jersey. "That apartment depressed me," Mr. Szathmary said. "One of the greatest American writers living such a life! It was clear he needed money, but he would never take it if I offered to give him some." Instead, Mr. Szathmary bid on the manuscript, offering a generous sum which he declines to disclose. "Nelson thought I was sheer mad," he said.
According to Mr. Szathmary, the author told him, "the recipes in it are lousy." Algren explained: "It was a Government writer's project. I did it because I needed the money."
Algren had been desperate to join the W.P.A., according to his biographer, Bettina Drew. In "Nelson Algren: A Life on the Wild Side" (University of Texas Press, 1991) Ms. Drew wrote of the writer's depression over the financial and critical failure of his first novel, "Somebody in Boots," published in 1935, a suicide attempt soon after, and an enforced stay in a mental hospital. Penniless and unemployed, she said, Algren pulled every literary string he could to get hired on at the Illinois Writers' Project, a branch of the W.P.A.
As a project member, along with other future literary stars like Saul Bellow and Richard Wright, Algren helped write travel guides and collect folk tales. David E. Schoonover, curator of rare books at the University of Iowa, said Algren's writing on Midwestern eating habits was part of a national project to record regional foodways. These manuscripts, he said, were filed away as the Federal Government turned its energies to mobilizing for World War II.
Although food was not Algren's usual subject, "America Eats" comes alive with the same vivid writing and feeling for the underclass that illuminate his fiction. His chapter on the settling of the plains, for example, describes white settlers who "desolated the Indian lands" by slaughtering the buffalo for sport and littering the plains with carcasses. "By the time of the War Between the States the white had modified the Indian's natural diet in more ways than one," Algren writes. "In fact, he had just about put a stop to it altogether."
The book is peopled with "braves in buckskin," "blue-turbaned voyageurs," "drawling steamboat men," "Negro fish vendors," "Irish section hands." In its pages, hard-working women of every ethnicity -- including Armenian, Chinese, Hungarian, Welsh, Norwegian, Flemish, Italian, Mexican, Danish, Polish, German, African, Austrian and Dutch -- slave over wood- and coal- and gas-fired stoves to produce the foods of their homelands.
The book is also laced with the humor that, in his fiction, Algren employed to lighten the otherwise unrelievedly bleak landscapes of urban poverty and human despair. Michigan is dubbed "the land of mighty breakfasts." He writes of an "old French custom" that "lends an added zest to holiday suppers," the making of bouillon using stolen chickens: "To invite a neighbor to dine on his own fowl is considered a social grace, to be caught prowling in the henhouse is something else."
In describing a Wisconsin dinner of lutefisk, a Norwegian dish of dried codfish, he wrote: "When great quantities of lutefisk, boiled potatoes and lefse [potato pancakes] have been consumed, the lutefisk-supper habitue sits back for ten or fifteen minutes, then starts all over again. At breakfast the next morning he unfolds his newspaper, glances quickly at the war news, and then scans the minor columns for an announcement of the next lutefisk supper."
Algren's text, which the university press has illustrated with period photographs from the State Historical Society of Iowa, needed minimal editing, Dr. Schoonover said. The recipes were another matter. Mr. Szathmary, mindful of Algren's warning that the recipes were "lousy," took it upon himself to test them and found that Algren's description fairly accurate. Whether given to Algren by home cooks who assumed others would be deeply familiar with the dishes, or carelessly recorded by the writer, many of the recipes did not work, Mr. Szathmary said. With a team of culinary students from Johnson and Wales University in Rhode Island, Mr. Szathmary reworked and tested all the recipes, including the corrected versions along with Algren's originals at the back of the book.
The result is an international melange of dishes like Welsh skillet bread, French brunoise (vegetable soup garnish), stews from Flanders and Arabia, and Chinese sweet-and-sour pork.
"These are the foods of many nations, brought from many lands to nourish one land," Algren wrote. "They are all the Old World ways which have gone into the great melting pot of the Middle West, to come out behind the counter of the all-night hamburger stand on U.S. 66 or in the quick-service businesman's lunch on any downtown street in Minneapolis, Akron or Omaha.
"Many foods, many nations. Yet one food, one nation. Many lands, one land."
 
Goulash and Spatzle
(Adapted from "America Eats")
Total time: 2 1/2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration
 
For the goulash:
 
2 teaspoons salt, plus more, to taste
1 tablespoon sweet Hungarian paprika
 1/2 teaspoon fresh ground pepper, plus more, to taste
 1/8 teaspoon garlic salt
2 pounds beef chuck, cut into 1-inch cubes
 1/2 cup lard or chicken fat
2 large onions, peeled and chopped fine
1 1/2 2 tablespoons flour
3 cups beef broth or water
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
 
For the spatzle:
 
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 cup milk
3 cups flour
2 teaspoons salt
6 tablespoons butter, cut into small pieces
1 cup minced parsley.
 1. To make the goulash, combine the salt, 1 teaspoon of the paprika, pepper and garlic salt in a small bowl. Season the meat with the spice mixture. Set aside.
2. In a large casserole, heat the lard or chicken fat over high heat until it begins to smoke. Add the pieces of meat in one layer and, while stirring constantly, quickly fry the meat until evenly browned, about 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Add the onions and cook until wilted, about 3 minutes. Sprinkle the flour over the meat and stir until blended. Add the remaining paprika, reduce the heat to medium low, and stir for an additional 2 minutes.
4. Add the broth or water, tomato paste and caraway seeds. Cover, and simmer over low heat until meat is tender, about 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Set aside to cool, cover and refrigerate overnight.
5. Reheat the goulash over low heat and season with salt and pepper to taste.
6. To make the spatzle, combine the eggs and milk in a large glass or ceramic bowl. Set aside. Combine the flour and 1 teaspoon of the salt in a separate bowl. Slowly add the flour mixture to the eggs and beat until smooth. Set aside at room temperature for 30 minutes.
7. Preheat oven to 200 degrees. Bring a large pot of water to a boil, and add the remaining salt. Reduce the heat to a simmer, drop 1/2 teaspoons of the dough into the water and simmer until cooked through, about 2 to 3 minutes after they rise to the surface. Drain, rinse under cold running water, drain again and transfer the spatzle to an ovenproof baking dish. Add the butter, stir, and keep warm in the oven until ready to serve.
8. Divide the spatzle into individual bowls, spoon the goulash over, and garnish with parsley.
Yield: 6 Servings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Algren as he looked in Chicago in 1950. (Art Shay) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: AMERICA EATS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA PRESS UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA PRESS UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; RECIPES WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); HEROIN (68%); 

PERSON: CALTA, MARIALISA; ALGREN, NELSON NELSON ALGREN (96%); LOUIS I SZATHMARY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



711 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
YOU'VE been driving your beat-up car for years. Looks awful but runs fine. Then your neighbor comes home with a flashy new job, and for the first time you are embarrassed by your old clunker.
That's the way it is with petite sirah. Long a staple of the California wine scene -- never a star but never exactly a bit player, either -- it was an acceptable grape producing an acceptable, occasionally attractive wine. 
 Then one day someone -- it may have been Joseph Phelps -- came out with a wine made from a grape called syrah. Syrah, we were told, was the real thing: a famous grape from the Rhone Valley with a pedigree going back to Persia.
O.K., we all exclaimed in unison, but then what is this petite sirah we've been drinking? Oh, that, replied the experts; that's some mutt of a grape from the Auvergne or some other disadvantaged region. Forget about it. And, of course, we promptly did.
Subsequently, the syrah has become what the French would call tres a la mode in wine circles. Along with mourvedre, cinsault and grenache, it has ridden the wave of recent enthusiasm for Rhone grape varieties.
The idea was this: California wine makers have spent 30 years now grafting, cloning and in other ways perfecting their versions of some famous French grapes, notably cabernet sauvignon, chardonnay, sauvignon blanc and, more recently, pinot noir. But are not these the grapes of France's temperate zones: Bordeaux, Burgundy and the Loire? And are not California's wine regions more on the latitude of North Africa, climatically nearer to the Rhone Valley than to the Loire or the Garonne?
Yes, said the experts, but there are all these microclimates where one can do un-Californian things with grapes.
Fine, said the proponents of the new varieties, but why not take California for what it is rather than seek out exceptions to the rule? So they planted their Rhone varieties and have enjoyed considerable success. As almost anyone who has tasted the wines of Bonny Doon Vineyard, Edmunds St. John, Cline Cellars or McDowell Valley Vineyards will agree.
And so the image of petite sirah plunged. It was never more than a blending grape, anyway, scoffed the trendier wine people as they ran to shell out big bucks for the new Rhone-style offerings.
Perhaps the ultimate humiliation for the poor grape came from McDowell Valley. Experts decided that some 36 acres of old vines that McDowell had always billed as petite sirah were actually syrah with a y. In other words, the real thing. McDowell quickly changed the name.
Petite sirah is actually a grape known in France as the durif. The name has an Arabic intonation to it, but it is misplaced. The grape was named after a nurseryman, Dr. Durif, who propagated it in France in the 1880's. It has all but disappeared in France, but it has long enjoyed a steady popularity in California, if only as a blending grape, good for beefing up the flavor and color of lighter wines.
At the beginning of the Rhone adventure in the early 1980's, there were some 11,000 acres of it planted in the state. For a few years, a small winery in the Santa Cruz mountains actually bottled it under the durif name. How it got to be called petite sirah is a mystery.
At its best petite sirah, like syrah, produces a big, vigorous, tannic wine that makes up for its lack of elegance with rich fruitiness and plenty of unsubtle flavor. Which is why it was long popular as a blending wine. There have always been wine makers intrigued enough by the grape to bottle it as a varietal. One of its loyal fans is Paul Draper of Ridge Vineyards, who has made some superb petite sirahs over the years, while at the same time using it sparingly as a part of some of his blends.
Gemello, Hop Kiln, Guenoc and, of course, McDowell, have all produced petite sirahs over the years. One from Guenoc won high honors at a major wine competition in San Francisco last year. Sotoyome Winery, under its new Christopher Creek label, has just released a 1988 petite sirah that was aged in French oak.
Other producers include Fetzer Vineyards, Louis M. Martini, Field Stone Winery and Vineyard, Bogle Vineyards, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars and Stags' Leap Winery. At least one winery, Preston, in the Dry Creek Valley in Sonoma County, has hedged its bets, producing several vintages of a syrah-sirah blend.
Even so, the petite sirah grape has steadily declined in importance in recent years. Some 91 wineries were growing it in 1981, while a decade later the number had declined to fewer than 60, and much of the wine was destined for blending. From those 11,000 acres of the grape in 1980, the plantings had dropped to about 3,000 acres in 1990.
One of petite sirah's staunchest supporters -- and producers -- is the Foppiano Vineyards in Sonoma County. The Foppianos have been growing and vinifying the variety for 80 years and have no plans to stop.
Lou Foppiano is not optimistic about the grape's future. American wine drinkers have moved away from big, tannic wines to lighter, more elegant varietals, which means that chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon are more profitable grapes for both growers and wine makers. "As bottom-line economics force the industry to focus on only the most profitable varietals," Mr. Foppiano said recently, "petite sirah will surely become more difficult to find."
For the moment, however, there are still some good examples around for anyone willing to look for them. And most petite sirahs are reasonably priced -- if you consider $10 reasonable. The Foppiano 1990, which includes wine from 80- 50- and 20-year-old vines, is available for about $10.
 
TASTINGS
Shafer Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon Hillside Select, 1987; about $35.
 Shafer Vineyards, in the prominent Stags Leap viticultural area in the Napa Valley of California, produces two cabernets. One, from grapes grown on the valley floor, is usually blended with merlot and presents a softer, more approachable aspect when young. The other is the winery's star, the 100 percent cabernet sauvignon Hillside Select. This wine, made only in the most favorable years, is produced from grapes grown on steep, terraced slopes climbing up from the valley at its eastern edge. The soil is shallow, rocky and volcanic, and it puts desirable stress on the vines. The wines are aged two years in oak and about 30 months in bottle before release. Even when young, the Hillside Select shows great concentration and richness. If properly cellared, it should improve for another decade. The price is high but the wine will hold its own with competitors that cost much more.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); AUVERGNE, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: VALLEY VINEYARDS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); AUVERGNE, FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: WINES WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); WINERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J JOSEPH W PHELPS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



712 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
People

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:

* Peter Mackey was named vice president and general manager at Anderson & Lembke Inc., San Francisco. He had been vice president and management supervisor on the Sprint account at J. Walter Thompson, New York and San Francisco.
 
* Scott Franks, senior vice president at Ketchum Advertising, Philadelphia, was promoted to executive vice president and director of client services. Chick Housam, senior vice president, was promoted to executive president and director of operations and planning. 

* Judy Black, vice president and strategic media project manager at Bozell Inc. in New York, was promoted to senior vice president.
* Carl Ravitch, senior vice president and senior marketing officer at Audits & Surveys Inc., New York, was promoted to executive vice president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: JWT (91%); ANDERSON & LEMBKE INC (91%); GFK AG (83%); BOZELL INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVE MOVES (92%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (86%); COMPANY STRATEGY (83%); 

PERSON: PETER MACKEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



713 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Higher Education -- or Lower?

 BODY:
Virtually no public service can escape its share of the cutbacks that tough times impose on New York State. But the reductions imposed on public universities now cut so close to the bone that it's becoming impossible to ask them simply to take the pain. They cannot keep making cuts this deep and fulfill their assigned mission.
Something has to change. Either there has to be more money, or less mission. And it's none too soon for New Yorkers, like responsible citizens of other states, to argue out what it is they expect of higher education, public and private. 
 The Legislature and Board of Regents might take the lead. Gov. Mario Cuomo might create a blue-ribbon commission as the forum for such a debate. But one way or another, the public has to stop pretending that it can maintain quality higher education without paying the price.
New York has long prided itself on providing good higher education through three systems: the 64 campuses of the State University of New York; the 21 senior and community colleges of the City University of New York, and 130 independent colleges and universities that since 1967 have received state support.
But lately, New York's pride has turned into New York's pretense. In the last academic year, close to 4 percent of state taxes went to expenses of public colleges and universities. The U.S. average is 7 percent, nearly twice that.
Under the 1992-93 budget, SUNY will suffer an $83 million cut even assuming a $500 tuition increase awaiting approval. CUNY will suffer a $40 million cut after a similar increase. And the independent colleges will lose $33 million in state aid.
Decreased state support has prompted needed self-examination. Colleges and universities have imposed efficiencies like consolidating departments and increasing teaching loads. But there's a limit. SUNY has cut 5,000 faculty and staff positions since the mid-1970's, out of 26,000. Access is threatened by more selective admissions. Some students can't finish in four years because important courses are overflowing, or aren't offered every year.
Maintaining the quality of research facilities and faculty expertise is critical to the state's economic and social health. Such resources are drawing cards for research grants, top-flight personnel and students.
There are short-term palliatives. The Legislature could ease some of the pain by passing an early retirement incentive program. But the larger question can no longer be avoided: What kind of higher education system does New York want?
Perhaps the state needs to give up on universal access to higher education, raising admissions standards and tuition and reducing scholarships. Elimination of whole campuses needs examination from both the political and the educational perspectives. Perhaps the state should try to maintain present quality and access -- by maintaining present levels of aid.
The hard questions are surely not limited to SUNY and CUNY. The independent colleges enroll 40 percent of the state's undergraduates and confer 58 percent of its undergraduate and 72 percent of its postgraduate degrees. To cut their aid more only risks driving students to the public campuses.
These are not merely painful budget-balancing questions. They go to New York's attitude toward economic development, individual opportunity, upward mobility and its posterity. They need to be openly and thoughtfully confronted now, well before the next bloody budget battle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (88%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (88%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); EARLY RETIREMENT (60%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



714 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Unfair Trade, and Its Victims

 BODY:
There will be $200 billion a year at stake when President Bush meets today with President Jacques Delors of the European Commission. That's what an international trade agreement is worth to the world economy -- and what will be lost if Mr. Bush and Europe don't stop squabbling about protectionist farm policy.
The Uruguay Round of trade talks, begun five years ago, was designed to forge a grand bargain. The third world would agree to rules governing foreign investment, services, copyrights and patents. In exchange, the developed world would open its borders to imports of food and textiles and stop pummeling third world farmers by dumping subsidized food exports. 
 Poorer countries appear willing to uphold their end. But the E.C. does not. It's hanging onto protectionist policies, thereby inviting collapse of the talks. Three issues block agreement. The E.C. rejects U.S. and third world demands for tight limits on subsidized food exports. It insists on raising tariffs on U.S. exports of cereal substitutes. It further insists on replacing farm price supports, which create the food surpluses that are dumped abroad, with direct income payments to farmers.
A smidgeon of compromise would go a long way. The U.S., for example, could allow the E.C. a few modest tariff increases, as long as the Europeans agreed to phase them out quickly. The U.S. could also permit indefinite income support for E.C. farmers, but only if the payments did not become a backdoor production subsidy.
The U.S. cannot tolerate loose restrictions on E.C. export subsidies. That could force third world countries to back out of the Uruguay Round. There are other disputes between the U.S. and E.C., but settling the farm dispute is the key.
The U.S. and Europe will not be the big losers if talks collapse. The E.C. would likely focus on new internal links; the U.S. would probably engage in bilateral negotiations and unilateral threats. The loser would be the most vulnerable countries, desperate to eke out a living by selling to Westerners. For them, an accord is essential to survival.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); AGRICULTURE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; URUGUAY ROUND (TRADE TALKS); THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FARMERS; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) ; EDITORIALS; TREATIES INTERNATIONAL TRADE (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); PATENTS (70%); 

PERSON: ;BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



715 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Gains in Deciphering Genes Set Off Effort to Guard Data Against Abuses

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
Genetic engineers' success in reading the blueprints of life is touching off wide-ranging efforts to regulate the way information about heredity can be collected, used, maintained and disseminated.
These efforts, including action by state legislatures and in Congress, are prompted by rapid progress in gene research and fears that the technology could set off bitter disputes between those who seek to keep their genetic makeup private and employers, insurance companies or even prospective spouses who want to know all they can about a possible employee, customer or mate. 
 Some experts fear the result could be a conflict between fundamental ideals of fairness, equality and privacy and imperatives of economic efficiency and free enterprise.
 
Identification of Genes
 Researchers have identified about 3,000 of the estimated 100,000 genes that compose human DNA, the blueprints of heredity. Among them are those suspected of causing many of the 4,000 known hereditary illnesses as well as genetic "markers" that may signal susceptibility to conditions previously thought to stem from environmental factors, like cancer. Eventually, scientists hope to identify individuals with a predisposition to common illnesses like arteriosclerosis and arthritis.
Although genetic engineering is still in its infancy, it is already being woven into the social fabric. In the Persian Gulf war, for example, the American armed forces began collecting DNA samples of military personnel as a way to identify mutilated corpses. And a study two years ago by the Office of Technology Assessment, a research arm of Congress, found that 5 percent of Fortune 500 companies use genetic profiling for screening and monitoring employees. Some simply ask questions about the health of employees' family members; others actually use DNA analysis. And 55 more companies said they might start using the tests by 1994.
The fear of attempts to try to improve the human species through hereditary factors has led to increasing efforts to control access and use of genetic profiles. Legislatures in 21 states have considered laws to limit "genetic discrimination," and four states have passed laws to prohibit employers from discriminating on the basis of genetic information.
A bill now before Congress would forbid the release of genetic information without written consent, except in medical emergencies or, in the case of criminal investigations, after showing probable cause for suspicion.
In opening a recent hearing on the bill, Representative Robert E. Wise Jr., a West Virginia Democrat, called the new technology "an especially complex and far-reaching area."
"The range of policy problems goes far beyond traditional privacy concerns," said Mr. Wise, who heads the Subcommittee on Government Information, Justice and Agriculture. "We may also be required to reconsider the doctor-patient relationship, re-examine the basic principles of life and health insurance and decide generally how we are going to treat individuals in light of the new information that will become available."
The Congressional study on genetic testing of employees by companies found that half of the employers' health officers considered the practice to be generally acceptable and that 62 percent said it should be the employer's decision whether and when to perform such genetic tests.
"The F.B.I., the military, the insurance industry is going to find it irresistible," said George J. Annas, director of the Law, Medicine and Ethics Program at the Boston University Schools of Medicine and Public Health. "You can use this thing in all kinds of ways that aren't very nice. Ultimately, it's a tool for a much more centralized, obtrusive government."
 
Fear of Invisible Barriers
 Ethicists say the technology threatens to create an invisible barrier that will prevents large groups from finding work or buying insurance. Ultimately, they say, genetic discrimination risks could become as pervasive as racial discrimination.
So far, the issue is most often raised in the workplace, especially as genetic screening makes it increasingly easy and cheap to identify employees or prospective employees who are susceptible to health problems or workplace hazards.
"If we can pick out the truly risky, they become uninsurable," said Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Minnesota. "Not only do they become uninsurable, they become untouchable. We wouldn't want to marry them. We wouldn't want to biologically interact with them. The obvious step then is to prevent, remove, engineer away the genetic problems."
While the current prevalence of such discrimination is debated, experts who follow the issue say it is spreading rapidly and will become even more common as techniques to collect genetic profiles are refined and become less expensive. Paul Billings, chief of genetic medicine at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco, said an informal survey found 50 cases in which people had been denied jobs, insurance claims or other benefits because of their genes in the last two years.
Among the four states that have passed laws to prohibit employers from discriminating on the basis of genetic information, Florida, Louisiana and North Carolina specifically prohibit discrimination against people carrying the gene for sickle-cell anemia, which mainly strikes blacks.
The law in the fourth state, New Jersey, is broader than the others. It prohibits discrimination based on an "atypical hereditary cellular or blood trait." That includes cystic fibrosis, the most common lethal inherited disease among whites, as well as blood disorders like sickle-cell anemia and Tay-Sachs disease. In addition to those states, at least 17 others, including New York, have considered some form of genetic legislation in the last two years. A bill introduced in New York would provide screening and counseling for Tay-Sachs disease, and includes provisions to keep the information confidential.
In the broadest measure, the California Legislature passed a bill last year to give hereditary information civil rights protection -- what amounts to a genetic bill of rights. But the legislation was vetoed by Gov. Pete Wilson, who said it would discourage testing and brand employers as bigots if they sought to control health-care costs.
The House bill, sponsored by John Conyers Jr., the Michigan Democrat who heads the Government Operations Committee, would regulate the collection, maintenance, use and dissemination of such information by the Federal Government, its contractors and recipients of Federal grants. The bill would forbid the release of genetic information without written consent except in medical emergencies or, after showing of probable cause, in criminal investigations.
But some critics say the bill is too narrow. They also argue that people with genes for inherited diseases and abnormalities should be covered by the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination against the handicapped.
Critics say extending the law's protective umbrella to people carrying genetic defects would be extremely expensive for employers.
A Congressional study released this month said the growing use of detailed genetic profiles might have far-reaching effects on Americans' ability to find work, insurance and medical treatment. "We are opening a Pandora's box in which genetic information may be used as a discriminatory weapon against individuals," Mr. Conyers said.
 
Genes and Destiny
 "The danger is that genes are not destiny," said Prof. Mark Rothstein, director of the Health Law and Policy Institute at the University of Houston. "You may have a mild case and be unaffected. You may have a brief and brilliant career that you should be able to enjoy."
While the developing genetic technologies will greatly expand the ability to make rational, informed decisions about personal health care, many ethicists say it will be almost impossible to keep that information private. For example, a recent study at the University of Minnesota found that at least 50 people had access to each patient's medical charts.
But Dick Godown, president of the Industrial Biotechnology Association, an industry group of 117 companies, argues that requiring strict privacy -- even if possible -- is counterproductive. "The answer for society can't be to hide the information," he said. "It has to be to put it to the best use. Your doctor needs it, your employer needs it. Your marriage partner needs it. The real question is where to draw the line. That's tough."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Health page on Wednesday about efforts to regulate the use of individuals' genetic information gave an outdated affiliation for Dr. Paul Billings. He is chief of genetic medicine at the California Pacific Medical Center, formed last year by the merger of Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco, where Dr. Billings was chief of genetic medicine, and Children's Hospital of San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GENETICS AND HEREDITY; RESEARCH SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); DNA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (89%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DNA TESTING (88%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (79%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (74%); FORENSICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (71%); INSURANCE (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); PROBABLE CAUSE (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (52%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



716 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: A Higher Rock Bottom For Many New Air Fares

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
American Airlines has spent two weeks trumpeting the broad cuts it has made in air fares. What it has not talked much about is that on hundreds of routes, including ones as well traveled as New York to Chicago, its rock-bottom fare actually rose -- sometimes as much as doubling.
Between Chicago and Birmingham, Ala., for example, the lowest American round-trip fare has gone from $128 to $260. Typical of an airline's lowest fare, the former price was for non-refundable tickets requiring an advance purchase, and the price was available only on certain flights each day. 
 Robert Crandall, the chairman of American, said the aim in simplifying the fare structure was to eliminate fares with such complex restrictions. But for travelers willing to put up with any restriction as long as they get from one place to another, the result is a higher fare.
Though roughly 95 percent of fliers have been receiving some type of discount, under the old system relatively few could take advantage of the lowest fare because they did not have the flexibility to meet all of the restrictions.
American has also followed the unusual policy of keeping these higher fares in effect even as leading airlines have often failed to match them. It thus stands to lose business to carriers offering lower rates, but American apparently hopes the others will fall in line.
 
A Spot Check of Routes
 On Monday, American announced that it was lowering full-coach and discount fares on many routes, in a calculated warning to weaker carriers that had undercut the simplified fare structure American announced less than two weeks ago.
Even with those cuts, however, American's lowest fares in many other markets are now higher than they were before the company's fare-simplification plan went into effect.
In a spot check of 286 routes, mostly out of Chicago, Andrew Shepp, an airline industry consultant, has found that in 41 markets American's lowest fare is now higher than the lowest fare before its broad changes.
Barbara Amster, American's vice president for pricing and yield management, said, however, that the former lowest fares were those "that comedians make jokes about" because of the complexity of the restrictions.
If one takes into account the more widely used regular discount fares, she said, in most markets there was a considerable cut. Thus for the New York-to-Chicago route the more widely used discount fare was $338, she said, while American's new lowest round-trip discount fare is $260. A highly restricted round-trip fare of $178 was good on only certain flights, while the $338 fare was available on all of American's 20 daily flights, with fewer restrictions, Ms. Amster said.
With all the cuts, it is not clear whether the ratio for the spot-check sample used by Mr. Shepp, in which American's fares were higher in 15 percent of the markets, would hold up if other markets were analyzed. American flies between about 12,000 pairs of cities.
 The higher fares in some markets and the elimination of special fares for the military, conventiongoers and people traveling to relatives' funerals, have caused some fliers to question American's credibility.
"They supposedly lowered the fares," said Paul Margulies, a businessman who makes a hobby of keeping track of air fares and who in recent days has called American about discount fares. "In many cases they raised them."
He said that while the savings to business travelers were sizable -- being cut 38 percent and more in about 1,500 markets on Monday -- the trade-off was that for leisure travelers in some markets, some low fares were eliminated.
The latest round of fare shifting has not impressed those who monitor companies' ability to pay their debts. Standard & Poor's, the rating agency, said yesterday that it might lower its rating on $19.5 billion of debt of seven major United States airlines.
Philip Baggaley, the airline analyst for Standard & Poor's, said the fare cuts and the new fare structure had "confirmed that despite the general upturn in the economy the airlines haven't been able to obtain significant pricing improvement."
He added, "We've been concerned for a while about the sluggish economic recovery, slow growth in overseas markets, the gap in spending and internal cash flow at the airlines and reduced access to capital for the airline industry."
The rating agency listed as candidates for possible downgrade the Alaska Air Group; American's parent, the AMR Corporation; Delta Air Lines Inc.; Northwest's parent, NWA Inc.; Southwest Airlines; United's parent, the UAL Corporation, and the USAir Group.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A table in Business Day on Wednesday with an article about new fares at American Airlines misstated the number of days in the advance-purchase requirement for American's new lowest fares. It is 14 days, not 21.


GRAPHIC: Round-trip fares between selected cities before and after April 13, when American Airlines introduced a major simplification of its fare structure, lowering unrestricted coach fares but eliminating most of its lowest restricted discounted fares.

 	 	 		Lowest Fare	American's		Available*	New Lowest	Route	Before April 13	Fare+	 	 	 	New York-West	$298	$320	Palm Beach, Fla.	 	 	Phoenix-St. Louis	228	330	Birmingham-Chicago	128	260	New York-Chicago	178	260	Dallas-Kansas City, Mo.	180	210	
Table: "American's Vanishing Discount Fares"
 *Discount fares subject to many restrictions. For example, the $128 fare between Birmingham and Chicago was available only on weekday evening and night flights, or on Sunday before noon or after 7 P.M. Similar fares with equally complex restriction were offered by most airlines.
 +Requires 21-day advance purchase, purchase within 24 hours of making a reservation, and a Saturday night stay; non-refundable, but ticket can be exchanged for a $25 fee; limited number of seats per flight. Some other airlines have matched these fares on some routes, while former discount fares remain available on other routes and other airlines.
 
(Sources: American Airlines; Andrew Shepp, a St. Louis-based airlines industry consultant.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (89%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (89%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIR FARES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: CRANDALL, ROBERT ROBERT L CRANDALL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



717 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Plan Linked to Jobs Is Paying Off, a Study Shows

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Four years after Congress passed major legislation aimed at moving welfare recipients into jobs, the first study of its effect shows it has raised the earnings of people on welfare and reduced the amount they receive in public aid.
But analysts are already at odds over whether to deem the gains large or small, and whether they hold much of an answer to the nation's welfare problems. 
 The results of the study, which focused only on six California counties, is being greeted as big news in some research circles, with many saying the gains were larger than expected for a new program and a harbinger of more substantial successes.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who helped design the 1988 welfare law, which requires recipients to join a work, education or training program, called the report "very positive." He said he was especially heartened by the report because the program it evaluated is "still in what's basically a start-up mode."
But with election-year attacks on the welfare system rising, the report is certain to touch off a debate about whether the law will ever produce results that are large enough to bring significant reductions to welfare rolls, which are now at record highs.
The study found that program participants earned an average of $271 more than those in a control group, and received $281 less in welfare.
"You're going to get small, positive benefits, but they won't be big enough to solve the problem," said Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at Northwestern University, reflecting the view of many who have studied welfare-to-work programs. "If you want to cut the caseload 50 percent," he said, "you're going to have to do something much more dramatic."
A report last month by researchers at the State University of New York at Albany sounded a gloomier note by questioning the commitment of officials in many states to the program. That study, unlike the one from California, did not look at the experiences of welfare recipients.
Part of California's relative success may stem from its long history of running welfare-to-work experiments, one not shared in many states that are now struggling to get programs under way.
The California report comes as many officials from President Bush on down are making extravagant promises about putting welfare mothers to work but are offering proposals that typically amount to little more than tinkering.
The study, which will be made public on Thursday, comes from the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a nonprofit research group based in Manhattan.
In examining the experiences of single parents, the study found that a year after being referred to the California program they had earned 17 percent more than a control group of those who had not joined the program. And those in the program had received 5 percent less in welfare payments.
Despite the gains, the overall earnings of the people remained low, with those referred to the program earning an average of $1,902. The researchers said the state of the local economy did not seem to dictate the program's success.
A year after being referred to the program, 73.4 percent of the single parents were still on welfare. That contrasts with a figure of 76.4 percent of the single parents in the control group.
Gail R. Wilensky, a domestic policy aide in the White House with responsibility for welfare, said the California program's accomplishment is "important, it's significant, it's moving us in the right direction, but it hasn't answered the question of how to break down welfare dependency for the whole population."
 
Lessons Remain Unclear
 Among the study's most intriguing findings is that one county, Riverside, had much greater success than the other five -- Alameda, Butte, Los Angeles, San Diego and Tulare. The earnings of single parents in Riverside County rose 65 percent and their welfare payments dropped 12 percent.
But the lessons of its greater success remain unclear. It might stem from Riverside's decision to push its welfare clients into the job market quickly, even if their initial pay was low. Other counties put a heavier stress on educating clients, a strategy that seeks better jobs but runs the risk that clients may get discouraged and quit. By investing in education, other counties may show more impressive results later.
Riverside's success might also stem from the fact that it was quicker than other counties to reduce the grants of welfare recipients who refused to join the program.
The 1988 welfare law, called the Family Support Act, requires every state to run a work, education or training program for people on welfare, and provides up to $1 billion a year in Federal matching funds. By 1995, states will have to enroll one of every five people on welfare in such a program.
California's program, called GAIN, for Greater Avenues for Independence, began several years before the Federal legislation made it compulsory. About half the 33,000 people in the study started the program before 1989, when it was modified slightly to meet the new Federal standards.
 
Strikingly Different Results
 The report on the California study, written by James Riccio and Daniel Friedlander, found strikingly different results among the six counties.
The earnings of single parents on welfare rose by 18 percent in Alameda, 16 percent in San Diego and 15 percent in Butte. But they dropped 1 percent in Los Angeles County, which accounts for about a third of the state's welfare caseload, and 8 percent in Tulare County, compared to a control group.
While overall earnings remained low, some experts emphasized that only about 63 percent of those counted as participants actually joined the program. Others were evaluated but excused because of problems with health, transportation or child care.
The 5 percent overall reduction in welfare payments comes from several sources. Some people in the program got jobs that paid enough to let them leave welfare altogether. Others, in increasing their earnings, qualified for smaller welfare payments.
Unlike the research group's previous reports of such programs, this one did not include a cost-benefit analysis, which looks at whether the savings exceeded the program's cost.
In a telephone interview this week Lawrence Townsend Jr., the director of Riverside County's welfare program, said he thought there were two reasons for the county's success.
The first, he said, was its decision to move people quickly into jobs. The second is enthusiasm. "You have to put a high priority on this," he said. "You have to select your best staff."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Putting Jobs Programs to Work" show average payments to single parents receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children and their average total earnings, in the first year of work, education or training programs in six California counties. (Source: Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation) (pg. D25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RESEARCH INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); PARENTS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



718 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Queens Tennis Center Plan Is Announced and Denounced

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
With tennis world luminaries to provide glamour and support, Mayor David N. Dinkins, New York City's best-known recreational tennis player, began his campaign yesterday to win approval of plans to expand the site of the United States Open in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens.
He watched as city officials publicly signed an agreement with the United States Tennis Association, the Open's organizer, setting out the terms under which the National Tennis Center would expand in the park, and he lauded what he said would be the boon to the city created by the improvements that the association says it needs. 
 But on the periphery of the signing ceremony, held at the center, there was a taste of the opposition that would have to be overcome. Critics of the project from northern and central Queens neighborhoods around the sprawling, three-mile park were in the audience and complained that the plan was an unjustified "giveaway" of scarce and valuable parkland to "special interests."
One opposition leader challenged aides of the tennis association to debate the plan in public. One of the aides termed the opponents a "small vocal minority" that did not reflect the views of most Queens residents, whom he described as "supportive."
The expansion proposal was first announced 14 months ago, and since then the city and the tennis association have been negotiating major financial and other terms. The results of those negotiations were embodied in the agreement formally announced yesterday before a crowd that included local political figures and such celebrities of the sport as John McEnroe and Arthur Ashe.
The plan, however, is still subject to approval by the City Council and the State Legislature.
Under the proposal, the tennis association would lease an additional 31 acres immediately east of its present site and finance the $180 million expansion. It would demolish the three existing stadiums, which have a total of 29,000 seats, and erect three new ones with a total of 38,500 seats.
The proposed lease would have a 25-year term with options for a total of 99 years. City officials estimated that the first year's rent under the new lease would be close to $900,000, compared with the $265,000 the tennis group paid the city last year.
Mayor Dinkins said the terms were "fair to the city as well as to the U.S.T.A." and would "substantially increase the city's economic gains from the U.S. Open" -- the amount he said fans spend in the city at the annual two-week event -- to $130 million each year from $112 million.
One opponent in the audience was Benjamin M. Haber, a lawyer and civic leader in Kew Gardens Hills nearby who is vice chairman of the Committee for the Preservation of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
"We perceive this to be an unwarranted and illegitimate use of public parkland for private special interests," he told reporters.
Other critics questioned the highly precise figures given by city and tennis officials about the Open's contribution to the local economy.

GRAPHIC: Map: Shows the location of the proposed tennis center addition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION; NATIONAL TENNIS CENTER FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK (62%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (91%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION; NATIONAL TENNIS CENTER UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (91%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS) SPORTS (98%); TENNIS (98%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FRIED, JOSEPH P DAVID N DINKINS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



719 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
The Justice Department has accused Teledyne of systematically falsifying tests on one of the most basic components of sophisticated weapons and spacecraft, according to a lawsuit. The civil suit asserts that Teledyne routinely certified to the Government between 1983 and 1990 that the electrical components had passed rigorous reliability tests when they had not. [Page A1.]
Mobil said its earnings plunged 82 percent, while Amerada Hess said it lost $23.4 million. [D2.] 
 Intel introduced a credit card-sized product that can hold 20 megabytes of memory -- as much as some hard-disk drives. [D4.]
The 1585 Broadway office tower in Manhattan's theater district may be finished soon if a settlement goes through. [D7.]
General Electric said it had begun an internal investigation into charges that some of its officials conspired with DeBeers to fix the price of industrial diamonds. [D10.]
European Travel & Life ceased publication, a victim of declining tourism and advertising. [D21.]
Braniff, in its latest incarnation, often fills nearly all the seats on its handful of flights. [D1.]
Nationsbank said it planned to sell about 3 percent of the company's shares to 55,000 employees. [D4.]
 
International
President Bush and European leaders failed to resolve their differences in global trade talks, making it less likely that a deal can be concluded before the elections. [D1.]
Toyota turned down an offer to buy Rolls-Royce, leading Vickers, Rolls-Royce's owner, to say it had held discussions with a number of international companies. [D1.]
I.B.M. and American Airlines are working on a deal to build a computer reservation system for Aeroflot. [D1.]
Olympia & York asked for a new $200 million loan but won no immediate promise of cash at a meeting of creditor banks. [D4.]
A new issue is adding to U.S.-Canadian trade tensions: carpets. Saying that American carpet companies are "dumping," Canada has just imposed duties averaging 12 percent. [D5.]
The I.M.F. sharply reduced its forecast for the world economy, saying growth would be only a sluggish 1.4 percent this year. [D9.]
 
The Economy
Americans' per-capita income shrank in 1991, adjusted for inflation, for the first time in nine years, the Government said. Personal income totaled $19,082 a person last year, just 2.1 percent more than in 1990, but that was about half the inflation rate. [D1.]
More than 230 cases of suspected banking fraud in New England that could amount to more than $1 billion are being investigated by Federal authorities. [D1.]
A judge decided not to intervene in an S.E.C. case that is becoming a political embarrassment to Richard C. Breeden. [D2.]
The Fed adopted tighter limits on the amount a bank is allowed to lend to its directors, executives and large shareholders. [D8.]
 
Markets
Stock prices were mixed in a lackluster market again propped up by bank stocks. The Dow fell 4.48, to 3,338.77. [D12.] Prices of Treasury securities eased slightly. [D19.]
Corn futures prices dropped sharply amid mostly speculative selling after the May delivery price hit an eight-month low. [D20.]
The dollar fell except against the Canadian dollar in dull trading. Gold prices retreated. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
The strike's end has left Caterpillar ready to capitalize on a pickup in domestic demand. Market Place. [D12.]
Organizations that seek to help the mentally ill are increasingly critical of ad campaigns that, they assert, portray mental illness insensitively. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (72%); HES (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); AFLT (RTS) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (72%); HESS CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INFLATION (88%); CONSPIRACY (78%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (75%); THEATER (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); AIRLINES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); HARD DRIVES (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



720 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Braniff Aims at the Infrequent Flier

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
It has fewer daily departures throughout its entire system than USAir has from Indianapolis alone, and its fleet of 10 planes is hardly a threat to the 485 that fly the friendly skies for United.
But Braniff airlines, by charging passengers $100 or so less than its larger competitors, often manages to fill nearly all the seats on the 50 routes it does fly. And at a time when the airline industry continues to bleed red ink, Braniff has made an increasingly larger, though still modest, profit in each of the last four months. 
 So goes the latest incarnation of Braniff -- Braniff International Airlines Inc., to be precise -- which in addition to its continental United States routes flies twice a day to San Juan, P.R., and once to St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. Based in Dallas, Braniff also operates its 164-seat 727's from Newark and from Islip, L.I., to several cities in Florida.
In 1989, after the old Braniff's second bankruptcy, Jeffrey R. Chodorow and Arthur G. Cohen, two real estate developers, paid $313,000 for what was essentially the Braniff name and operating manuals. They then acquired Emerald Air, another bankrupt airline, and changed its name to Braniff.
"We welcome anyone who wants to fly with us," said Mr. Chodorow, Braniff's chairman and co-owner, "but our main target is the infrequent flier."
Make that infrequent fliers with plenty of time on their hands. Passengers cannot book Braniff tickets through travel agents. They must either call a toll-free reservations number, or go to a Braniff ticket counter, neither of which is easy.
Until recently the odds of getting through by telephone were somewhere between drawing to an inside straight and winning the Irish Sweepstakes. From mid-January to mid-February, three million phone calls overwhelmed the reservations number. After adding hundreds of additional operators and tripling the number of phone lines, Braniff still can handle only 500,000 calls a month.
And when passengers arrive at one of the 16 airports that Braniff serves, they often must contend with long lines as beleaguered agents write tickets by hand. The agents are still awaiting the arrival of electronic ticket printers from France.
So heavy has been the demand for some flights, and so high the frustration level of people bumped from oversold flights, that riots nearly broke out among angry Braniff passengers earlier this year at MacArthur Airport in Islip.
Braniff, for all its turbulence, has continued to grow from the four original routes it started last summer. In the last two months it has added daily flights from Boston; Atlanta; Columbus, Ohio, and Minneapolis-St. Paul. It hopes to add more Caribbean cities.
"Braniff has done what you have to do -- find a niche and stick to it," said Lee Howard, the president of Airline Economics, a research firm in Washington.
 
Not Like the Old Days
 All this is a far cry from the original Braniff, whose bold, multicolored airplanes helped pioneer routes to South America during the 1960's.
After the carrier ran into financial problems following the deregulation of the airline industry in 1978, Braniff filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors in 1982 and again in 1989. In 1988 a majority interest was bought by Bia-Cor Holdings Inc., a Philadelphia-based company, whose chairman is Mr. Chodorow.
From about 50 planes and 5,000 workers a few years ago, Braniff now has only one-fifth the number of aircraft and employees. Many of them, including pilots, were with Braniff in either or both of its previous incarnations.
 
Frills? Forget It
 Braniff's formula can be summed up in two words: low fares. Braniff's lowest round-trip ticket between New York or Newark and Orlando or Miami is $198, and that will drop to $158 for the period May 1 to June 30, to widen the gap further between Braniff fares and those of competitors. The airline limits the number of seats sold at those fares on each flight. But it does not require advance purchase and payment or require travelers to stay over a Saturday night, restrictions common on other airlines.
Braniff's New York-Orlando fares compare with United's lowest round-trip fare for the route: $262 with a 14-day advance purchase, down from $358 before the recent fare restructuring. For this discount fare, however, United imposes most of the usual restrictions.
Nine months before the major airlines went to their new simplied fare structures, Braniff had only three fares. It also allowed passengers to reschedule flights for a $25 fee, an option the majors also just now adopted.
 
'You Can't Beat the Rate'
 On every route, Braniff's approach remains the same -- rock-bottom prices, no private clubs at airports, no frequent-flier miles, no first-class or business-class seats. Only two of its routes, Newark-Fort Lauderdale and Boston-Newark, have as many as two flights a day. Even those are spaced at least nine hours apart, meaning that if a plane is canceled, passengers booked on that flight are likely to be out of luck.
But not always. Rosalie Swenson, arriving back at Newark International Airport from Fort Lauderdale one recent day, said that on her trip down to Florida, Braniff had canceled the flight she was booked on, but was able to seat her on another Braniff plane.
"They served a good meal and you can't beat the rate," she said of her $198 round trip.
 
Late, Early, Crowded
 While the Braniff flight from Miami that day was three hours late, the airline's flight from Fort Lauderdale rolled up to the gate at Newark almost 20 minutes ahead of schedule. "I've never been on a flight before that was early," said Patrick Joyce, who added that he would fly Braniff again.
Awaiting her Braniff return flight from Newark to Boston, Esther Cohen said her flight to Newark a few days earlier had been "jam packed."
"It was a big plane, and every seat was taken," Mrs. Cohen said. She coupled praise for Braniff's prices with criticism for the paucity of the airline's signs at both airports. Braniff's Newark ticket counter is better marked, but the carrier is squeezed between Delta and Air France, awaiting possible relocation.
In January, the Transportation Department received 25 complaints against Braniff -- 10 for cancellations or delays, a high number for such a small a carrier. But complaints fell to 18 in February, the last month for which figures are available. And Mr. Chodorow said they would drop further after Braniff takes delivery of two additional 727's in May, to serve as spares.
Mr. Chodorow, 42 years old, lives in North Miami Beach, Fla. but spends most of his time at the Dallas headquarters. He has hired a search firm to find a president to run the carrier day to day, but meantime he is overseeing operations himself, as well as choosing Braniff's new routes. He had not expected the airline to grow so fast, he said, but the collapse of Pan American and Midway last year forced his hand.
"The dilemma," he said, "is that if you don't take advantage of the opportunity, somebody else will."
Braniff's success from MacArthur Airport has not gone unnoticed; Destination Sun Airways of Fort Lauderdale hopes to begin flying this summer between its home airport and Islip. But as long as neither niche carrier flies more than one or two flights a day each, analysts say, the major airlines are unlikely to try to match their lower fares.
 
End of Bankruptcy Is Seen
 Mr. Chodorow said that Braniff's Chapter 11 filing last August resulted from unresolved issues relating to the Emerald purchase and to the sudden cancellation of its landing rights at Los Angeles International Airport.
Since then, Braniff's preliminary reorganization plan has been accepted in principle by the creditors' committee, Mr. Chodorow said, and the carrier will emerge from Chapter 11 with no debts, he said.
Meantime, Mr. Chodorow said the carrier had profits of $28,000 in December, $138,000 in January, $197,000 in February and probably even more in March, for which figures are still being compiled. Braniff's costs are down to about 6 cents a mile, extraordinarily low compared with 8.2 cents for T.W.A. and about 9 cents for the other major carriers.
And, as if putting competitors on notice, Mr. Chodorow added, "We expect to do even better than that when our spare planes arrive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: It its latest incarnation, Braniff Airlines, the carrier with nine lives, has found a profitable market niche: the infrequent flier. At MacArthur Airport in Islip, L.I., yesterday, activity was brisk at the Braniff counter, with some travelers preparing to depart and other people meeting arriving passengers. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. D1); Jeffrey R. Chodorow, the chairman and co-owner of Braniff International Airlines. (Jarrold Cabluck for The New York Times) (pg. D7)
 
Map/Diagram: "Where Braniff Flies" shows the routes of Braniff International Airlines. (Source: Braniff International) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (71%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BRANIFF INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES INC U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRANIFF INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); INDIANA, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (71%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FARES; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (94%); AIRPORTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (72%); RIOTS (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; CHODOROW, JEFFREY R; COHEN, ARTHUR G ARTHUR G COHEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



721 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reacts Coolly to Peruvian Leader's Program

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 22

 BODY:
The United States today kept up the pressure it has maintained on President Alberto K. Fujimori since he assumed near dictatorial powers by holding back any clear endorsement of his proclaimed timetable for restoring constitutional rule.
Margaret Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman, said in Washington that the series of referendums and votes that Mr. Fujimori outlined in a televised address to the nation on Tuesday night would restore democracy more quickly than his earlier proposals, but she added, "In our opinion, it would still leave Peru without constitutional processes for nearly a year." 
 She said the United States would consult with the Organization of American States about the proposals.
The timetable, issued as the President sought to rebuff charges of illegitimate rule, called for a national poll on July 5 that would ask voters whether they approved of his suppression of Parliament and curbs on the judiciary. Under his proposal, this would be followed on Aug. 31 by the publication of proposed ammendments to the Constitution and on Nov. 8 by a referendum on these.
The President foresaw parliamentary elections for the end of February, with the new legislature to be sworn in on April 5, exactly a year after he moved to quash the old one.
 
Japan Won't Halt Aid
 The hesitant stand by the United States comes as it is emerging as the country mounting the greatest pressure on Mr. Fujimori. The Japanese Foreign Ministry, in contrast, announced today that Mr. Fujimori's plan represented an "important step toward normalization."
Perhaps more important for Mr. Fujimori was a report that the Japanese have at this point decided not to halt or suspend the $126 million in development aid it pledged to give Peru when Mr. Fujimori visited Tokyo in March.
For its part, the United States has halted all its economic and military aid, with economists estimating that as much as $1.3 billion in economic assitance from Washington has been put on hold in the last 17 days. In addition, Washington has enlisted the cooperation of Germany and Spain as well as the multinational lending groups in sending a message here that there will be no new aid, no restructuring of Peru's debts, no "reinsertion" in the world economic community until democracy is restored.
"The key pressure point is the bilateral aid from the United States to Peru," said an American official here. "If we withhold that, it has a domino effect on other aid packages."
Economists within the Government have reportedly told President Fujimori that his tough and initially successful program to maintain discipline over Government spending, fight inflation, and privatize dozens of state-owned companies is unworkable without international aid.
American officials here say they are prepared to freeze aid until Peru demonstrates that its democratic changes have the support not only of the populace, but of many of the country's political groups.
While making Peru feel the pinch on the economic front, the United States is having less success in trying to broker a settlement that would bridge the gulf between the democratically elected President and the legislators he dismissed. American officials who have been holding discussions with members of the Fujimori Government and the ousted Congress said that with the swearing in of Maximo San Roman as a rival, but seemingly powerless, President, by the deposed legislators, polarization has increased. .
Political analysts also warn that while there is a willingness on the part of important members of Mr. Fujimori's Government to negotiate, the President himself is not known for backroom deals.
Of growing concern to economists here is that an increasingly isolated President Fujimori will have to look for substitutes for the lost economic aid. He has indicated that he may want to tap the $1.4 billion in reserves held by Peru's Central Bank, a step many fear will deflate the value of the Peruvian currency and rekindle inflation.
 
Economy Minister Quits
 The tough stand on the part of lending institutions and industrialized countries, forged by the United States,appears to have already brought about the resignation of Peru's Economy Minister, Carlos Bolona, and several of his top aides. They resigned after the visit of Mr. Bolona to Washington last week during which Adminstration officials told him there would be no new funds available to Peru.
"We've been able to shut down pretty much everything," an American said.
In a two-hour meeting with President Fujimori on Sunday night, Mr. Bolona reportedly outlined the bleak outlook.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru during a television broadcast on Tuesday as he announced his timetable for the restoration of constitutional rule. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PERU (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (99%); PERU (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; LEGISLATURES; CONSTITUTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES) MARGARET TUTWILER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



722 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: TV Critic's Notebook;
In a 'Lone Ranger' Role, Perot Builds an Audience

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Since Ross Perot notified Larry King in February that if his admirers could get him on the ballot in all 50 states he would run for President, the electorate has been able to watch the candidate presumptive on many channels. Those appearances have constituted his entire campaign so far.
What is it about him that seems to appeal to an audience of millions? What is it that accounts, as Mr. Perot puts it, for "all these everyday folks that make the world go round writing me in longhand?" 
 To begin with the image on the tube, Mr. Perot rides up as the richest and toughest outsider that side of the Pecos. In a year crowded with ambitious men professing to be the authentic lone stranger, outsidership has been somewhat devalued. But where Edmund G. Brown Jr. will take no more than $100 per contributor, the newcomer drops the ante to $5 and says he does not even cash those checks.
In this anything-you-can-do-I-can-do-cheaper competition, a billionaire can outpopulist anybody. And unlike career pols like George Bush or Bill Clinton, a fellow who has made it in the real world can present himself as someone who does not need to be President, psychologically illogical though that may be.
As Mr. King gently noted on his CNN program, Mr. Perot is no showboat. He is not built to Texas proportions, and his reedy voice cannot reverberate across the canyons; he looks more like Porter Hall than Gary Cooper. Morley Safer said he resembled a shoe salesman. The product he is selling remains fuzzy, but the can-do, will-do sales pitch on television is as sturdily American as the Norman Rockwell original on his office wall that he interpreted for "60 Minutes."
Viewers have also had plenty of opportunity to see action scenes from the movie about the rescue of two of his employees in Iran. Unfortunately, Burt Lancaster played not Mr. Perot but the colonel he hired to lead the raid; nevertheless, the boss can still oppose the Persian Gulf war without worrying about being written off as a weak-stomached wimp. You do not make billions without some notches on your guns.
Although his present targets -- "these guys with their alligator shoes and their briefcases running up and down the halls getting their special deal cut" -- have been much riddled this year, viewers seem impressed with Mr. Perot's marksmanship. "When Ross Perot says he'll do something, he'll do it!" a believer told the "Today" show.
What precisely would he do outside of cutting the military budget and cleansing the temples of Government of fraud, waste and alligator shoes is much less sharply defined than his figures of speech: "When you see a snake, you kill it; you don't form a committee." On "Good Morning America," Joan Lunden inquired what he had in mind for health and education. He answered that he would call on the people to start acting like owners of their country. End of interview. Is he speaking truth to power or commercials to the powerless?
Either way, you cannot saddle him with the pretension, common to candidates in the throes, that he has an instant solution to every problem, or to any problem. Mr. Perot's visit to the ABC News program "This Week" was a stand-off: He expressed annoyance with the questions; George Will indicated exasperation with the non-answers.
Last week Mr. Perot disclosed to Mr. King that he considered the Middle East, the environment and gun control serious matters and would get together the brightest and the best to deal with them.
At least one interviewer seems to have given up. On Tuesday's visit to "CBS This Morning," Mr. Perot was not asked a single question about his policies.
Still, on at least one dangerous issue, he has been as up front as any honest lawman. He told Katie Couric on "Today" that he would cut Social Security and Medicare for "people who don't need it." That category could use some refining, but it is a daring promise of the sort that helped Paul E. Tsongas lose Florida.
Like Mr. Tsongas and other departed Democrats, Mr. Perot says at every appearance that he wants Government to support business intelligently, the way America's international competitors do. But he puts the case more pungently than the rest: "I don't mean subsidize business. I don't mean burp them and diaper them. But I mean let's stop breaking their legs first thing every morning."
The muscular imagery gives this non-campaigner that special something. It is catching. One supporter on a news program called him "tough as pig iron." Mr. Perot lays on emblems of his manliness in good-old-boy lingo: "If we have a losing football team, we know what to do -- get a new coach, get a new quarterback." He compares the economy to a fighter on the ropes and dismisses quick fixes as "Novocain in the knee shots." (Sometimes the shootist misfires, as when he described his supporters as locusts moving across a wheat field. On the other hand, likening the national debt to the crazy aunt that nobody in the family talks about gets across his point.)
What sort of show is this? The stranger lopes into a town that needs help, but even with his endless supply of silver bullets he knows better than to try to clean up the place single handed. And although he has learned to direct his lines smack at the camera, he cannot fill the screen like Big John and send the baddies scurrying with a squint. Yes, "60 Minutes" caught or placed him in the saddle, but he still does not come across like a man on horseback.
So he makes do with tough talk on talk shows and with being just plain folks. This made-in-America billionaire trashes General Motors but, as noted on "60 Minutes," he drives a 1984 Oldsmobile. There he is, the man who can afford pheasant, digging into a slab of beef at his favorite barbecue joint.
He promises all interviewers that his first act as President would be to create an electronic town hall where every week or so "the owners of the country, the people," would have all sides of an issue served up to them and be able to tell Congress which slice they prefer. Barbecue politics.
In this season of mistrust of Washington, nurtured but not created by television, Ross Perot is riding the distaste for politics of any sort, not excepting representative government. Polls suggest that the welcoming response is less an expression of faith in them personally than a measure of the suspicion and disgust that insiders have earned.
This is television, and as the performance stales, the performer could easily fade into the sunset of last season's miniseries. In one of his less felicitous images, Mr. Perot asked his supporters to promise that "if we got lucky and climbed the cliff, you wouldn't climb out of the ring the day after election." Well, everyday folks that make the world go round may decide that climbing along with Ross Perot way up there amid those high winds of strong-man populism sounds a little unsettling.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot, right, appearing last week as a guest on the "Larry King Live" television show on CNN. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (53%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (53%); TEXAS, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TELEVISION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (67%); DESERT STORM (65%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); DEFENSE SPENDING (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JERRY BROWN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



723 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Mobil's Profit Falls 82%; Amerada Posts Deficit

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 22

 BODY:
The Mobil Corporation said today that earnings plunged 82 percent in the first quarter, while the Amerada Hess Corporation said it lost $23.4 million.
Recession, lower prices for crude oil and natural gas crimped profits for most global oil companies in the quarter, and analysts expect that the industry will report profit declines of 50 percent or more from operations in the period. The Amoco Corporation, for instance, said Tuesday that its operating income declined 52 percent. 
 Bryan Jacoboski, oil analyst at Paine Webber in New York, said global business conditions for the industry were improving modestly, except in Japan, where Mobil is a major refiner and marketer. "Demand is starting to recover in the U.S., and refining and marketing profit margins have started to improve," he said.
Mobil, the nation's second-largest oil company after the Exxon Corporation, is one of a few oil giants not likely to show rising profits in the current quarter, Mr. Jacoboski said.
But with prices for crude oil and natural gas higher than in the first quarter, most companies will post modest gains in operating income this quarter, he added. "The first quarter will prove to be the low point for the full year," he said.
The following is a breakdown of the first-quarter results for Mobil and Amerada Hess:
 
Mobil
 Net income was $127 million, or 28 cents a share, compared with $710 million, or $1.73 a share, in the 1991 quarter when the company reaped huge profits from surging prices for refined products in the Middle East and Europe during the Persian Gulf war.
Revenues fell 8 percent, to $15.2 billion from $16.6 billion.
Excluding one-time charges, Mobil's operating income fell 70 percent, to $213 million, or slightly better than analysts' estimates. Mobil's shares fell 50 cents today, to $61.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mobil, based in Fairfax, Va., said its results included a $75 million charge related to layoffs and other cutbacks in United States operations, plus a $30 million charge for a dry hole in Peru. One-time costs for cutbacks begun in Canadian operations were put at $11 million.
Mr. Murray said Mobil had scaled back its spending and would delay investments "until business conditions improve," a position adopted by most oil giants in recent weeks.
"Although the second quarter has opened with what appear to be early indications of an upturn in the U.S. economy and a recent firming of crude oil prices, it is still too early for substantial optimism," he said.
Operating earnings in oil-and-gas exploration and production fell to $232 million, from $371 million, mainly because of lower prices for oil and natural gas. In worldwide refining and marketing, profits fell to $52 million, from $390 million, because of weak demand in Asia, Europe and the United States.
The United States refining and marketing operations, hampered also by unusually warm winter weather, did not earn a profit. The chemicals unit earned $10 million, down from $92 million a year earlier.
 
Amerada Hess
 The first-quarter loss compared with a profit of $75.7 million, or 93 cents a share, in the first quarter last year. The 1992 figure included a gain of $13.1 million from a tax refund.
Revenues for the New York-based company fell 29 percent, to $1.45 billion from $2.03 billion.
A large East Coast refiner and marketer of gasoline, Amerada Hess lost $39.7 million in the quarter in its refining and marketing unit, compared with a loss of $43.6 million in the period a year ago.
Income from its oil-and-gas exploration and production unit was $29 million, down from $134 million a year earlier. Earnings for the 1991 quarter included a one-time gain of $46.2 million from a legal settlement.
Amerada Hess's stock fell $1.50 a share today, to $40, on the Big Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HES (NYSE) (94%); XOM (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOBIL CORP; AMERADA HESS CORP HESS CORP (94%); MOBIL CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); AMOCO CORP (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOBIL CORP; AMERADA HESS CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (72%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); DESERT STORM (64%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



724 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Environment;
Clinton Links Ecology Plans With Jobs

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 22

 BODY:
Acknowledging his shortcomings on environmental matters as Governor of Arkansas, Bill Clinton said today that states like his have suffered at the hands of Republican administrations that promoted "short-term tradeoffs between jobs and the environment."
In a speech timed to coincide with the annual observance of Earth Day, the Democratic Presidential candidate told an audience at Drexel University here that President Bush had been "reactive, rudderless and expedient" in addressing environmental concerns. 
 But Mr. Clinton's own record on environmental matters was quickly and sharply criticized by top aides to Mr. Bush and by the Arkansan's only remaining major rival in the Democratic race, former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California.
 
Higher Fuel Efficiency
 Mr. Clinton said that as President he would raise automobile fuel efficiency standards to 45 miles a gallon, from the current standard of 27.5 miles a gallon. He also said he would buy vehicles powered by natural gas for the Federal fleet and redirect spending away from nuclear power and toward renewable resources.
"I've spent the last decade, and then some, as Governor of a poor state, fighting to keep jobs and make up for lost time," Mr. Clinton said. "I know how much our people are hurting after the longest recession and slowest economic growth in the last 50 years.
"In the 80's, frankly, I also faced the old short-term tradeoffs between jobs and the environment, tradeoffs that were made tougher by Federal cutbacks in aid to clean up the environment and the lack of clear national policies in areas which allowed states to be played off against one another in jobs versus the environment conflicts," he said. "And in that context, I've made the choice, from time to time, for jobs because my state was a poor one without either enough jobs or enough Federal help to clean up the environment."
Mr. Clinton accused the Bush Administration of promoting the notion that economic growth and environmental protection cannot coexist. He said the White House Competitiveness Council, which is headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, "lets major polluters in through the back door at the White House to kill environmental regulations they don't like."
It is a charge that Mr. Clinton is familiar with. He has been criticized by some environmentalists in Arkansas for appointing industry representatives from major agricultural polluters like the state's chicken industry to sit on watchdog boards and to comply with state regulations only voluntarily.
David Gardiner, the legislative director of the Sierra Club, an environmental group, praised Mr. Clinton's proposals today in a statement distributed by Clinton campaign officials before the Governor delivered his speech.
In an interview later, Mr. Gardiner said the Sierra Club was aware of the problems some Arkansas environmentalists have had with Mr. Clinton.
"I don't think we're completely happy with Governor Clinton's record in Arkansas, but we have more substantial concerns with President Bush's record," he said.
The White House responded swiftly and angrily to Mr. Clinton's remarks. Marlin Fitzwater, the President's press secretary, said: "He does know pollution. He's got it, he's caused it, he's nurtured it and he's done nothing to clean it up."
Mr. Fitzwater cited a national study that showed Arkansas rated last in environmental protection and enforcement. The study, the 1991-1992 Green Index, was put out by the Institute for Southern Studies, a nonprofit research group based in Durham, N.C.
Michael Deland, chairman of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, said Mr. Clinton's "slippery attempt on Earth Day today to gloss over that deplorable record gives new meaning to the word 'oil slick.' "
The White House attack marked the first time that the Bush camp has taken Mr. Clinton on directly, and the ferocity and swiftness of the response was a clear hint that the Bush campaign intends to use environmental issues against the Governor if he is the Democratic nominee.
Mr. Brown, who came to Washington to deliver his Earth Day speech, was unstintingly critical of Mr. Clinton's environmental record. "For the Democratic Party to even think about putting Clinton at the top of the ticket is to invite an environmental backlash of no small dimension," Mr. Brown told a crowd on the Washington Mall.
 
Brown Points to His Record
 The former California Governor said Mr. Clinton has "one of the worst environmental records in the country." Mr. Brown cited his own commitment to energy conservation and environmental protection and asserted it was time for "Congress and the Democratic Party" to step up to the challenge.
Some Bush campaign strategists have begun speculating that Mr. Clinton's environmental record can be held against him by showcasing sites like the polluted White River region in northwestern Arkansas, where waste from millions of animal farms has tainted miles of streams.
Mr. Clinton, who served as Governor from 1978 to 1980 and again from 1982 until now, did not appoint a study group to address the problem until 1990.
The Governor challenged Mr. Bush to join him at the White River so he could show him what the problems were there. "If you really want to clean up the problem, I'll make a deal with you," Mr. Clinton said he would tell the President. "We'll outline the Federal and the state responsibility and we'll get results in cleaning up one of the most wonderful rivers in this country. Our people in Arkansas are tired of the politics of blame."
Recalling Mr. Bush's effort to turn the environmental debate against Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic nominee in 1988, Mr. Clinton asserted: "I will not let this become the Boston Harbor. So, Mr. President, if you want to place the blame, you're going to have to shoulder some of it, too."
 
National Standards Urged
 Mr. Clinton said that national standards must be put into effect to deal with pollution like the agricultural runoff that has created so much of his state's environmental problems.
The Governor said Mr. Bush was "single-handedly blocking" global efforts to address environmental concerns by hesitating over whether to attend the international conference on the environment, to be held in Rio de Janeiro in June.
Mr. Clinton called for "a new covenant for environmental progress" that would include debt-for-nature swaps, in which poorer nations would be allowed to satisfy debt by setting aside land for preservation. He also urged American participation in United Nations programs aimed at curbing global population growth.
Mr. Clinton also said that he would develop "revenue-neutral" incentives to encourage conservation and tax automobiles that are less fuel-efficient. And he said he would encourage further development of solar energy alternatives and pass a national bottle bill that would place a refundable fee on recyclable bottles, cans and other containers.
He did not say how much the measures he has proposed would cost taxpayers or the Federal Government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a speech timed to coincide with the annual observance of Earth Day, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, told an audience of students and faculty members at Drexel University in Philadelphia that President Bush had been "reactive, rudderless and expedient" in addressing environmental concerns. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 102 S.J.R. 119 EARTH DAY (90%); 102 P.L. 34 EARTH DAY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DREXEL UNIVERSITY (83%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL UNIVERSITY (83%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (74%); NATURAL GAS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POULTRY (60%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JERRY BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



725 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: New England Now Focus of Bank Inquiry

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Federal authorities are investigating more than 230 cases of suspected banking fraud in New England that could amount to more than $1 billion, shifting the chief focus of their banking inquiries from the Southwest.
Officers of financial institutions are suspected in some cases, while the institutions were the victims of outsiders in other cases, the authorities said. 
 Thomas A. Hughes, the special agent in charge of the Boston office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said in an interview today that the number of cases involving allegations of large-scale fraud has increased sharply in the last two years at financial institutions in New England.
 
'We Are Talking About Fraud'
 The dimensions of the New England investigations were first reported by The Boston Globe today, and Mr. Hughes told the newspaper: "We're not talking about business ethics here. We are talking about fraud."
Nearly all the cases reportedly involve real estate, including false loan applications, hidden second mortgages and straw borrowers who purportedly received kickbacks for the use of their names in getting loans for others.
John C. Eckenrode, a supervisory F.B.I. agent, told The Globe, "The numbers are astounding -- the number of cases, the amount of lost money and the exposure -- and it's all tied to real estate speculation."
In the interview today, Mr. Hughes said, "We saw the beginnings of the problem in the early 1990's," prompting the Justice Department to augment its investigative task force in New England. "Clearly, at that time, the caseload of significant fraud was mushrooming," he said.
The Boston office is responsible for investigations in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Maine, and is looking into fraud allegations involving institutions in all of those states.
Other law-enforcement officials emphasized that though the New England cases of financial fraud were serious and extensive, they were unlikely to ever reach the scale uncovered in the Southwest.
"The numbers don't approach anything like what you had in Dallas," said Laurence Urgenson of the Justice Department's criminal division. "You had single institutions in which losses are larger than what is expected in New England."
For example, in the case of Vernon Savings Association of Texas alone, losses totaled to $1.3 billion, Federal regulators said.
But Mr. Hughes said in today's interview that the Boston office currently ranked second only to Los Angeles in the volume of financial fraud cases currently under investigation with losses greater than $1 million. Many of the big cases resulting from the Southwest investigations have already been prosecuted.
In explaining why the widespread fraud that was apparent in the Southwest and West by the late 1980's is only now emerging in New England, Mr. Hughes cited the stress of the recent economic decline, along with a recent drop in real estate prices, as possible factors in bringing the fraud into the open.
The New England cases are unlike those in the Southwest, which often involved freewheeling savings and loan operators and high-risk investments. "The ratio of banks to savings and loans is different," Mr. Urgenson said. "The prototypical high-flying buccaneers are not anywhere near as prevalent in New England."
Mr. Hughes said there were 153 cases currently under investigation by the Boston office involving losses of more than $100,000, compared with 68 such cases in January 1990. In addition, there are 79 cases currently under investigation involving losses of $1 million, compared with 58 such cases in January 1991.
Mr. Urgenson added that the extent of the problem took longer to emerge in New England because fewer institutions were as financially depleted as those in the Southwest, and regulatory agencies generally exerted greater scrutiny over their activities.
Mr. Hughes said the heavy volume of cases led Federal authorities to establish a profile of transactions to isolate potentially fraudulent transactions. He said loans to watch included those for large condominium projects, all financing obtained from 1983 to 1989, loans at or near default, loans involving borrowers who appeared not to meet eligibility requirements and loans in which there was a small or no down payment.
Criminal fraud is suspected to have played a factor in the collapse of a increasing number of New England financial institutions, Mr. Hughes said. The number of failures rose from three in 1990 to 20 at present.
The Globe reported that a number of the cases under investigation were similar to one involving U.S. Funding of America, a now-closed mortgage brokerage and lending company in Massachusetts. A Federal grand jury last week indicted 15 people on charges of defrauding nearly 40 lending institutions about $20 million from from 1985 to to 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) BOSTON GLOBE (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ENGLAND STATES (US) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; KICKBACKS INVESTIGATIONS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); ETHICS (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); SECOND MORTGAGES (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



726 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Tuition at SUNY to Rise $500; Increase Is the Third in 2 Years

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 22

 BODY:
Trustees of the State University of New York today approved the system's third tuition increase in the last two years, raising the annual charge for attending a four-year campus to $2,650 -- nearly twice what students had to pay in September 1990.
The $500 increase, which will take effect in the fall, continues the erratic tuition changes for the 400,000 students in the SUNY system. Flush fiscal years and student pressure had kept the tuition frozen at $1,350 for seven years, from 1983 to 1990, but the gravity of New York's budget troubles have more recently caused tuition to skyrocket. Tuition went to $1,650 in January of 1991 and to $2,150 last fall. 
 Many other state university systems, meanwhile, have imposed annual increases pegged to inflation that ruled out the years of zero increases that SUNY students enjoyed, but also prevented the huge tuition increases they have been hit with in the last two years.
The tuition is separate from room, board and other fees, which add thousands of dollars to a student's costs.
 
Middle-Income Concerns
 University officials said today that they expected that students in families making between $30,000 and $60,000 a year would be hit hardest by the increase because students below that scale would be eligible for more financial aid while those above it would probably be able to afford it.
"The people who are getting hurt are very definitely those in the lower middle-income bracket," said Patrick Hunt, the associate vice chancellor for university relations.
Overall, SUNY, which previously had one of the lowest tuition rates of any public university system in the country, would now edge just above the national average of $2,263 with the increase, according to figures compiled by the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges in Washington.
Last week, the City University of New York announced an unprecedented plan to charge higher rates for incoming freshmen this fall with the promise that they can attend their final semester before graduation free. But the SUNY trustees rejected any move to vary tuition among its undergraduate students according to their grade level.
 
Community College Cap
 But top SUNY officials have repeatedly expressed interest in gaining authority from the Legislature to set different tuition rates among the system's 29 state-operated four-year campuses. Chancellor D. Bruce Johnstone of SUNY reiterated today that he would be interested in such a plan, under which students at the full-fledged "university centers" in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook would probably pay more than those at four-year colleges.
Nearly every other state in the nation, including California, Texas, Florida and Michigan, already set different rates according to the type of campus. But in New York it cannot be done without the approval of the Legislature, which has so far balked at such a plan partly out of lawmakers' concerns that it could aggravate perceptions that some campuses were of a higher quality than others.
In a separate action, the trustees set a new annual tuition cap of $2,100 for the system's 30 community colleges, most of which offer two-year degrees and whose tuition rates, other than the cap, are set by local boards.
Although Gov. Mario M. Cuomo would most likely be a leading player in any fight here over the variable tuition plans, he has so far steered clear of either endorsing or rejecting them, arguing that it is up to the university officials to make the case for the plans.
Mr. Cuomo proposed steep cuts in both the SUNY and CUNY budgets this year and then gave the university boards the authority to offset them partly with tuition increases. Technically, the decision on the increases is then solely up to the boards, but both the Governor and the Legislature tend to bear the brunt of student ill-will when tuition rises.
The only person on the 13-member SUNY board to vote against the tuition increase was its student member, Randy Campbell, who attends the Stony Brook campus. He said a vote in favor would send a signal that university officials tolerated the budget cuts that state leaders have forced on them in the last few years.
The plan approved today is not final because a public comment period is required under state law, but there was virtually no expectation that the SUNY board would vote to reverse itself in its second vote in July.
Among other increases, the tuition rate for out-of-state students would rise by $800 to $6,550 a year for undergraduates and $7,316 for graduate students.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tuition: A Decade of Increases" shows annual tuition for in-state students at Rutgers, UCon, SUNY, and CUNY beginning in fall of the years spanning 1982 through 1992. Room and board is not included. (Source: State Universities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SUNY (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY) SUNRISE BANCORP INC (91%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (SUNY) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TUITION; FINANCES TUITION FEES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); BUDGETS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



727 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Rush-Hour Subway Cuts Reversed by M.T.A. Chief

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority yesterday scuttled plans to reduce rush-hour service on nine subway lines because of declining ridership. He urged transit officials instead to work aggressively to entice more people to ride the subway.
The action of the chairman, Peter E. Stangl, followed several weeks of intense lobbying against the service reductions by consumer advocates, Mayor David N. Dinkins and dozens of state legislators. They had argued that to reduce service now would increase crowding on rush-hour trains and ultimately drive more riders away from the subway. 
 The plan would have eliminated 43 trains during the morning and evening rush hours and 13 trains at other times. The Transit Authority, the M.T.A. subsidiary that runs the city subway and buses, estimated that the cuts would save $2.9 million a year.
Mr. Stangl had hinted at his opposition last month at a meeting of the M.T.A. board, saying that the notion of trimming rush-hour service "cuts to the heart of what we do."
 
Plaudits of Consumer Groups
 Consumer advocates praised his decision. "Peter Stangl wasn't railroaded into this," said Gene Russianoff, staff attorney of the Straphangers Campaign, whose group was among at least three riders' organizations that had pushed Mr. Stangl to kill the plan. "He deserves the reputation that he has as a service-oriented transit official."
In his previous job as head of the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, another M.T.A. division, Mr. Stangl earned high marks for increasing ridership through innovative marketing and scheduling strategies.
The Transit Authority's plan, which would have taken effect in July, was described by proponents as a limited reduction on sections of some of the lines with the most significant declines in ridership: the A, B, C, D, F, J, N, Q and R lines. Overall, ridership has declined 7.7 percent since 1989.
Alan F. Kiepper, the president of the Transit Authority, had described the cuts as minor, saying they would add only one or two minutes to the wait for trains during rush hour. Mr. Kiepper contended that, under service guidelines approved five years ago by the M.T.A. board, transit officials had to trim service on lines that were underutilized. He said the adjustments would make the subway more efficient and would save the financially strapped system money.
 
Moratorium on Cuts
 But opponents said the service cuts -- the first rush-hour reductions on a broad swath of lines in more than a decade -- would set off a spiral of decline. A loss of riders would lead to fewer trains, which would lead in turn to an additional loss of riders, they said.
Mr. Stangl eventually sided with the opponents. He said he had asked Mr. Kiepper to withdraw the plan because rush-hour service is a vital part of the subway's mission, and because eliminating trains might cause more riders to forsake the system.
Mr. Stangl also called for a three-month moratorium on all cuts in subway and bus service that are in response to declining ridership.
Mr. Stangl said in an interview that he had asked the Transit Authority "to find ways to increase ridership rather than just passively adjusting service downward as the economy drives our ridership down."
"I have a bit of a philosophic problem when we are not aggressively trying to increase ridership," Mr. Stangl said. "I said: 'Let's slow this down. Let's take a deep breath. Let's see if rather than decreasing service maybe we can target a line and increase service a little bit.' "
 
'Glare of Publicity'
 Even though the proposed cuts were within M.T.A. guidelines, Mr. Stangl said he had rejected them because the authority's market research "suggests that frequency of service during the rush hour is an important issue in whether people use our service."
Mr. Stangl made public his decision in a news release, just a day before a scheduled meeting of the M.T.A. board. Although the service reductions did not require approval of the board, the four members appointed by the Mayor had said they would seek a moratorium on the cuts. Several opponents of the Transit Authority's plan said yesterday that they were uncertain whether they would have mustered enough votes on the board to approve the moratorium.
Andrew Albert, the chairman of the Transit Authority Advisory Council, an independent riders' group, said he thought Mr. Stangl decided to act on his own to prevent a divisive struggle at the M.T.A. board. "I think he knew there was going to be a battle, and I think he knew that the glare of publicity would be on this," Mr. Albert said.
"This is a victory for the riders," he added.
Mr. Stangl said there had been many positive developments in the subway system, including a decline in serious crime and greater reliability in service. He said he wanted the Transit Authority to find creative ways to build on those improvements -- through scheduling and marketing -- to entice more people into the subway. "Maybe we will fail," Mr. Stangl said, "but we've got to try."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) AB C COMMUNICATIONS CORP (65%); TRANSIT AUTHORITY ADVISORY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) TRANSIT AUTHORITY ADVISORY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; SCHEDULES AND TIMETABLES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; STANGL, PETER E PETER E STANGL (95%); ALAN F KIEPPER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



728 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Meeting On Trade A Failure

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
President Bush and European Community leaders failed today to resolve their differences in global talks on reducing trade barriers, making it much less likely that an overall deal can be concluded this year.
Even last-minute efforts to find a face-saving compromise on a minor issue were unsuccessful, leaving the leaders here able only to pledge yet again their political commitment to continued negotiations and an eventual compromise. Previous meetings between the President and various foreign heads of state have produced similar declarations, as have the last two annual economic summit meetings of the leaders of the Group of Seven major industrial nations. 
 Countries that conduct nine-tenths of the world's trade have been engaged for five years in talks to broaden the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, a 103-nation pact setting rules for trade, mostly in manufactured goods.
 
Freer Trade Is the Goal
 The goal of the talks is to lower worldwide tariffs on manufactures, to limit countries' ability to restrict imports unilaterally and to apply free-trade rules to agriculture and services like investment banking and accounting. But progress in all areas has nearly stopped because the United States has been insisting unsuccessfully that the European Community severely prune its sprawling system of farm subsidies.
The continued stalemate in the GATT talks is forcing American policy makers to pay increased attention to the proposed addition of Mexico to the current free-trade area with Canada.
But those talks are also moving slowly, and trade frictions with Canada are growing. They were worsened today with a Canadian Government decision that American carpets were being dumped at unfairly low prices. [Page D5.]
American proponents of broadening the GATT talks say that a successful deal would allow American farmers and businesses to sell more abroad, creating jobs and wealth in the United States. The Bush Administration contends that its proposals, if accepted by other nations, would leave the average American family of four better off by $17,000 after 10 years.
But critics say that the United States' ability to restrict imports that hurt domestic industries would be hampered and that under a new pact American laws to protect public health and the environment might be weakened.
 
Summit Meeting in July
 Jacques Delors, the president of the European Community's executive commission, and Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, said they now hoped a breakthrough on agriculture might come before the next economic summit meeting, scheduled for July in Munich. But they cautioned that no deadline had been set. "All parties would like it to occur, but nothing happens but disappointment if it does not occur," Mrs. Hills said.
Today's session was the latest semiannual summit meeting of European and American leaders, and its theme was the GATT talks, although troubles in Yugoslavia, the former Soviet republics and Angola were also discussed. Officials said today that they had scheduled no further trade meetings. Mrs. Hills said the most likely next step would be a meeting by mid-level officials on technical issues, followed by a meeting between her and senior European officials.
Up to five months of negotiations with other countries are expected to be needed even if the United States and the community can settle their dispute, making it virtually certain that no overall deal will be struck before the November elections.
 
Four Troublesome Issues
 The failure today may signal troubled trade relations between the United States and Western Europe, as four simmering issues come to a boil:
*American steel producers are filing anti-subsidy trade cases with the Commerce Department against their European rivals. An international attempt to limit government subsidies collapsed last month in Geneva.
*A draft trans-Atlantic pact to limit commercial aircraft subsidies is unraveling.
*The United States may receive international permission next week to retaliate against European soybean industry subsidies.
*The Administration has set aside money to step up its farm export subsidies in competition with Europe's.
President Bush told reporters on the South Lawn of the White House that some "new ideas" had been presented today, without providing any details. But Mr. Delors, who was with the President on the lawn, said later at a newsconference that the proposals on both sides were "modest."
Mrs. Hills said later that the two sides had simply reviewed ways to combine existing offers.
In private, senior Administration officials were caustic about the European proposals. "Their proposals were so modest, they were feeble, so they weren't even worth discussing," one top official said.
 
Wide Difference on Subsidies
 The official said that the European Community had asked that its tonnage of subsidized exports be reduced by only 18 percent in the coming years, in contrast to the 24 percent proposed by Arthur Dunkel, the director general of the GATT. The United States, which originally sought a 100 percent reduction, then a 90 percent cut, and then a one-third cut, is not going to settle for 18 percent, the senior American official said.
Thomas Niles, the Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian affairs, blamed the European Community for the failure of the talks. He said the community lacked a unified bargaining position on agriculture and was locked in its own internal debate over how to change its farm subsidy programs to meet budgetary pressures.
Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal, whose country currently holds the presidency of the European Community, denied that. "At this very moment, I think the community on the main issues is not divided," he said.
 
Complaint With U.S. on Services
 The European Community has been pushing for the last two months to link agriculture to services, and then blame the United States for seeking broad exemptions from free-trade rules for its telecommunications, banking, maritime and aviation industries. But European officials were circumspect today about blaming the United States. They even said that services were not discussed in today's meetings.
Administration officials insisted that the November elections were not blocking the United States from considering possible compromises, and European officials have not accused their American counterparts of playing politics with the negotiations.
But while President Bush says he remains personally committed to the negotiations and has made many telephone calls to foreign heads of state in the last six months to push them along, Republican strategists have told Mrs. Hills repeatedly that a poor deal could antagonize large blocs of voters in key states. The steel industry in Pennsylvania, for example, has lost money and jobs because of imports.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush meet yesterday with Jacques Delors, left, president of the European Community's executive commission, and Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal to discuss stalemated global trade talks. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ANIBAL CAVACO SILVA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



729 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Skyscraper Agreement

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The enormous 1585 Broadway office tower in Manhattan's theater district, which has been suspended in a state of near-completion while its sole tenant battled the developer, may be finished soon if a settlement announced yesterday goes through.
Under the settlement, the chief lenders would finance the final round of construction at the 42-story skyscraper between West 47th and West 48th Streets, and the tenant, the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn would begin paying rent, which it has withheld since October. 
 "Important obstacles have been removed to the leasing of the unoccupied space in the building," Proskauer said in a statement. The firm occupies 365,000 square feet of the 1.3 million-square-foot tower. The settlement would also release Proskauer from a requirement to take two more floors in addition to the 11 floors it now occupies.
Four months ago, the development partnership, 1585 Broadway Associates, which is controlled by David S. Solomon, the New York developer, filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
The additional financing is to come from the principal mortgage lenders: the New York branch of the Swiss Bank Corporation; the New York branch of the Bank of Montreal, and the Grand Cayman Islands branch of the Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Because the building is unfinished, Proskauer sued the developers and the lenders earlier this year, saying that neither Mr. Solomon nor the banks were putting enough money into the building.
A list of the work that is needed to complete the building is being prepared, so there is no price tag yet.
If the settlement is approved by the Federal Bankruptcy Court, Proskauer will begin paying rent next month.
In an interview in January, Herbert T. Weinstein, a partner at Proskauer, cited conditions at 1585 Broadway that included an incomplete facade, unfinished paving, unreliable elevators and unwashed windows.
But yesterday, the chairman of Proskauer, Stanley Komaroff, said that with the settlement, the building would become a "showcase facility which can serve our law firm, future tenants and the Times Square area well."
Mr. Solomon said that "we are working through" the reorganization that began with the bankruptcy filing. Two weeks ago, he announced that lenders, led by Citibank, had agreed to a debt reorganization plan for the 750 Seventh Avenue tower at West 49th Street. That building has no office tenants, though Caroline's Comedy Club opened there last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (82%); BMO (NYSE) (82%); TD (TSX) (67%); TD (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PROSKAUER ROSE GOETZ & MENDELSOHN PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (94%); BANK OF MONTREAL (82%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (67%); NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROSKAUER ROSE GOETZ & MENDELSOHN NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; CREDIT; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); THEATER (78%); LAWYERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W DAVID S SOLOMON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



730 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Man Set on Fire; 3 Bronx Youths Are Held

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

 BODY:
Three Bronx teen-agers, overheard laughing as one shouted, "We're going to kill somebody tonight," set a homeless man on fire in a subway stairwell in lower Manhattan early yesterday, the transit police said.
But the sleeping 60-year-old victim escaped injury because of two subway riders who put out the fire and then led the transit police to the suspects. 
 The assault yesterday, shortly before 1 A.M. in the J line station at Fulton and Nassau Streets, was the seventh incident since Jan. 26 in the subway system in which homeless people have been set on fire. Of eight victims to date, one man has died. There have been two arrests in one of the other cases.
 
Viewed as Copycat Crimes
 The police believe that only two of the attacks might have been committed by the same people, said a transit police spokesman, Albert O'Leary. But transit officials and an advocate for the homeless said they thought that most of the incidents were copycat crimes, rather than a trend of violence against homeless people.
It was unclear what prompted the most recent attack, but Detective Sgt. Stuart Friedman of the transit police major case squad said, "The way it occurred and the way the individuals who have been arrested explained it to us, at this time it looks like something they thought to be fun or an opportunity-type thing. We don't think they are involved in any other incidents."
The three suspects, Gregory Castro, 16, of 1050 Carroll Place, Timothy Porter, 16, of 1695 Hoe Avenue, and Leonard Stewart, 17, of 1020 Grand Concourse, were portrayed yesterday by relatives and friends as troubled but not especially bad young men who nevertheless could be led into wrongdoing by others. But they found it difficult to believe the youths could have been involved in such a vicious act.
At first, the youths pretended to be police officers, rousting the sleeping homeless and ordering them to get moving, Mr. O'Leary said. But then one of the youths, who was not identified, began pouring the contents of a rum bottle on two of the prostrate men and put a match to one, identified as Jose Ramirez.
 
Saved by Intervention
 Mr. O'Leary said that if not for the intervention of William Lee, 31, and Hector Albizu, 43, both of Manhattan, who were entering the station at that moment, Mr. Ramirez could have been seriously injured.
Mr. Lee, a deliveryman for a Chinatown foods company, said he and Mr. Albizu, an unemployed handyman, were heading home after a night at the South Street Seaport, chatting by coincidence about crime in the subways, when they saw the youths harassing four homeless people in the stairwell.
"They were laughing," Mr. Lee said. "They were laughing and saying, 'We're going to kill somebody tonight.' "
When the fire erupted on the blanket of one man, the two men raced to the victim's side. Mr. Albizu tried to smother the fire with his body and hands while Mr. Lee yelled for him to wake up.
"I was thinking about the person inside the blanket," Mr. Albizu said. "It's a life, you know."
Then the youths "ran right upstairs and we just shot right behind them," Mr. Lee said. The two men stopped a passing transit police car and told Officers Kathleen Iburg and Scott Roberts what had happened. The officers arrested the three suspects about a block away. Among the charges they face is attempted murder.
Peter Smith, president of the Partnership for the Homeless, said he was alarmed by the number of assaults in so short a period but called it an apparent "copycat pattern."
Mr. Stewart's grandmother, Ruth Singletary, a minister of the World Evangelical Church on Third Avenue in the Bronx, said his father lived in Mexico and his mother was a secretary. Speaking in her apartment, decorated with religious artifacts, in a building with a doorman, she said Mr. Stewart was "a good kid" who sang at her church in a gospel group and played the drums but had dropped out of school.
After his arrest, Mrs. Singletary talked to him by telephone. "He just said he was with the other guys who did it," she said.
She added, "I don't believe he would set the fire."
At Mr. Castro's apartment, where he lives with his grandmother and an extended family of about 10 people, including a younger sister and two brothers, his uncle, Reimundo Castro, 29, said, "He's a very kind fellow, but he's almost like walking dynamite."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Lee, left, and Hector Albizu, both of Manhattan, came to the aid of a homeless man who was set on fire yesterday by three Bronx teen-agers in the J line subway station at Fulton and Nassau Streets. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ASSAULTS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS ; SUBWAYS HOMELESSNESS (92%); ARSON (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); FIRES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); JUVENILE CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE; CASTRO, GREGORY; PORTER, TIMOTHY; STEWART, LEONARD; RAMIREZ, JOSE; LEE, WILLIAM ; ALBIZU, HECTOR MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



731 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Vanguard in the Battle for Dwindling Open Space;
A Growing Cadre of Private Land Trusts Takes On Developers, and Politicians Too

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Conn.

 BODY:
In the next few days, 81 acres of shady woods and sunny meadows near the center of this tranquil village will be turned over to the local land trust, to be kept as it is -- without houses, apartments or office buildings -- for all time.
Barbara Quigley, who works at her family's bookstore here and looks with horror at the development that surged in nearby Southbury several years ago, praises the efforts of the land trust, a private, nonprofit preservation effort. "We're a small town," she said, "and we want to stay a small town." 
 Across Connecticut, and across the nation, such sentiments have led to the formation of hundreds of land trusts. There are now 900 in the United States, twice as many as a decade ago. Most of the growth has taken place in the last five years and has been concentrated in the densely populated Northeast, said Jean Hocker, president of the Land Trust Alliance, based in Washington, D.C.
Land trusts hold about 2.7 million acres nationwide, Ms. Hocker said. They have a broader mandate than organizations like the Nature Conservancy, a national group that protects the habitats of rare and endangered species, because the land trusts can set aside land for recreational or esthetic purposes as well.
But the 90's may turn out to be a time of reckoning for land trusts. While most have charters stating that their purpose is to preserve land in its natural state, critics contend that they can produce less uplifting results as well. More than once, land trusts have been accused of trying to prevent development of unwanted housing -- low-income and otherwise -- by buying up land.
And in a battered economy, keeping land open instead of developing it to increase the tax base is not always popular with local governments.
"You can't substitute the work of land trusts for the work of communities deciding what they want to be when they grow up," said Robert Pirani, director of environmental projects for the Regional Plan Association in New York, who nevertheless thinks land trusts have been "a real success story in American policy."
"Construction of affordable housing is an issue in communities throughout the region," he said, "and land trusts have to understand their responsibilities, in terms of those societal needs."
Others see potential for abuse. "It's a perfect foil for anti-moderate-income housing," said Robert A. Wieboldt, executive vice president of the New York State Builders Association, a lobbying group based in Albany. "It's sort of a restrictive zoning tool."
 
Competing Priorities
 Even land-trust officials see possibilities for conflict.
"Priorities are in competition," said Martin Rosen, president of the Trust for Public Land, a national organization based in San Francisco. "There's a lot of anxiety these days: Are we taking land off the tax rolls? What's going to happen to jobs, to housing?"
With 114 land trusts, Connecticut has more than any other state except Massachusetts, with 116. Some, like the Bethlehem Land Trust, are relatively new, while others date to the early part of the century. Elsewhere in the region, New Jersey has 20 land trusts and New York has 64, according to the Land Trust Alliance.
The groups, which get most of their funds from private contributions, vary widely in their approaches. Some own the land they manage, after receiving it as a donation or purchasing it. Others oversee conservation easements, which means someone else holds title to the property but has agreed, in writing, to leave it in its natural state. Often the trusts are based in individual towns, although some larger ones, like the Trust for Public Land, operate on a national scale.
The groups have attracted wide popular support. As environmental sensitivity grows, so does an awareness that open space is limited and should be preserved, experts say.
But land trusts can also take actions that alienate public officials and undercut town planning. In the mid-1980's, for example, officials in Mamakating, N.Y., saw conservationists outmaneuver developers planning to build luxury condominiums.
 
'Subterfuge' Is Charged
 Quietly, using a purchase agent known as a nominee, the Open Space Institute, a large land trust based in Ossining, N.Y., bought small parcels totaling about 2,000 acres in the Shawangunk Mountains, some of which had been marked by the owners for development. The trust then sold the land to the state in 1986 for parkland. As a result, the town lost the tax dollars the condominiums would have brought in, said Dennis L. Greenwald, the Town Supervisor at the time of the deal, who retired from government in December.
"It's a conspiracy," said Mr. Greenwald, now a pharmacist in Middletown, N.Y., who is still fuming about the tactics used by the land trust and the state. "They buy it in subterfuge, with front men, private corporations, and shills."
Under the original plan, he said, the town would have had its taxes and the condominium development would still have preserved the majority of the land "as God left it."
Peter R. Borrelli, vice president of the Open Space Institute, said that if the land trust had tried to buy the land openly, it would never have been able to put together the acreage that went to the state. "Because of the hostility in the area, decisions were made to do this quietly and with a nominee," he said, adding that the technique is used by others, including the Federal Government.
"This action frustrated development," he added, "and therefore frustrated some people who wanted to see the ridgetop developed."
Since then, however, the Open Space Institute has decided not to use nominees except under very specific circumstances, Mr. Borrelli said. "It's not a practice that has been outlawed," he said. "But its widespread use is probably not good public policy. It runs against the grain of public disclosure."
 
Paying Taxes
 Another issue facing land trusts is how to maintain the property they control. The 81-acre parcel in Bethlehem was donated by the estate of a resident, Caroline Ferriday, and includes a $25,000 endowment for upkeep. At first the land was managed by a local chapter of the Nature Conservancy, but because the property harbored no species that were at risk, the Conservancy is turning the land over to the Bethlehem Land Trust, said Carolie Evans, director of land protection for the Nature Conservancy in Connecticut.
A large expanse of land can be more cost-efficient to keep up than several small plots, especially in rural areas, experts say. However, in urban neighborhoods, even a small plot is welcome because open space is so rare. A few groups, known as community land trusts, accept buildings, with the intention of providing affordable housing.
Some land trusts pay taxes on their land, although many are exempt, Ms. Hocker said, depending on the local jurisdiction. A few land trusts pay taxes even though they are not required to, she said, "just to build good will."
What is behind the boom in land trusts? "Generally, they are a group of citizens who really care about their community, what it looks like," Ms. Evans said. "They see certain places they'd like to see protected, and realize that the Federal and state system is not going to do it for them, and neither is the town, so they should do it for themselves."
There is also several hundred million dollars in Federal aid available to private land trusts every year, through the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to acquire open space, Mr. Rosen said.
 
Lack of Planning
 But the real force behind the formation of so many land trusts may be that local planning boards have failed to adequately regulate development, Mr. Borrelli said.
"What should be driving the development equation is good planning and good design and meeting the needs of a growing population," he said. "That will lead to consumption of less open space.
"We've been saying, 'Let's save all the open space, and the social benefit will come from that,' " he said. "But it hasn't happened that way."
Officials of land trusts say they are not universally opposed to development, and in fact often invite local developers to serve on their boards. Still, the question of when land is best left open remains a point of argument among the trusts, the developers and local governments.
 
Taxes and Services
 "We're looking at the property-tax impact of open space versus development," said Tom Whyatt, executive director of the three-year-old Westchester Land Trust, which tries to acquire buildings as well as open space. "In rural areas, open space pays more in property tax than it costs in services, like garbage collection and schools. Residential development costs more in town services than it pays in taxes.
"We hope to analyze this town by town," he said. "I believe we're going to show that open space is a friendly use of land, on a property-tax basis."
Mr. Wieboldt of the builders association sees it differently. "There's a legitimate market need, and a legitimate open-space need," he said. Developing one corner of a large parcel and leaving the rest as open space can serve both purposes, he contended.
"You can keep farmers in the area and keep the characteristics of the area," he said. "But you can't let it happen to the total detriment of folks' right to live in certain areas."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Compare and Contrast: Preserving the Land"

 	 	 	 		New York	New Jersey	Connecticut	Acres in trust	70,956	62,590	35,941	Total acres	30.2 million	4.7 million	3.1 million	Percent in trust	0.23%	1.32%	1.13%	
 
(Source: Land Trust Alliance) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: LAND USE POLICIES TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); ZONING (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LOBBYING (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); BOOKSTORES (57%); POPULATION DENSITY (56%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



732 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Trims Global Growth Forecast

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund sharply reduced its forecast for the world economy today, saying growth would be only a sluggish 1.4 percent this year.
Last October the I.M.F. predicted 2.7 percent growth for 1992. Fund officials said today that they cut that forecast largely because the United States had taken longer than expected to begin its climb from recession. 
 The fund said the world's economy was gathering steam, however, and would grow by a healthy 3.6 percent next year.
Although the growth in most of the major industrial countries has stumbled, the report did not forecast a recession for the industrial world as a whole. It predicted the industrial countries would grow 1.8 percent this year and 3.3 percent next year.
 
Growth of 2.3% Seen for U.S.
 In its World Economic Outlook report, the I.M.F. said the American economy was beginning to turn up. It forecast that the nation's output would grow by 2.3 percent from the fourth quarter of 1991 to this year's fourth quarter. In a news conference today, Michael Mussa, the fund's chief economist, added that he would not be surprised if the nation's economy grew by 3 percent for the year as whole.
The report said it would be unwise for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates further because the recovery appeared to be taking hold. "Barring evidence that growth continues to falter, a further significant reduction of interest rates does not seem warranted in the United States," the report said.
 
Concerns About Inflation
 The I.M.F. said the decline in interest rates already in place should produce the long-awaited strengthening of activity.
Worried that further monetary easing could ultimately overstimulate the economy, the report said that underlying inflation in the United States "still appears to be above long-term objectives." The report said consumer prices would rise 3.1 percent both this year and next year, compared with 4.2 percent inflation last year.
"The significant decline in short-term interest rates in North America and Japan -- made possible by the continued moderation of inflation -- is expected to contribute to a strengthening of growth during 1992," the report said. But it noted that long-term rates remained high, partly because of the huge American budget deficit.
Mr. Mussa said that the construction slump and military spending reductions meant the American economy would not rebound at the 5 percent or 6 percent rate generally seen in the first year after other post-World War II recessions.
 
Outlook for Japan and Europe
 The report said Japan's economy would grow by 3.2 percent from fourth quarter to fourth quarter, the same as the year before, but would rise to 3.9 percent next year.
It said Japan's economy had slowed recently because growth in fixed investment fell to 3.5 percent this year, compared with more than 10 percent a year in the late 1980's. The report said that industrial output declined in the first two months of this year but that a pickup in government spending would help spur Japan's economy.
The I.M.F. predicted continued weak growth in Europe, as Germany's high interest rates drag down the Continent. In pointed language, the report urged Germany to move more aggressively to reduce its budget deficit, which has been caused largely by efforts to help eastern Germany. The nation's central bank has pushed up interest rates to slow the inflationary pressures fueled by the massive spending.
Most other European countries have raised their rates along with Germany to keep their currencies from falling against the German mark. "For most European countries the spillover has restrained demand when activity was already generally quite weak, and when inflation was abating," the report said.
 
Former Soviet Bloc
 The report said Eastern Europe's economy was beginning to bottom out, but added that the former Soviet Union would probably suffer further output declines.
For Eastern Europe, the report projects a 1 percent drop in output this year, but growth of 3.7 percent next year. That follows a plunge in production of 16.6 percent last year. Inflation in the region is forecast at 95 percent this year, from 135 percent last year.
For the former Soviet Union, the report sees a decline in production of 17.5 percent this year, following a plunge of 17 percent in 1991. The report also sees inflation of 1,000 percent in the former Soviet Union this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



733 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Canada Puts Duty on Rugs From the U.S.

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 22

 BODY:
In addition to beer, automobiles, lumber and magnesium, a new issue is adding to trade tensions between the United States and Canada: carpets.
Finding that American carpet companies are "dumping" their goods in Canada at unfairly low prices, the Ottawa Government has just imposed a duty averaging 12 percent on virtually all American carpets shipped here. The trade tensions are causing new strains in the two countries' relationship. 
 United States carpet sales to Canada last year were $425 million, or 41 percent of the market, up from 8 percent in 1988.
 
U.S. Rationale Resembles Japan's
 But the American industry, borrowing a leaf from what Japanese auto makers have been telling their American counterparts for years, insists that the reason for the increased sales is not unfair trade but greater efficiency.
Also echoing Japanese arguments, the American industry says the Canadian Government decision, which has the effect of raising carpet prices in Canada, will harm consumers.
"The carpet industry is undergoing a global revolution," said Ronald E. VanGelderen, president of the United States Carpet and Rug Institute in Dalton, Ga., seat of 60 percent of the American industry.
"The U.S. industry has undergone that revolution over the past 8 to 10 years through consolidations and the modernization of our equipment so that it is the best in the world," Mr. VanGelderen said. "Canadians are unfortunately lagging behind."
Michael B. Kronick, executive director of the Canadian Carpet Institute, which filed the dumping complaint last year, welcomed the ruling, which he said would give the Canadian companies extra duty protection for at least five years to make themselves more competitive.
He said the decision by the Canadian International Trade Tribunal, an agency roughly equivalent to the International Trade Commission in Washington, was "good news for the Canadian industry" and should help preserve jobs.
Canada's 10 leading carpet manufacturers are mostly based in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. In Ontario the industry employs about 750 workers, half the work force of four years ago.
 
Official Finding of Dumping
 In December, Revenue Canada, the national fiscal agency, found that the American companies were dumping -- selling their products for less than their price in the United States -- and imposed a temporary duty.
On Tuesday, the International Trade Tribunal, a separate agency, made the duty permanent with a finding that American carpet imports were injuring the domestic industry. A determination that harm is caused to a domestic industry is an internationally mandated requirement before dumping duties can be finally authorized.
The carpet case is different from most of the others that have soured the trading relationship between Washington and Ottawa in recent months. In the automobile, lumber and magnesium industries, the United States is seeking protection against imports from Canada. In beer, each country complains that the other has unfairly restrictive practices.
Most analysts agree that trade issues have become unusually sensitive because of the recession in the two countries over the last 18 months, as well as coming elections on both sides of the border.
Despite the strains, the two countries, which have been joined in a free trade area since Jan. 1, 1989, and are by far each other's biggest trading partner, say they have no intention of breaking off talks for a broader North American free trade zone that would also embrace Mexico.
Those talks have been under way for nine months. Negotiators are working toward a possible agreement later this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CARPETS AND RUGS; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CARPET & RUG MILLS (91%); FLOORING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



734 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Rise, but Prices Rise Faster

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Adjusted for inflation, Americans' per-capita income shrank in 1991 for the first time in nine years, the Government said today.
Personal income totaled $19,082 a person last year, just 2.1 percent more than in 1990, the Commerce Department said. But that rate was only slightly more than half last year's 4.1 percent inflation rate as measured by the department's index for personal expenditures. 
 It was the first time since 1982 that growth in per-capita income failed to keep pace with rising prices.
And, it was the third consecutive annual decline in the growth rate. Each year of the Bush Administration has seen smaller income growth than the year before. Per-capita incomes grew 5.4 percent in 1990, 6.9 percent in 1989 and 7.1 percent in 1988.
The income figures also showed the continuing reversal of a mid-1980's trend, dubbed the bicoastal economy, of incomes growing faster on the East and West coasts than in the country's heartland.
 
State Trends Reversed
 In general, the Commerce Department said, the states with the fastest-growing incomes in 1991 had endured some of the slowest growth in the 1980's. Conversely, many states experiencing the slowest growth last year had led the 1980's boom.
Only seven states managed income increases equal to or better than the national inflation rate last year: Wyoming, 5.1 percent; Montana and North Dakota, each 4.8 percent; Hawaii, 4.6 percent; Louisiana, 4.2 percent, and New Mexico and Arkansas, 4.1 percent.
Still, income growth was lower in 1991 than a year earlier in all 50 states, reflecting the recession that began in July 1990 and continued through 1991.
The sluggishness was much more widely dispersed than in previous years. In 1990, 40 states reported slower income growth than the previous year. Twenty-five states reported a slowdown in 1989.
Last year, six states registered income gains of 1 percent or less: Rhode Island, two-tenths of 1 percent; Nevada and Maine, seven-tenths of 1 percent; New Hampshire, nine-tenths of 1 percent, and Idaho, 1 percent.
The states with the five highest per-capita incomes and the five lowest remained the same in 1991 as the previous year. The highest per-capita income, in Connecticut, was 94 percent greater than the lowest, in Mississippi.
The five highest were: Connecticut, $25,881; New Jersey, $25,372; Massachusetts, $22,897; New York, $22,456, and Maryland, $22,080. Per-capita income was $24,439 in the District of Columbia.
The five lowest were: Mississippi, $13,343; West Virginia, $14,174; Utah, $14,529; Arkansas, $14,753, and New Mexico, $14,844.
The Commerce Department derived the per-capita income figure by dividing total income -- $4.81 trillion nationally in 1991 -- by the total population 252.2 million.
Personal income is measured before taxes but after Social Security deductions and includes income from all sources -- wages, investment earnings, Government payments like welfare and others.
Nationally, Government employees reported the strongest income gains, 5.2 percent, followed by service sector employees, 4.2 percent.
Construction workers suffered a 6.6 percent income decline. Incomes of workers producing durable goods like automobiles and appliances slipped five-tenths of 1 percent.
People producing nondurable goods like clothing and food products saw their incomes rise 3.1 percent, while mining and oil-drilling workers experienced a 3.4 percent gain.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Personal Income in 1991"
 
NATIONAL AVERAGE: $19,082 UP 2.1% FROM 1990

 	 	 		Personal	Change		income per	from	State	capita, 1991	1990	 	 	 	TOP 10 STATES	 	 	Conn.	$25,881	1.9%	N.J.	25,372	2.0	D.C.	24,439	3.5	Mass.	22,897	1.5	N.Y.	22,456	1.5	Md.	22,080	1.0	Alaska	21,932	1.3	Hawaii	21,306	4.6	Calif.	20,952	1.3	N.H.	20,951	0.9	 	 	 	BOTTOM 10 STATES	 	 	Ala.	$15,567	3.8%	Ky.	15,539	3.6	S.C.	15,420	1.8	Idaho	15,401	1.0	La.	15,143	4.2	N.M.	14,844	4.1	Ark.	14,753	4.1	Utah	14,529	3.9	W. Va.	14,174	3.1	Miss.	13,343	4.0	
(Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRICES; STATES (US); INCOME INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



735 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
President of Reynolds To Become Chairman

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The Reynolds Metals Company said yesterday that Richard G. Holder would become chairman and chief executive on May 1, replacing William O. Bourke, who is retiring.
Mr. Holder is now president and chief operating officer, and those posts will remain unfilled. The Richmond, Va., company also announced several other executive changes, including the creation of two vice chairman positions. 
 R. Bern Crowl, 60 years old, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will be become a vice chairman, with responsibilities that will include corporate and financial development and strategic planning.
The other vice chairman will be Yale M. Brandt, 61, executive vice president, who will focus on a companywide push for quality, as well as developing new technologies and working with the automotive industry.
Mr. Bourke, 65, has been chairman since 1986, and during his tenure has overseen a corporate restructuring that resulted in a doubling of revenues and a one-third cut in the work force, to about 30,000 employees.
The new vice chairman posts were established by Mr. Holder, 60, who wanted to place more emphasis on the issues those executives will supervise. But little else will change in the company's strategy, he said yesterday in a telephone interview. "You're not going to see dramatic change in direction," he said.
That direction includes trying not only to weather the recession but also to cope with severely depressed aluminum prices. In the last year the London Metal Exchange has been flooded with aluminum ingot by former Soviet republics seeking to amass hard currency.
In response, Reynolds has cut costs and eliminated some production capacity. The company is also seeking to find more uses for its products. It expects the amount of aluminum used in automobiles, for example, to roughly double this decade to more than 300 pounds a vehicle. Mr. Holder said yesterday that the company was seeing the first glimmers of an economic recovery in increased distributor orders for its consumer products, like its Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil and Sure-Seal freezer and sandwich bags.
Mr. Holder has spent his entire career at Reynolds, which he joined as a trainee in 1953 after graduating with a business administration degree from Vanderbilt University. He held many sales and marketing positions before becoming president in 1986. He and his wife, Patricia, have four adult daughters, and live near Richmond.
The company also named two executive vice presidents yesterday. They are Henry S. Savedge Jr., 58, who will succeed Mr. Crowl as executive vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Savedge is now vice president of finance.
J. Wilt Wagner, 50, will succeed Mr. Brandt as executive vice president, fabricated industrial products. He is vice president and general manager of the Mill Products division.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RLM (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3497 METAL FOIL & LEAF (93%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (93%); SIC2671 PACKAGING PAPER & PLASTICS FILM, COATED & LAMINATED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: REYNOLDS METALS CO REYNOLDS PACKAGING GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: REYNOLDS METALS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (94%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); RECESSION (70%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (55%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; HOLDER, RICHARD G; BOURKE, WILLIAM O MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



736 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Broad Decline; Gold Retreats in the U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against all major currencies except the Canadian dollar in dull trading yesterday.
Gold prices retreated after rising overseas. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery fell $1.80 to settle at $339.30 a troy ounce. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold of $338.40 an ounce, off $1.85. 
 Analysts said trading was uneventful. The only significant move came overnight in the British pound, which posted a healthy gain on the belief that political stability has returned following the country's general election earlier this month.
Elsewhere, however, "the dollar was locked in a very tight range," said John McCarthy, chief dealer at ABN-AMRO Bank N.V.
"Concerns about weakness in some of the European currencies keeps the dollar at the high end of the range," he said, "but the overwhelming factor that prevents the dollar from breaking out of that range is interest-rate differentials."
With yields on fixed-income securities higher overseas, investors have greater incentive to put their money abroad, thereby increasing their need for foreign currencies.
Analysts said today's durable goods report for March might lend some fresh direction to trading.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.22 yen, to a closing 134.25 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at 134.16 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 134.18 yen, down from 134.25 yen on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7630, from $1.7495 late Tuesday. In New York it cost $1.7625 to buy one pound, more expensive than Tuesday's $1.7500.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6620 German marks, down from 1.6695; 1.5410 Swiss francs, down from 1.5460; 5.6135 French francs, down from 5.6395; 1,248.00 Italian lire, down from 1,253.50, and 1.1850 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1823.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6630 German marks, down from 1.6685; 1.5415 Swiss francs, down from 1.5460.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (70%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (70%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); DURABLE GOODS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



737 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
New York State Is Offering $2.3 Billion in Spring Debt

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The State of New York went to market yesterday with a three-part, $2.3 billion offering of tax and revenue anticipation notes and tentatively priced the short-term issue through an underwriting group led by Bear, Stearns & Company.
The so-called spring borrowing is the largest debt sale in the municipal bond market each year, but its importance to New York is being phased out. 
 Earlier this month, Edward V. Regan, the state's Comptroller, said the borrowing would be cut substantially and amount to only 8 percent of New York's operating budget, down from as much as 22 percent in 1985.
One portion of yesterday's financing includes $300 million in 3.5 percent notes due Sept. 30, 1992, that are priced to yield 2.90 percent; another part, consisting of $550 million in notes with a similar interest rate and due Dec. 31, 1992, is priced to yield 3 percent.
The final and largest part, consisting of $1.45 billion in 3.65 percent notes due March 31, 1993, is offered at a price to yield 3.2 percent.
The financing carries a short-term investment-grade rating of MIG-2 by Moody's Investors Service and SP-1 by the Standard & Poor's Corporation. Moody's said that the reduction in the size of this year's note issue, like last year's reduction, reflected compliance with the requirements of long-term borrowings by New York's Local Government Assistance Corporation, which are intended eventually to eliminate the need for the state's annual spring short-term borrowing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



738 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Times Mirror Net Up 57%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 22

 BODY:
Cost-cutting and lower newsprint prices helped to push first-quarter profits up 57 percent at the Times Mirror Company, the latest media corporation to post sharply higher earnings.
Times Mirror, whose newspapers include The Los Angeles Times, Newsday and New York Newsday, and The Baltimore Sun, said today that it earned $36.6 million, or 28 cents a share, in the first quarter. That compared with $23.3 million, or 18 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1991. 
 Revenues rose 1.5 percent, to $867.8 million from $854.4 million.
Operating profit for the quarter increased 67 percent, to $80 million from $47.8 million, mainly because of cost reductions, lower newsprint prices and the favorable timing of subscription shipments by the company's legal information publisher.
The company's chairman and chief executive, Robert F. Erburu, attributed the results to successful cost-cutting and revenue and earnings gains at operations that are not dependent on advertising. He was cautious in his outlook, however.
"While we exceeded our expected improvement over a weak first quarter in 1991, continued softness in the Southern California and New York regional economies is affecting advertising revenues," he said.
Times Mirror stock rose 37.5 cents today, to $36.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CO TIMES MIRROR CO (94%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%); 

PERSON: ROBERT F ERBURU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



739 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Paring Down For the 90's (Well, Sort Of)

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
YOU can whisper money, coo money, sing money, talk money, moan money, gurgle money, sigh money, murmur money. Just please, don't scream money.
"This doesn't scream money," said Stephen Mallory, referring to the neo-Gothic rosewood and ivory console plunked against the wall of the library he designed for the 20th annual Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House. 
 Leather-bound books don't scream money. Neither does an 18th-century English bamboo chair or a Schiaparelli pink burlap and silk sofa with Chanel-style buttons. But a gilt Louis XV bombe chest?
Click your heels three times and repeat: There is no place like the Kips Bay Show House. Here the work of 19 designers will be on splendiferous view through May 12 in a neoclassical town house at 32 East 70th Street.
This year's K is for kumquats, the favorite prop of the moment. I is for interior decor. P is for papyrus in the garden. And S is for feng shui to guide the placement of it all.
Long viewed as an exit poll of current design trends, the 1992 show house might be subtitled "Accessorizers Anonymous," as decorators struggle against their innate impulse to gild that sweet little chair leg and put down that extra gewgaw.
They really are trying to pare down for the 90's. But what do you do when you are presented with a double-height Edwardian oak-paneled room, with finely carved swags and garlands on the wall and a magnficent cast plaster ceiling?
"I tried to work with the room," said Juan Pablo Molyneux, the Chilean-born decorator. Witness the rare George III commodes, the Titian and the Veroneses on the walls and -- apocalypse watchers, take note -- a re-creation of Michelangelo's "Last Judgment," containing a muscular depiction of Mr. Molyneux, on the ceiling.
"I was determined to make the most beautiful room in New York," he said. "It's a very complicated simplicity."
Complicated simplicity, the decorator equivalent of "I Didn't Inhale," abounds in the 19 rooms of the show house, where fake bird calls waft through the hallways and asphyxiation from potpourri and scented candles is a constant threat.
"People are getting used to the idea that the recession is on and the 80's are finished," said Richard L. Ridge, speaking from his black and white Salon du Soir, which is anchored by a pair of life-size 18th-century porcelain maidens. "Opulence is gone."
Opulence is not to be confused with elegance, the decorators say. But there is plenty of opulence at Kips Bay's rooms. The majority exhibit what one decorator calls a "timeless classicism": pretty, sometimes fuddy-duddyish rooms that could have been designed anytime. Anyone under the age of 65 who is seeking new ideas will have to forage to find rooms to relate to at Kips Bay.
Like the Academy Awards, to which Kips Bay is often compared in the decorating world, there are a few technical milestones, among them George Lucas's THX sound system in Gary Crain's Deco-inspired at-home movie theater. The air of riveting unreality is heighted by the felt-tipped markers carried by decorators to hide scuff marks and the fact that there is only one working bathroom out of dozen or so in the house.
Show houses are nothing but ephemeral; it is even possible to gauge a room's intent without stepping into it (if it's a Paganini violin concerto, it must be classical and expensive; if it's Windham Hill or Carly Simon, it's got to be "young"). But those seeking a deeper meaning might do well to contrast the master bedroom suite by Stephen Stempler with the garden room by Clodagh.
The function of both rooms -- luxurious boudoirs for waiting expectantly in -- is essentially the same. Mr. Stempler's is very Marie Antoinette (it contains the show house's most intriguing accessory: what Mr. Stempler called Marie Antoinette's worry beads). The bedroom has a king-size bed crowned with a valence, around which cascade a crown of swags with bells. The dressing room has fabric-covered walls printed with monkeys playing instruments and a kidney-shaped dressing table covered in blue silk and lace.
Mr. Stempler calls all this "rollickingly feminine." In a guide to the room, he describes the 1990's woman like this: "She may compete and work in a bare and minimal high-tech world, but it needn't follow her home." Here, she is free to indulge in what Mr. Stempler calls "guilt-free femininity." (Note to Susan Faludi: Mr. Stempler's room is on the third floor.)
Clodagh, who quotes Yeats and used a feng-shui specialist, is also trying to define the woman of the 90's. Stepping into her copper and burgundy casbahlike space feels a little like landing on the underside of a gigantic mushroom. The room features mildly New Age music composed especially for the show house by Jeff Talman, in contrast to Mr. Stempler's Cole Porter, and love lights on a dimmer, rather than swags.
Inspired by Moorish and Tuscan courtyards, the sculptured space has a lowered ceiling "so you feel as though you are entering a teahouse," Clodagh said. Filled with a scent called Night in Brazil, it is indeed a sensuous, mysterious lair, with a chenille daybed and objects by contemporary designers. It leads into an exotic garden where papyrus grows beneath a copper waterfall.
Whether you call it "guilt-free femininity" or "design as a healing art," these rooms are both about "Love in the Afternoon," to paraphrase Clodagh. Pick your role model: Marie Antoinette or Shirley MacLaine.
Unlike designing for a client, one of the curiosities of a show house is the fact that the decorators are designing for themselves. This can be painful. So painful that they will often invent a make-believe character you would never want to sit next to at dinner.
This device worked well for Greg Jordan, who designed a breezy indoor-outdoor sitting room and terrace for a "groovy grandmother." The room was full of clever techniques: painted murals (instead of pricier paintings) and bouquets of flowers painted on scrimlike draperies of silk crepe with satin binding. In a pretty canvas-tented outdoor sitting room, with gutters in case of rain, the cartoony silhouettes of iron furniture were left bare in a sort of Roy Lichtenstein interior come to life. "Today everything has to have a purpose," Mr. Jordan said. "There aren't a lot of clients we buy marble grapes for."
Like cream, some of the younger ideas floated to the top floors. Libby Cameron, a designer for Parish-Hadley, decorated her bedroom windows with tin valences painted with blue and gold stars. In a design for a pigeonless planet, Ralph Harvard and Hethea Nye of R. Brooke Ltd. designed an outdoor sleeping porch with a trellis frame and bed draperies of unlined silk. In a bedroom suite, Kenneth Hockin played with the tensions between the high and the low: a brass crown bed shown in its glory without a canopy; a silk chaise trimmed with jute fringe; a lamp with a simple linen shade and a gilded urn base.
There was much to ponder throughout the show house, including an abundance of browns and not-so-subtle mirrors. Also worth noting:
* Utter fearlessness: Kevin McNamara's lone use of chintz.
* Drapiest drapery: Sandra Nunnerley's 150 yards of silk taffeta held up by Chinese medallions.
* Most obsessive detail: Faux Post-its and Scotch tape on the wall of the telephone room by Michael Nichols, a decorative painter.
* Second most obsessive detail: a step stool, painted in a sea-foam green taken from murals of Pompeii, in NDM Kitchens' sixth-floor kitchen.
* Best defense: the telescope on R. Brooke Ltd.'s outdoor sleeping porch.
* Cutest couple: the topiary boxwood bust, without a chin, and its 18th-century marble companion in Mr. Molyneux's room.
* Second cutest couple: Mr. Moly neux's pair of Sistine Chapel pillows.
* Best hardware: the old-fashioned fixtures in Lembo-Bohn's bathroom.
* Best deterrent: mirrored french doors encasing two large refrigerators in Beverly Ellsley's kitchen.
* Best credentials: Gilles Dupuis, a restorer at Versailles, who painted the walls in the main entrance hall for Noblesse Oblige, a French design concern.
* Most elastic client list: Stephen Stempler's, which includes Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Nixon and Garry Trudeau and Jane Pauley.
* Object to treat delicately: Juan Montoya's enormous and extremely fragile-looking chrome and lead crystal chandelier.
* Possible campaign issue: Sanctions against the excessive use of decorative paint.
* Thought for the day: "Life is layered. Relationships are layered. Your relationship to a space is layered." -- Clodagh.
* Second thought for the day: "Entering a new space is exhausting." -- ditto.
* Most sympathetic design element: wilted tulips, a metaphor for how the average Kips Bay-goer feels at the end of the day.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Kips Bay Show House, Juan Pablo Molyneux explores what he calls "a very complicated simplicity" with a Titian or two and pillows inspired by Michelangelo. (pg. C1); Cutest couple: the topiary boxwood bust and its 18th-century marble companion in Juan Pablo Molyneux's room.; A cartoonlike iron chair from Greg Jordan's room.; Boudoirs for waiting expectantly in: Clodagh's exotic scented lair, above, and Stephen Stempler's homage to "guilt-free-feminity," left.; Greg Jordan's tented outdoor sitting room, with gutters in case of rain, created for a "groovy grandmother."; A design for a pigeonless planet: R. Brooke Ltd.'s outdoor sleeping porch with a trellis frame and silk bed draperies. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: KIPS BAY BOYS' AND GIRLS' CLUB (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: KIPS BAY BOYS' AND GIRLS' CLUB (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



740 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Home Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: WHERE TO FIND IT;
Making Old Stoves Hot Again

BYLINE: Terry Trucco

 BODY:
TO some people, they are just old stoves, a prosaic kitchen accouterment at best. But not to David Erickson, who restores and sells vintage cookers at Erickson's Antique Stoves in Littleton, Mass. "These things are mechanical works of art," he said. "They're gorgeous."
The old stoves in question range from nickel-plated Victorian coal-burners to huge white 1950's models loaded with chrome. Cast-iron gas ranges from the 1920's are particularly distinctive, with an exposed, nickel-plated gas pipe on the front and stately Queen Anne legs. Stoves from the 30's are more streamlined and, with fewer surface details, easier to keep clean. And boxy 40's stoves look more like today's models. 
 In recent years, old-fangled stoves have become increasingly popular in newfangled kitchens, notably in older houses and apartments where a retro kitchen looks comfortable. But the stove rehabilitation business extends to recent restaurant models, which have sleek contemporary lines and are designed for durability. Even 60's stoves in harvest green and yellow are being restored by their owners and, occasionally, selling to collectors.
"Many people are distressed by the quality of new stoves," said Mr. Erickson, a stove restorer since 1980. "The old ones have a unique style and heavy-duty construction. They just need a good, solid tuneup every 40 to 50 years."
A properly rehabilitated gas stove is essentially a new stove in an old body. Mr. Erickson, who completely dismantles each old stove, installs an automatic safety pilot; in bygone times, owners struck a match to light the oven. He also rebuilds old thermostats. If the original thermostat is still not reliable, he installs new components.
Mr. Erickson, who handles stoves from the 1870's to the 1950's, became a stove enthusiast -- and restorer -- by chance. A former industrial arts instructor, he bought an old Victorian train depot, then fixed up a Victorian stove to heat it.
These days, the depot is his workshop and showroom, where he has about 200 stoves. He can pick up and deliver stoves for repair nearly anywhere in New England, New York and New Jersey. Major repairs cost $500 to $3,000. Stoves rehabilitated by Mr. Erickson start at around $1,700.
 
First, Remove the Mice
 Gus Elias, a partner in Artco Restaurant Equipment Company, sells and restores mostly new and used commercial stoves. "People have been putting commercial stoves into their homes for about 10 years," he said. But his 12-year-old company also rehabilitates stoves from the 1930's through the 70's. A lot of things can be wrong with an old stove. Mice can eat away the insulation. And often an entire stainless steel side rots away, particularly if water has leaked onto it. Burners can also crack and warp from heat.
Stove rehabilitation entails several basic steps. Grease is removed with a thick, non-abrasive solution. Grates and burners are sandblasted, then painted. Enamel must be repaired. And for newer stoves, a stainless steel exterior must be fashioned if the old one cannot be saved.
If the proper parts are hard to find, Mr. Elias often fabricates replacements. But he needs to look at a stove to know whether he can repair it.
Restoration costs about $400 and up.
 
Back to Wood-Burners
 Bea Bryant rehabilitates antique stoves in the tiny town of Thorndike, Me. But her old stoves have been shipped all over the world. (Her company, Bryant Stoves/Music Inc., recently sent an old kitchen stove to Euro Disneyland outside Paris.)
Mrs. Bryant, a stove collector for more than 40 years, deals mainly in stoves from the 1880's to 1930's. She also rehabilitates gas and wood combination stoves. Business took off in the early 70's when the energy crisis made the old models more economical, she said. "People needed cheap heat."
Mrs. Bryant, a past president of the Antique Stove Association, personally prefers very old models, including those from the 18th century. "The newer the stove, the plainer they got," she said. "People spent a lot of time designing the older ones."
Her company, in business since the late 1960's, specializes in restoring Clarion, Atlantic and Kineo stoves, from old Maine companies founded in the mid-19th century. Her rehabilitated kitchen stoves start at $1,000. A free catalogue is available.
 
Here's Where
ERICKSON'S ANTIQUE STOVES: 2 Taylor Street, Box 2275, Littleton, Mass. 01460; (508) 486-3589. Monday to Friday, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M.; Saturday 10 A.M. to 3 P.M.
 
ARTCO RESTAURANT EQUIPMENT: 14-14 Astoria Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens 11102; (718) 721-1888. Monday to Friday, 9 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Saturday, 9 A.M. to 1 P.M.
 
BRYANT STOVES/MUSIC INC.: Box 2048, Thorndike, Me. 04986; (207) 568-3665. Monday to Saturday, 7:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Artco Restaurant Equipment Company, Gus Elias rehabilitates stoves from the 1930's through the 70's (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: OVENS AND STOVES; HOME APPLIANCES ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); 

PERSON: TRUCCO, TERRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



741 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: What if Bosnia Had Oil?

 BODY:
When Saddam Hussein sent his divisions plunging into helpless little Kuwait, President Bush proclaimed an inviolable principle: Aggression would not stand. Hah, cynics said, the issue is not principle but oil. If Kuwait were not rich in oil, the West would not have rushed half a million soldiers to the Persian Gulf.
Was the President following a double standard? The world now looks to the aggression, every bit as cruel and unprovoked, by Serbia's Slobodan Milosevic against Bosnia and Herzegovina. That newborn state has no oil -- and no defenses. Will the U.S. and Europe stand up for principle as strongly as they did for petroleum? 
 Bosnia is just the place for the Administration to show it means what Secretary of State Baker says about collective engagement to secure peace. Yet the State Department does no more than mumble, as if innocent Bosnians were equally to blame. How much more Serbian terror is required to get the Administration to talk and act sternly, to turn Serbia into a pariah until it lets go of Bosnia?
Mr. Milosevic bears chief blame for the bloodletting. Bosnia preferred to remain in a loosely confederal Yugoslavia. But when he whipped up Serbian nationalism, driving out other republics, Bosnia was forced to flee a Serb-dominated rump state. Now, ignoring the latest U.S. entreaty, he seems determined to dismember Bosnia. Serb irregulars and the Serb-led Yugoslav Army are stepping up their barrages against Bosnia's defenseless towns. They have seized two-thirds of Bosnia and driven tens of thousands from their homes.
There are several concrete ways for the United States to take the lead now:
 Deny recognition to Serbia as Yugoslavia's legal heir; break relations with the Yugoslav shell; expel the Milosevic gang from international organizations like the United Nations.
 Work to increase U.N. peacekeeping forces in Sarajevo and disperse them through Bosnia.
 Tighten, and enforce, the economic blockade on landlocked Serbia. Without oil, weapons, ammunition and spare parts, Serbia's war machine will eventually grind down.
To be effective, these diplomatic and economic pressures require full cooperation from Europe. Much as it did in the Persian Gulf war, Washington can mobilize a unified Europe. No one has a greater stake in territorial integrity than the rest of Europe, East and West. Europeans cannot -- dare not -- tolerate Mr. Milosevic's dangerous attempt to change Bosnia's borders by force.
Stepping up the pressure may at a minimum rouse Serbs opposed to aggressive Milosevic nationalism. Many have fled or gone into hiding rather than march with a marauding Yugoslav Army. If the rest truly care about protecting kinsmen in Bosnia and elsewhere, they will press their Government to stop the terror and get out of Bosnia. If Americans believe in the principle that aggression is intolerable, they will stand up for it, oil or no oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (94%); KUWAIT (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); YUGOSLAV ARMY (68%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV ARMY (68%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA (YUGOSLAVIA); SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); KUWAIT ; IRAQ SERBIA (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (94%); KUWAIT (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ; PERSIAN GULF WAR US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); ARMIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



742 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: When Welfare Tries Fingerprints

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As New York State prepares a pilot program mandating fingerprinting of welfare applicants and recipients in Onondaga and Rockland counties, we should look closer at the fingerprinting experience in Los Angeles (news article, April 6) and its likely ramifications in New York.
Any reduction in welfare fraud to be achieved by fingerprinting is realized by limiting the access of needy people to the welfare system. From our experience with hundreds of community groups around New York State, we know that recent immigrants, Holocaust survivors, older people, political asylum seekers, psychiatric patients and those frequently most in need of government assistance are frightened by fingerprinting -- frightened enough to forgo needed medical, food and housing assistance if fingerprinting is required. 
 Los Angeles County claims that it has saved $5.4 million from its experiment fingerprinting welfare applicants and recipients. This figure was arrived at by including as a cost saving more than 3,000 people who refused to be fingerprinted and were cut off from receiving rent, food and medical assistance. The computer system Los Angeles uses for the fingerprinting system costs nearly $2 million a year. Only nine people have been uncovered as "welfare cheats." Consequently, the fingerprinting system costs the County of Los Angeles more than $222,000 for every case of welfare fraud discovered.
Applicants and recipients of public assistance in New York State's pilot fingerprinting project have a significant basis for concern about the confidentiality of their prints. Inappropriate disclosure of AIDS virus status and other information regarded as confidential is not uncommon in crowded and hectic welfare centers. Whether by mistake or breach, confidential information about welfare applicants and recipients is too frequently disclosed in welfare centers around the state.
When Social Security numbers were first instituted, their sole purpose was a narrow one -- the opening of a Social Security account. Today, Social Security numbers are used on college identification cards, bank accounts, loan applications and public-assistance applications. Information collected by Government bureaucracies tends to proliferate. Fingerprinting information is unlikely to be kept confidential for very long.
Fingerprinting reflects the intrusiveness of the governmental "Big Brother" into the lives of low-income people for the questionable social goal of scaring people away from Government assistance. Fingerprinting public assistance recipients is a quasi criminalization of low-income people that no government would institute toward middle-class people. How would we collectively react if Los Angeles or New York proposed to fingerprint all Social Security or income tax filers? The rate of fraud and abuse in these systems equals or surpasses welfare fraud.
Being poor is not a crime. If we are serious about trying to save money in the welfare system, then we should
look to programs that create jobs and to programs that redirect eligible welfare recipients toward veterans benefits, disability, unemployment and more appropriate benefit programs. Fingerprinting is not the answer.
 
JEFFREY PLAUT
Coordinator, City-Wide Welfare Advocacy Network
Bronx, April 9, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINGERPRINTING; WELFARE (US) WELFARE FRAUD (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FINGERPRINTING (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICAID (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIDS & HIV (71%); MILITARY BENEFITS (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (55%); VETERANS (50%); VIRUSES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



743 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Abortion and the Law;
Sketches of 3 Lawyers In Abortion Argument

 BODY:

Kathryn Kolbert
American Civil Liberties Union lawyer
One of three senior lawyers for the A.C.L.U. Reproductive Freedom Project. . . . Successfully argued the case of Thornburgh v. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists before the Supreme Court in 1985. . . . As state coordinating counsel for the Reproductive Freedom Project since 1989, the 40-year-old Philadelphian assists the A.C.L.U.'s state offices and other local groups in lobbying for abortion rights. . . . Litigated challenges to Pennsylvania abortion laws for the Philadelphia-based Women's Law Project from 1979 to 1988. . . . Graduated from Cornell University School of Arts and Sciences and Temple University School of Law. . . . Two children.
 
Ernest D. Preate Jr.
Pennsylvania Attorney General 
 Elected Attorney General in 1989. . . . The 51-year-old Republican served three consecutive terms as Lackawanna County District Attorney, winning five death sentences against convicted murderers, a record for the state. . . . Has concentrated on drug crimes. . . . In his only other argument before the Supreme Court, Mr. Preate successfully defeated a challenge to Pennsylvania's death penalty and how juries are instructed in weighing mitigating circumstances. . . . Served as a Marine infantry officer in Vietnam in 1967 and 1968. . . . Earned a degree in economics from the Wharton School of Finance and a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. . . . Divorced. . . . Two children.
 
Kenneth W. Starr
U.S. Solicitor General
The Administration's chief litigator before the Supreme Court. . . . Appointed by President Bush, has served as Solicitor General since May 1989. . . . Raised in San Antonio, Mr. Starr, 45, received his law degree from Duke University School of Law in 1973. . . . Clerked for retired Chief Justice Warren E. Burger from 1975 to 1977. . . . As partner with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Los Angeles and Washington, litigated Federal civil cases. . . . Served as chief of staff to Attorney General William French Smith. . . . Appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1983. . . . Lives in McLean, Va. with his wife and three children.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathryn Kolbert (Reuters); Ernest D. Preate Jr. (Associated Press); Kenneth W. Starr (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS & GYNECOLOGISTS (84%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS & GYNECOLOGISTS (84%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND
LITIGATION LAWYERS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ABORTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); MURDER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SENTENCING (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, KATHRYN; PREATE, ERNEST D JR (ATTY GEN); STARR, KENNETH W GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



744 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Abortion and the Law;
Sketches of 3 Lawyers In Abortion Argument

 BODY:

Kathryn Kolbert
American Civil Liberties Union lawyer
One of three senior lawyers for the A.C.L.U. Reproductive Freedom Project. . . . Successfully argued the case of Thornburgh v. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists before the Supreme Court in 1985. . . . As state coordinating counsel for the Reproductive Freedom Project since 1989, the 40-year-old Philadelphian assists the A.C.L.U.'s state offices and other local groups in lobbying for abortion rights. . . . Litigated challenges to Pennsylvania abortion laws for the Philadelphia-based Women's Law Project from 1979 to 1988. . . . Graduated from Cornell University School of Arts and Sciences and Temple University School of Law. . . . Two children.
 
Ernest D. Preate Jr.
Pennsylvania Attorney General 
 Elected Attorney General in 1989. . . . The 51-year-old Republican served three consecutive terms as Lackawanna County District Attorney, winning five death sentences against convicted murderers, a record for the state. . . . Has concentrated on drug crimes. . . . In his only other argument before the Supreme Court, Mr. Preate successfully defeated a challenge to Pennsylvania's death penalty and how juries are instructed in weighing mitigating circumstances. . . . Served as a Marine infantry officer in Vietnam in 1967 and 1968. . . . Earned a degree in economics from the Wharton School of Finance and a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. . . . Divorced. . . . Two children.
 
Kenneth W. Starr
U.S. Solicitor General
The Administration's chief litigator before the Supreme Court. . . . Appointed by President Bush, has served as Solicitor General since May 1989. . . . Raised in San Antonio, Mr. Starr, 45, received his law degree from Duke University School of Law in 1973. . . . Clerked for retired Chief Justice Warren E. Burger from 1975 to 1977. . . . As partner with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Los Angeles and Washington, litigated Federal civil cases. . . . Served as chief of staff to Attorney General William French Smith. . . . Appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1983. . . . Lives in McLean, Va. with his wife and three children.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathryn Kolbert (Reuters); Ernest D. Preate Jr. (Associated Press); Kenneth W. Starr (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS & GYNECOLOGISTS (84%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU); SUPREME COURT (US) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (94%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS & GYNECOLOGISTS (84%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); WOMEN'S LAW PROJECT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND
LITIGATION LAWYERS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ABORTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); MURDER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SENTENCING (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, KATHRYN; PREATE, ERNEST D JR (ATTY GEN); STARR, KENNETH W GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992



745 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: UNIONS DEMANDING SHARE OF SURPLUS IN DINKINS BUDGET

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Leaders of New York City's municipal unions yesterday demanded a share of the budget surplus that the Dinkins administration disclosed a day before, and angrily denounced Mayor David N. Dinkins, saying he had previously distorted the budget picture to elicit labor concessions.
The Dinkins administration, which has vowed not to grant wage increases without productivity gains, sought to quell the clamor, and not just from the unions, as many contingents came forward yesterday to claim bigger pieces of the budget pie. 
 In Albany, Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin said he expected the city to scale back its proposed tax package and to contribute a bigger share of the financing for the city's subways, buses, colleges and universities.
 
A Reminder of Challenges
 But the Mayor and the City Council stuck to their position of seeking approval for $115 million in new taxes from Albany and shored up their position with an agreement, after months of haggling, on exactly where the new taxes should fall. They include new taxes on tobacco, alcohol and gasoline.
In refusing to consider reducing the tax package, the administration told officials in Albany what it told others who made appeals yesterday for pieces of the budget surplus: that the money was already spoken for.
For Mayor Dinkins, who spent the last week releasing good budget news in plans ranging from longer hours at libraries to more low-income housing in the Bronx, yesterday was a dose of political reality. And it was a reminder not only that the Mayor still faces considerable challenges in balancing the city's budget but also that the surplus is not the fiscal panacea that it might have seemed. [News analysis, page B4.]
"It's not like we are now awash with new money that we can start spending all over the place," said First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel. "We still have to maintain a very disciplined fiscal environment because the financial crisis of the 1990's is not over yet."
Conveying that message was only complicated yesterday as the administration prepared to announce it was restoring $1.7 billion of the $3.7 billion it had proposed to cut in spending for long-term construction projects just weeks ago. Those projects are financed by bonds, and the city had trimmed them to save on interest costs. But it said yesterday that it has found ways to avoid increasing those costs by adjusting the timing of the bonds and projects and rejuggling state and Federal money that had been earmarked for other purposes.
On Tuesday, city budget officials described the budget surplus for the fiscal year that ends on June 30 only as in excess of $200 million. Yesterday, they pinpointed it at $455 million. The surplus is composed of $110 million from the city's general reserve fund, $158 million in higher tax collections, $75 million in money set aside for contracts entered into that is no longer needed, $37 million from miscellaneous revenues and $75 million in underspending stemming from tighter controls.
The officials said the surplus would be used to eliminate the city's plans to borrow $250 million with the help of the state's Municipal Assistance Corporation and to offset $200 million in Federal aid that the city had hoped for but will not receive. Bond raters and fiscal monitors had warned the administration that borrowing through the assistance corporation would lower the city's bond rating and advised against it.
"While the surplus is good news and important news in terms of helping us put together a fiscally balanced plan," Mr. Steisel said, "we don't want to give people the mistaken impression that a lot of the tough things we said we would have to do in January to balance the budget now don't have to be done. We still have to do the tough things."
 
Contributed to Surplus
 But Stanley Hill, president of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said the Dinkins administration had not been honest with the unions in portraying the city's fiscal condition and he called Mr. Dinkins's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, "a liar."
Mr. Hill said the unions deserved a share of the city's surplus because their members had contributed to the surplus through work force reductions and furloughs. "If they had told us then what they are telling us now, we would have never agreed to these concessions," he said.
Barry Feinstein, president of Teamsters Local 237, said the surplus meant that the city would have to revise its labor policies. "They have cried poor mouth all this time, saying that there will be no wage increases unless there is gain-sharing, but that now changes and we want raises up front," Mr. Feinstein said.
Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said in a statement: "The surplus means that the city has to get its act together and start negotiating contracts. Otherwise, it's going to see a lot of labor unrest." Ms. Feldman was traveling yesterday and could not be reached for further comment.
The city's Labor Commissioner, James F. Hanley, maintained yesterday that the city had negotiated in good faith with the unions. "We dealt with the hand that was there based on the facts as we knew them," Mr. Hanley said, "but the good news is still that the city has avoided layoffs." He acknowledged that the surplus would have an impact on the city's future negotiations with the unions but declined to say what that would be.
In Albany, Steven H. Greenberg, a spokesman for Mr. Weprin, the Assembly Speaker, said yesterday that given its substantial surplus, the city should reduce the amount of money that it is seeking in its tax package and increase its level of funds to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates the city's subways and buses, and the City University of New York.
"It's fair to say that the Speaker believes that Mr. Dinkins is now in a position to do more for the people of New York City than he was a few months ago," Mr. Greenberg said.
Overcoming that sentiment in Albany will be an uphill battle, a battle for which the Mayor and the Council began to prepare yesterday by agreeing on a tax package. Reluctant to pass new taxes in the first place, Albany has long refused even to consider such requests from the city unless the Mayor and the Council first agree.
Legislative leaders have said Mr. Dinkins's plan for a commuter income tax was all but dead, but the Mayor has insisted on pressing forward with it because he believes it is fair, his aides said.
But in a compromise with the Council, he agreed to press for other taxes it had sought and to drop his own plans for a 1 percent tax on the value of cars. The joint tax proposal includes taxes on gasoline, tobacco, alcohol and fuels that produce pollution.
In the past, state lawmakers have approved such "sin taxes" on alcohol and tobacco to make state budgets work, but whether they will allow the city to add to them is uncertain, especially in light of the city's surplus.
Even as the Dinkins administration released the details of the tax package yesterday, Mr. Dinkins was planning to announce today that he was restoring $1.7 billion of the $3.7 billion in proposed cuts to the city's capital budget for construction. The bulk of the restoration will go toward housing, education, parks, economic development and health care.
The administration is cutting the cost of construction by reconfiguring timetables for building and financing projects, taking advantage of low construction costs and applying for new Federal and state matching funds.
Aides at the city's Office of Management and Budget said yesterday that the Mayor's capital budget to be released today includes restorations of $600 million for education, $200 million for housing, $230 million for highways, $50 million for parks, $100 million for economic development and $70 million for health care.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Balancing the Budget: Where the Money Would Come From" -- Mayor David N. Dinkins and the New York City Council yesterday proposed an estimated $115 million tax package to insure a balanced budget in fiscal year 1993. The taxes require approval from the State Legislature. Here are the state and city taxes collected in New York City that would be affected.

 	 	Tax	Expected revenue	Non-resident	 	 personal income tax	$67 million	Gasoline	$26 million**	Other fuels*	--	Liquor	$8 million***	Beer	--	Wine	$2 million	Cigarettes+	$11 million	Cigars and pipe tobacco	$1 million	
 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 

 	 	 	Tax	Current tax	Proposed tax	 	 	 	Non-resident personal	 	 	 income tax	.45 percent of wages	.75 percent of wages	 	 	 	Gasoline	8 cents a gallon	11 cents a gallon	 	 	 	Other fuels*	10 to 12.9 cents a	13.7 to 16.6 cents a		gallon	gallon	 	 	 	Liquor	26.4 cents a liter	39.6 cents a liter	 	 	 	Beer	12 cents a gallon	18 cents a gallon	 	 	 	Wine	5 to 25 cents a liter	7.5 to 37.5 cents a liter	 	 	 	Cigarettes+	47 cents a pack	52 cents a pack	 	 	 	Cigars and pipe tobacco	15 percent of	22.5 percent of		wholesale price	wholesale price	
 
 *Diesel, commercial heating petroleum and aviation fuel.
**Gasoline and other fuels combined for total of $26 million.
***Liquor and beer combined for total of 8 million.
+An additional $7 million would go to an anti-smoking campaign. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID N DINKINS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1992



746 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. and American Air in Aeroflot Deal

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
I.B.M. and American Airlines, which teamed up 25 years ago to create the airline industry's dominant computer reservation system, are working together again on a deal to build such a system for Aeroflot, the world's largest airline.
For I.B.M. and American, the Aeroflot contract could eventually translate into more than $100 million in revenues and a big foothold for American's Sabre system in the highly competitive international computer reservations business. 
 Sabre, an advanced computerized system for handling reservations, tracking passengers and issuing tickets and boarding passes, changed the face of air travel in the United States and now handles more than 40 percent of computer reservations.
For five months, teams of business analysts and engineers from Aeroflot, most of which is based in Russia, have been receiving training at American's Fort Worth headquarters on using Sabre. And 18 Russian engineers are at American studying English and software programming. A third group of Aeroflot officials is scheduled to arrive next week. For its part, American has already committed 100 employees to the project.
When it is installed in many former Soviet republics, Sabre is expected to radically improve the nightmarish air travel system for an estimated 150 million passengers a year.
"It will bring Aeroflot from the Stone Age to the 20th century," said Boris Glasser, a Russian emigre and American's director of European business.
Mr. Glasser, who spent the first 22 years of his life in St. Petersburg before coming to the United States, described Russian air travel as a morass of endless lines, lost reservations and canceled flights. "Nothing works," he said. "The computer is always down. I once waited for three days at the airport. Aeroflot is the reason I left the Soviet Union."
 
No Way to Track Seats
 In 1990, Aeroflot reportedly had to turn away 30 percent of its ticketed passengers because there were no seats. The airline simply had no way to track the seats it sold. Tickets are not sold at the airport, only at downtown locations in Moscow and other cities. The ticket, according to George Van Derven, president of transportation automation services, a division of American's information services company, simply allows a traveler to stand on line at the airport where seats are given first to V.I.P.'s and foreigners and then provided first come, first serve to everyone else.
The concepts of advance reservations, seat assignments and boarding passes are simply nonexistent. And conditions since the breakup of the Soviet Union have only worsened, Mr. Van Derven said. "Sometimes there is no fuel, flights are canceled," he said.
The project, which began 18 months ago when I.B.M. won the contract from Aeroflot, is being hampered by political and economic uncertainty and confusion on exchange rates. But an I.B.M. spokesman said the company, which had already poured "significant money" into the project, is committed to making it work and is optimistic that the financing will be made available. The project is being coordinated by I.B.M.'s trade development office in Vienna.
"Getting Sabre into Russia is a big plus for American," said Daniel Kasper, director of transportation practice at Harbridge House, a Boston-based management consulting firm. "By getting Aeroflot, they are getting a whole virgin market."
 
Easier Travel Seen
 For United States travelers, the system will eventually make it far easier to make air travel arrangements within the former Soviet Union. Travelers, for example, will be able to book flights on Aeroflot through travel agents here.
While I.B.M. is pressing to solve the financial problems, American, acting as a subcontractor, is moving ahead on schedule. If the economic obstacles can be overcome, the project would take up to two years to complete, although the I.B.M. spokesman said computer hardware for the initial phase could be installed in a matter of months.
Mr. Van Derven, who has been American's catalyst on the project, said he had convinced Robert Crandall, American's chairman, of the value of the project by explaining that such a venture would give American access to a market with 300 million people and one-fifth of the world's land mass. He has shuttled back and forth to Moscow and the republics establishing ties to key Aeroflot personnel to make the project move ahead.
From a technical standpoint, the transfer of Sabre to Aeroflot is moving smoothly, Mr. Van Derven said, adding that the Russian programmers were "superintellectuals" who were quickly picking up the nuances of the complex system. American is intent on making the Russians self-sufficient in running the system and the engineers training in Texas will remain in the United States to work as members of actual American Airlines technical crews in Fort Worth or Tulsa, Okla.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American Airlines and I.B.M. are working to integrate Aeroflot, the world's largest airline, into American's Sabre computerized reservations system. Aeroflot employees received training yesterday at American's Fort Worth headquarters on Sabre operations. (Jarold Cabluck for The New York Times) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "The Reservation Pie" shows the percentage of U.S travel agents that use the four airline reservation systems and the owners of those systems. (Source: American Airlines) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); AEROFLOT AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); AEROFLOT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); CONTRACTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS AIRLINES (93%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (53%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992



747 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: CRASH IN WASHINGTON SQUARE;
Car Plows Into Park, Killing 4 and Injuring Many

BYLINE: By DEAN BAQUET

 BODY:
A car driven by a 74-year-old woman careered out of control yesterday afternoon and plowed into crowds of people enjoying the first clear spring day in Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village. Four people were killed, including one who died last night after surgery. As many as 27 others were injured, some critically.
The idyllic scene was suddenly and violently transformed, witnesses said. The park, packed with sunbathers, street musicians and mothers pushing strollers in the warm afternoon, gave way to a chaos of people screaming as the speeding car jumped a curb, knocked down a fence and plowed into the crowd, stopping only after banging into another fence 200 feet into the park.
 
'Bodies All Lying There'
 Two victims were trapped beneath the car when it finally came to a stop, and a group of onlookers lifted the vehicle to free them. 
 "There were bodies all lying there," said John Arnold, 30, who was working at a book stall 30 feet from the point at which the gray 1987 Oldsmobile entered the park. "There was a girl lying in the middle of a walkway about 20 feet away from her sneaker. There was a guy lying there with a smile on his face. I don't know if he was dead. It looked like they were asleep."
Sam Catlin, 23, a student at New York University, said: "It was like war, total war. So violent."
The police identified the driver of the car as Stella G. Maychick of Yonkers. They said she lost control of her car after dropping her daughter off at her apartment building on Washington Place, less than a block from the park. Mrs. Maychick was unharmed in the accident.
 
No Immediate Charges
 A preliminary police investigation determined that that Mrs. Maychick should not be charged with any crime in what was being termed an accident, said Capt. Donald Kelly, commander of the First Detective Division. But he could offer few other details of the accident, other than to say that Mrs. Maychick had not lost consciousness. He said a more detailed investigation would be conducted.
Late yesterday, the police identified the victims as: Carlos Loyla, 19, 367 South Second Street in Brooklyn; Rubin Perez, 29, 501 East 170th Street, Manhattan; Ruth Zimmerman, 76, 54 East 8th Street, Manhattan; and Carol Trocchia, 84, 51 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan.
Some witnesses said that Mrs. Maychick's car was speeding before it swerved into the park at 3:18 P.M. and that they heard a screech as the car pulled away from the daughter's apartment building. But amid the confusion yesterday afternoon, this could not be confirmed by the police.
The police said that among the possibilities being examined was that the car may have had problems with its acceleration system. The car model, a 1987 Oldsmobile Delta 88, was the subject of a two-year Federal safety investigation into possible accelerator and throttle defects.
Mrs. Maychick had an accident in Westchester County that caused injury and property damage on Sept. 4, 1991, according to New York State drivers' license records. Further details were unavailable last night. Officers were still questioning the woman late yesterday.
 
Smashed Into Fountain
 Witnesses said the car entered the park from the middle of the east side, on Washington Place, and quickly jumped the curb and smashed into a concrete fountain, hitting two people who stood near that entrance. The car then veered onto a walkway and rammed into benches, hitting people gathered in crowds. At least two people were caught under the car and dragged, witnesses said.
Richard Crespo, 21, who is unemployed and lives on the Lower East Side, said he was walking through the park with his brother, Robert Calabrese, 15, when he saw Mrs. Maychick's car swerve into the park.
Mr. Crespo said that the car hit the gate, which in turn hit his brother. "I found him under a bench about 50 feet away. There were people lying all over the place, so I had to be looking for him."
Deputy Police Commissioner Suzanne Trazoff said that Mrs. Maychick's daughter, Diana, had driven the car to her apartment in Greenwich Village. The two had been shopping in New Jersey.
"The daughter got out of the car and Mrs. Maychick slid over into the driver's seat," Commissioner Trazoff said. "She told the cops at the Sixth Precinct that when she put her foot on the gas, the car just took off."
"There was a sense there was something wrong with that," said Ms. Trazoff. But late yesterday, the reasons for the accident remained a mystery.
One of the things investigators may examine is a two-year investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that found that in some cases the throttle cable of Delta 88's, like the one Mrs. Maychick was driving, would become stuck, causing the engine to race even with the driver's foot off the pedal. The manufacturer has recalled thousands of Delta 88's from 1987, the year of Mrs. Maychick's car, to deal with the problem.
Tim Hurd, a spokesman for the safety administration, said there were 686 complaints of "unintended sudden acceleration" in the car.
But at the same time, Mr. Hurd said that in most cases in which there were accidents and drivers blamed sudden acceleration, investigations revealed the fault was actually the driver's.
"We concluded that the explanation for many of these incidents was driver error," he said. "They put their foot on the accelerator, not the brake."
Whatever the cause, witnesses portrayed a shattering scene at the park yesterday.
Andrew Margolies, a 26-year-old Emergency Medical Service paramedic who was one of the first to arrive, said, "There were just people all over the place. It was like a bomb had exploded."
Witnesses said that after the car stopped, Mrs. Maychick stepped out in a daze. People approached her, screaming. At least one person started to attack her.
The crowd moved to her car, which had at least two people pinned, lifted it and began pulling people from underneath.
Evie Hantzopoulos, a 26-year-old New York University graduate student, said: "It was like a surreal experience. We couldn't believe what was happening. It was like a movie."
"First we heard noise and it sounded like gunfire," she said. "The car was just going through and it was almost like everything was going through slow motion. People were just trying to get out of the way."
The injuries ranged from a severed leg to multiple fractures to heart attacks and shock. The injured victims were moved quickly to four nearby hospitals: Bellevue Hospital Center, Beth Israel Medical Center, Cabrini Medical Center and St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center.
A spokesman for St. Vincent's said it had eight patients, four in critical condition and four with minor injuries. One woman had both legs fractured, another a ruptured spleen and shattered pelvis, a third a fractured pelvis and a fourth severe head injuries.
Vicki Ciampa, a Bellevue spokeswoman, said five "very critical" patients were brought into the hospital's emergency room.
Cabrini Medical Center admitted four patients.
At Beth Israel, a spokeswoman, Robin Mesger, said there were three patients in stable condition, one with a compound leg fracture. "The other, I'm not quite sure of, but he seemed pretty bad," she said. "His face was badly bloodied." The atmosphere in the emergency room, she said, was "chaotic."
Witnesses said emergency personnel arrived at the park within minutes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowds in Washington Square Park trying to rescue the injured lying under a car that went out of control; A man comforted a woman yesterday after she was injured in the accident in Greenwich Village. As many as two dozen were hurt. (Photographs by George Tice)
 
Chart: "Accident in the Park: A Wave of Screams"
 Two witnesses to the accident yesterday afernoon in Washington Square Park gave this account:
 1. A woman driving a gray 1987 Oldsmobile dropped her daughter at 15 Washington Place, then drove west.
 2. Her car burst into the park at the Washington Place entrance at 3:18 P.M., smashing a concrete barrier or fountain near the curb.
 3. The car seemed to pick up speed as it weaved from side to side on the walkway. The witnesses said they heard a wave of screams moving toward them as pedestrians fell and benches toppled in the path of the car. The speed of the car was estimated by one report at 60 miles an hour, and the car traveled about one-third of a block.
 4. The car stopped near the Garibaldi statue. The driver, who appeared dazed, walked or was taken about 15 feet from the car.
 5. The witnesses said passers-by immediately surrounded the car and lifted it off several people who had been hit. Police officers arrived within a few minutes and lifted the car again to remove victims. (pg. B2)
 
Map of Manhattan showing location of Washington Square Park. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK (NYC); GREENWICH VILLAGE (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS EYEWITNESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); STREET ART (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (57%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (56%); 

PERSON: BAQUET, DEAN; MAYCHICK, STELLA G STELLA G MAYCHICK (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



748 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS REPORT PROFOUND INSIGHT ON HOW TIME BEGAN

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
In a momentous discovery supporting the "Big Bang" theory for the birth of the universe, astronomers looking back toward the beginning of time have detected broad wrinkles in the fabric of space. Their discovery is the first evidence revealing how an initially smooth cosmos evolved into today's panorama of stars, galaxies and gigantic clusters of galaxies.
The scientists detected faint temperature fluctuations in microwave radiation echoing from the supposed instant of creation. Though the temperatures fluctuate by no more than a hundred-thousandth of a degree, they signal primeval variations in the universe's topography a mere 300,000 years after its explosive birth.
 
Creation of Gravity
 The variations in topography were large enough, scientists said, to create the gravity needed to attract more and more matter into increasingly expansive clumps. These variations had been predicted by theorists but were never observed until now. 
 The discovery, made by scientists analyzing satellite data, is being hailed as one of the most exciting and important developments in cosmology in this century.
"What we have found is evidence for the birth of the universe and its evolution," said Dr. George Smoot, an astrophysicist at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and the University of California at Berkeley, who led the research.
"This is really a breakthrough, a revolution, in our understanding of the early universe," said Dr. Smoot, announcing the findings at a meeting of the American Physical Society here today.
 
Cataclysmic Explosion
 The nature of the matter creating the density "ripples" has not been determined. But the ripples themselves were created immediately by the original Big Bang. There would not have been time, the scientists said, for the texture to have changed under normal physical processes.
The Big Bang theory holds that the universe began in a single cataclysmic explosion and has been expanding ever since. The concept was first proposed to explain the discovery in the 1920's that distant galaxies are receding from view at enormous speeds, as if they started moving away from the same location a long time ago.
The theory gained its strongest previous confirmation, and wide acceptance, in 1964, when Dr. Arno Penzias and Dr. Robert Wilson of Bell Telephone Laboratories detected the hiss of microwave radiation in their radio telescope. It was the glow presumably left over from the Big Bang, existing everywhere and uniformly in cosmic background.
Astronomers assumed that as their instruments improved they would begin to see texture in this radiation, but to their dismay, when the Cosmic Background Explorer satellite, called COBE (pronounced COH-bee) by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1989, it found not the slightest hint of any initial variations out of which stars and galaxies could have developed by normal gravitational processes in the approximately 15 billion years since the Big Bang.
Where were the density fluctuations that seeded the development of large structure? It was the question astronomers have strained to answer for the last 28 years. The credibility of the Big Bang theory itself seemed to be at stake.
Describing the results as "unbelievably important," Dr. Michael Turner, an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago, said, "They have found the Holy Grail of cosmology."
Dr. Joseph Silk, an astrophysicist at the University of California at Berkeley, said: "They've really opened up the dark ages in cosmology. They've found the missing link in the evolution of large structure in the universe."
Dr. Edward Wright, a cosmologist at the University of California at Los Angeles, exclaimed, "The Big Bang model is alive and well, very well!"
 
'A Nobel-Class Result'
Noting that Dr. Penzais and Dr. Wilson won the Nobel Prize in Physics for their discovery in 1964, Dr. Stephen Maran, an astronomer at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., said: "If their measurements are as sensitive as they say, this is a Nobel-class result. It was even more difficult than detecting the microwave background."
Dr. Smoot and his colleagues said the findings not only strengthened the case for the Big Bang theory, but also for two subsidiary hypotheses about the pace of the early universe's expansion, the inflationary model, and about the existence of the so-called "cold dark matter," invisible subatomic particles believed to constitute as much as 90 percent of all the matter in the universe.
In the inflationary model, advanced a decade ago by Dr. Alan H. Guth of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the universe underwent a brief episode of extremely rapid expansion less than one-trillionth of a second after the initial explosion, then settled down to a relatively sedate pace of expansion. During inflation, tiny variations in energy from the Big Bang would become exaggerated, setting up the conditions favoring the evolution of large-scale structure.
The cold-dark matter theory, much favored by cosmologists, had suffered several setbacks recently from observational evidence suggesting that there was more large-scale structure than it could explain.
Some such exotic matter is required to provide the gravity responsible for galactic accumulations of stars and otherwise inexplicable motions of galaxies. But the dark matter has yet to be directly observed, though its presence, theorists said, should be indirectly determined through temperature difference in the background radiation.
 
Evolutionary Hypothesis
 Although most theorists at the conference favored this interpretation, Dr. Kenneth Brecher, an astrophysicist at Boston University, said the new findings did not necessarily support the evolutionary hypothesis incorporating both cold dark matter and inflationary theory.
"There is going to be a gold rush to check out our measurements," Dr. Smoot said. "Six months from now most people are going to believe inflation is right, and people had better get to work on finding the dark matter."
The decisive measurements were made by instruments on COBE that measure invisible electromagnetic radiation known as microwaves. These differential microwave radiometers recorded temperatures at three wavelengths, creating a map of the sky as it would appear if humans could see microwaves. Indeed, the map of the temperature variations looked like a topographic map with "hot" and "cold" regions marked off by contour lines.
The variations are on the order of six parts per million, detectable only after considerable computer processing of the generally cold temperature readings. The background radiation has a temperature of 454 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, barely above absolute zero, the temperature at which molecules cease to move.
Dr. Smoot said in an interview that scientists on his team had known of these results for more than a year, but had withheld any announcement until they could check and recheck for possible errors in the 70 million measurements for each of the three radiometers. "I have a reputation of being very conservative," he said, "and I believe our results are right."
Dr. Charles Bennett of the Goddard center, a member of the research team that analyzed the data, said a major challenge was to distinguish the Big Bang signals from others. "We compared the signals at different positions and at different wavelengths to separate the radiation of the Big Bang from that of the Milky Way galaxy," he said.
Dr. Smoot described the primordial cosmic texture as the "largest and most ancient structures in the universe." The largest of the wispy clouds of matter stretches 10 billion light years, or 59 billion trillion miles. The smallest span is 500 million light years, about 2.9 billion trillion miles.
"Over billions of years," Dr. Smoot said, "the smaller of these ripples have grown into galaxies, clusters of galaxies and the great voids in space."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Big Bang theory received a new boost yesterday at a meeting in Washington. "What we have found is evidence for the birth of the universe and its evolution," said Dr. George Smoot, above, an astrophysicist at the University of California at Berkeley. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)
 
Chart: "Looking Back To The Big Bang: How the Universe Began" -- The farthest look into deep space has recorded microwave radiation from featrues of space as they were billions of year ago. For the first time, scientists have evidence of early density variations that could have led to the overall large structure we see today. The new data from the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) satellite, from just 300,000 years after the theorized Big Bang, show slight temperature variations that represent subtle, broad ripples of wispy matter. As the universe expanded, scientists believe, the initial tiny irregularities coalesced into galaxies, clusters of galaxies and empty space. Diagram shows how universe expanded. (Source: NASA) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); LAWRENCE BERKELEY LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); LAWRENCE BERKELEY LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; RADIATION; MICROWAVES; TIME; STARS AND GALAXIES ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE; SMOOT, GEORGE (DR) GEORGE F SMOOT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



749 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Climbed By 10.3% in Mid-April

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Sales of cars and light trucks built in North America rose 10.3 percent in mid-April over the period a year earlier, when sales were depressed, auto makers reported yesterday. But industry analysts said they saw few optimistic signs in the sluggish seasonally adjusted selling rate of 5.5 million cars.
"The question is, where is the recovery?" said Ronald A. Glantz, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds in San Francisco. He noted that industry sources had told him that both showroom traffic and closing rates were down in the period. "Normally you have a lot of discretionary buyers in spring, but we're not getting the discretionary buyers," he said. 
 Light-truck sales increased 18.6 percent, based on an average daily selling rate, to 110,612 in the April 11-20 period, while car sales rose 5.1 percent, to 154,818. There were eight selling days in mid-April, compared with nine a year earlier.
Although some analysts said they believed the Government statistics used to calculate the seasonally adjusted selling rate of 5.5 million represented a low estimate, they nonetheless said that sales figures remained weak.
 
Several Explanations Offered
 They cited several possible explanations for the sluggish market, including fewer sales to commercial fleets, higher prices on many models and lower incentives. "But there's no obvious reason why," said Harvey Heinbach, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
Tom Webb, chief economist with the National Automobile Dealers Association, said that in light of rising employment rates and other factors, auto sales should be better. If they do not improve, he cautioned, "they are going to bring the recovery to a halt."
Dealers around the country reported mixed results in recent weeks. Sales at Herb Gordon Auto World in Silver Spring, Md., are down roughly 10 percent from a year earlier. "It's down pretty much across the board," said Richard H. Deranek Jr., Nissan sales manager at the dealership. "It's pretty quiet."
"There's no rhyme or reason to the market; it's very difficult to measure," said Robert Dreeben, general manager of Mark Subaru in Yonkers.
 
Consumer Worry Perceived
 But Jay Gould, general manager of several foreign and domestic dealerships in Texas, said sales picked up sharply in the previous two weeks, possibly because of improved weather there. Despite the gains, "there are a lot of people out there still worried about future employment prospects," he said.
The General Motors Corporation sold 73,278 cars during the period, 6.9 percent more than a year earlier, and 39,109 trucks, up 7.1 percent.
The Ford Motor Company sold 39,941 cars, up 10.7 percent from a year earlier, and 39,578 light trucks, up 25.7 percent.
The Chrysler Corporation reports its vehicle sales only once a month, but Ward's Automotive Reports, an industry publication, estimated the company sold 14,750 cars and 26,550 mini-vans and other light trucks in the 10-day period.
The Honda Motor Company sold 11,601 cars, an increase of 13.1 percent, while the Toyota Motor Corporation sold 7,341 cars, an increase of 15.3 percent. Toyota achieved its gains largely because of the popularity of its redesigned Camry model, which is assembled in Georgetown, Ky.
The Mazda Motor Corporation and the Nissan Motor Company both reported continued declines in sales of cars made at their American plants. Nissan's sales dropped 21.9 percent, to 2,628, and Mazda's dropped 22.1 percent, to 2,112.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (61%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



750 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Bush Eases Cold-War Trade Curb

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
President Bush announced this evening that the United States had loosened some controls on militarily sensitive exports and that he had ordered an acceleration of negotiations for a free trade agreement with Mexico, believing a pact possible before the November elections.
The Commerce Department disclosed three changes today in its export control regulations, to take effect next Tuesday. The changes allow more high-technology products with specific or potential applications in the operation and detection of aircraft and submarines to be shipped to Western Europe and Japan without export licenses. They would also impose fewer controls on re-exports of American high-technology goods from these countries. 
 "We relaxed trade restrictions on exports that served us well during the cold-war era, but are no longer necessary in our new world," Mr. Bush said at a meeting here of the Council of the Americas, a group of business executives from the United States, Canada and Latin American countries. The move is aimed at increasing exports as national-security threats appear to be dwindling, the President said. He said that $2.5 billion worth of annual American exports would no longer require licenses.
 
Supercomputers Involved
 The Commerce Department added nine categories of products to its list of goods that may be exported to Western Europe and Japan without prior Government approval; allowed foreign countries to re-export some American products without the Federal Government's permission, and allowed American companies to sell supercomputers to nine European countries and Australia with a single license, instead of seeking a separate license for each shipment.
High-technology American companies, particularly in the computer industry, have complained bitterly that the long delays involved in obtaining licenses have discouraged potential overseas customers and encouraged them to buy from other countries instead. But some arms control experts contend that looseness in American export control standards helped Iraq build up its army and communications networks and made it a more formidable opponent during the Persian Gulf war.
Mainly, President Bush used his speech tonight to bring public attention to negotiations for a free-trade agreement covering all of North America and to the Administration's plan for a more open trade and investment climate across the entire Western Hemisphere.
"Before I leave office I want manufacturers in Cleveland to enjoy virtually the same access to markets in Monterrey as they now have in Minneapolis," he said.
Congressional Democrats from auto-producing states criticized the President's call for accelerated negotiations. "The President's eagerness to conclude an agreement before the November elections makes me wonder if he understands the impact on the U.S. of a hastily negotiated" pact, said Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan.
Earlier today, Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche of Mexico expressed considerable optimism to business executives at the same conference that an agreement could be concluded soon. One of his senior deputies told several reporters that he expected significant progress next week when most of the 19 negotiating groups for the three-nation pact meet in Mexico City. Yet, Mexican officials have consistently expressed optimism while offering few concessions, a senior Administration official said.
The main issues blocking an agreement are Mexico's reluctance to allow foreign investment in some oil industry activities; United States insistence that cars made in Mexico have many of their parts made in North America instead of imported from Japan, and requests by American and Canadian negotiators that some of their tariffs be reduced over longer periods than the current 10-year limit.
The President did not offer any specific reasons to support his belief that an agreement might be concluded by November; nor was his support for a prompt pact new. When asked by reporters on Feb. 27 in San Antonio, whether an agreement could be struck this year, Mr. Bush replied, "Well, we're hoping so, yes."
Many Republican strategists inside and outside the Administration feel that an agreement could help the President lure Hispanic voters in large states like Texas and California. But senior Administration officials say that it is very unlikely now that an agreement will be finished early enough to allow Congress to review it and vote on its approval.
 
Global Trade Mentioned
 The President mentioned only briefly this evening his support for a global agreement reducing trade barriers. His negotiations on Wednesday with European Community leaders failed to break a 16-month-old deadlock in the talks.
The easing of export-control restrictions brought a hostile response today from critics of the Administration's arms export-control policies, but did not go as far as sought by American exporters of computers and other high-technology products.
Gary Milhollin, the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, said the Administration's decision was imprudent given the accumulation of evidence that many Western companies, including some in the United States, exported militarily useful products to Iraq during the 1980's.
"We should learn something from the gulf war," he said. "Here we are rushing out to change things when we're still trying to track the stuff down that we sold to Iraq."
But John Scheibel, the staff director of the Democratic-controlled House Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade, said the export control changes were mostly cosmetic.
The nine categories are semiconductor manufacturing equipment, certain computers, test equipment for aircraft and gas turbine engine design, coatings equipment, acoustical gear, materials and production equipment, certain aircraft and helicopters, and two groups of submarine gear.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Declining Need" shows the U.S. export licenses issued annually, in thousands from '86-'82 (Est.) (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); GULF STATES (53%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WESTERN EUROPE (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); GULF STATES (53%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; LICENSES EXPORT TRADE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



751 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Cheers as Ex-Mayor of Washington Leaves Prison

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHNSTOWN, Pa., Aug. 23

 BODY:
The former Mayor of Washington, Marion S. Barry Jr., emerged from prison today and strode straight into the capital's politics by casually and confidently listing the City Council seats for which he might decide to run this fall.
In the course of his serving six months for cocaine possession, there has been wide speculation that Mr. Barry would run for the City Council this fall. Though he said that he had no specific plans, he immediately pointed out, "There are a number of seats open in the district." 
 Carrying a Bible and wearing an African textile hat and scarf almost identical to the ones he wore on the day he went to jail, Mr. Barry tried to bring his criminal episode to a close at a rally at a motel.
 
Taped Using Cocaine
 It has been two years since agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation videotaped him smoking crack cocaine with a woman friend at a Washington hotel. The arrest brought about his downfall as the leader of a coalition of diverse interest groups in the capital.
His re-emergence into the spotlight this afternoon took place on the sun-baked asphalt parking lot of the Days Inn here, where a rally and a luncheon was held in his honor. The motel is about 40 miles from the Federal prison in Loretto, Pa.
Supporters who came from Washington in a six-bus caravan sang gospel hymns and waited impatiently about an hour for Mr. Barry's cadre of handlers to set up his carefully orchestrated entrance.
Most were longtime backers of the former mayor who sat through his trial and saw him off when he was imprisoned. About 200 people from the Union Temple Baptist Church in Washington came in the bus caravan. When Mr. Barry's aides tried to prolong the suspense before his entrance, the crowd of mostly middle-aged women rebelled.
 
'Let Him Loose'
 "We want Barry," one yelled, while others shouted revival meeting-style: "Give us Barry, let him loose."
As the crowd was singing "Victory is Mine," Mr. Barry suddenly emerged and, appearing unfamiliar with the lyrics of the hymn, sang a few lines and then just smiled and waved his Bible at the cheering group.
Then he met with reporters to discuss what his future might hold:
"I have a number of options -- I cannot get involved ever again in my lifetime, I can wait and run later, or I can get involved this year."
He pointed out that several City Council seats would be open and that "the way the law in the district works, if I want to run I can move into the ward and run 30 days later."
He was convicted in August 1990 -- five months before the end of his third term as mayor -- on one misdemeanor count of cocaine possession. A jury acquitted Mr. Barry of another count and deadlocked on 12 other drug-related charges. A Federal judge rejected an appeal of the conviction only a week ago.
Mr. Barry was sentenced to six months in jail, and originally sent to a minimum-security facility in Virginia last October. But in January, Mr. Barry was moved to a more tightly controlled prison in Pennsylvania after being accused of engaging in a public sex act with a woman who visited him in prison. Mr. Barry denied the accusation.
If the former mayor intends to refashion his political career as a City Council member, he began today by presenting himself as a new man who found God, self-discipline and the plight of black convicts while in prison.
"I gained the realization that I came to experience a spiritual power outage," Mr. Barry said, his voice taking on the cadence of a religious sermon. "It caused me to get my life out of balance and out of control.
"I come out of prison better, not bitter," he shouted to a chorus of "Yes sir" and "Amen" from the crowd.
There is little doubt that if Mr. Barry runs for a council seat in one of Washington's poor, predominantly black wards he would have strong support. Many voters there think of Mr. Barry as the son of a Mississippi sharecropper who fought his way to the top of local politics but floundered when he made the mistake of using drugs. Most of these people seem to believe Mr. Barry has paid for that bad judgment.
"If he runs for anything, I will definitely vote for him," said Alberta Davis, a 68-year-old retired computer technician who got up at 5 A.M. to join the bus caravan.
Mark Plotkin, a political commentator for WAMU Radio in Washington, said Mr. Barry's "chances are pretty good. He's proven he can win Ward 8, which is the most economically deprived, voters there are the most forgiving, and the most open to his message."
That possibility has led Washington's Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly, and other City Council members to rally behind the Ward 8 council incumbent.
Before he was imprisoned, Mr. Barry was active in Ward 8, where the incumbent, Wilhelmina Rolark, has held the seat for 16 years. In 1990, before he was imprisoned, Mr. Barry made an unsuccessful bid for an at-large City Council seat. He lost, due mostly to widespread rejection in predominantly white areas, but in Ward 8 he got 2,000 more votes than Mrs. Rolark has ever received in a single election. Mrs. Rolark has declined to be interviewed about the possible threat from Mr. Barry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As soon as Marion S. Barry Jr., the former Mayor of Washington, was released from prison yesterday in Johnstown, Pa., he was talking about running for one of the available City Council seats. He was embraced at a luncheon held to celebrate the end of his six-month term. (Stephen Crowley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); PRISONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); COCAINE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); RELIGION (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY, MARION S JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



752 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Bush announced that the U.S. had loosened some controls on militarily sensitive exports and that he believed a free-trade pact could be concluded with Mexico before the elections. [D1.]
High, punitive duties on imports of Canadian beer are close, Administration officials said. [D2.] 
 A strike for higher pay by 2.6 million German public service workers appeared unavoidable. [D13.]
 
Companies
The S.E.C. has disciplined the man who ran Fidelity Investments' $1.7 billion junk-bond fund during the 80's, William H. Pike, for falsifying records of fund dealings with Drexel. [D1.]
Dr Pepper/Seven Up filed a registration statement with the S.E.C. to issue stock publicly. [D3.]
Alexander's finally seems to be facing facts as it tries to get itself out of retailing and into real estate. News Analysis. [D1.]
Du Pont has agreed to exchange its acrylic business for Imperial Chemical's nylon fiber unit. [D3.]
Because of Olympia & York's prominence in New York City real estate, its every move is getting close scrutiny. [B1.]
The U.S. will try to seize mosts assets of a car dealer in Long Island accused of defrauding G.M. of $436 million. [B4.]
 
Earnings
Exxon, Texaco and Occidental posted sharply lower earnings. Ashland Oil said it lost $9 million. The reports extend the pattern of depressed results for the global oil industry. [D1.]
American Express reported a 5.7 percent drop in earnings before an accounting change to cover income taxes. [D4.]
Johnson & Johnson and SmithKline Beecham reported double-digit profit increases, but both said U.S. drug sales had fallen. [D4.]
MCI said earnings rose 8.5 percent, citing growth in its large-contract business market, especially with the Government. [D4.]
McDonald's posted an 11 percent rise in earnings, fueled by strong growth overseas. [D4.]
 
The Economy
Orders for durable goods climbed 1.6 percent in March, and a small February downturn has been revised away. [D1.]
Sales of North American-built vehicles rose 10.3 percent in mid-April over the period a year earlier. [D2.]
Initial jobless claims fell by 12,000 in mid-April, a sign that the recovery is beginning to help workers. [D2.]
The revival of U.S. manufacturing, one of the brightest spots in the 1980's economic landscape, may have been less spectacular than Government data have been showing. [D1.]
The Administration's likely nominee for Comptroller of the Currency is reportedly James E. Gilleran, a senior bank regulator in California. [D4.]
 
Markets
Stocks ended a seesaw session with a mild gain as investors wiped out some midday losses. The Dow rose 9.84, to 3,348.61. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds staged a late recovery to close narrowly mixed. [D13.]
Wheat futures prices rose sharply amid expectations for accelerated Russian food aid. [D14.] The dollar was mixed. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Does the deficit matter? Some dismiss it, but many economists still see it as a root cause of economic weakness. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
And now, coming to a commercial near you, footage from classic films to enliven ads. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
Tandy could be reinvigorated by its Incredible Universe superstores, some analysts say. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); FMR CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); S E C (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: S E C (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); BOND FUNDS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); ACCOUNTING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



753 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Big Business and Labor Join to Oppose Citizen Laws in New Jersey

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 23

 BODY:
Despite broad opposition by powerful lobbies, a bill to allow citizen lawmaking will be ready for a floor vote by mid-May, a committee chairman said today, making it possible to have the measure appear on the ballot in the general election in the fall.
A parade of opponents ranging from big labor unions to the state Chamber of Commerce to Roman Catholic bishops -- all major lobbying groups fearful of laws drawn by ordinary citizens -- lined up to oppose the bill at a committee hearing today. 
 Before the hearing, two citizens' groups, Common Cause and the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, held a news conference to release figures showing that the groups opposing citizen legislation spent more than $3 million in the last two years to elect favored candidates and promote favored bills.
 
'Most Extremist Elements'
 In their testimony, the opponents said repeatedly that allowing citizens to make or repeal laws through the process called Initiative and Referendum would allow "extremists" and "big-money interests" to push through legislation without deliberation by legislative committees.
"One only need to look at the proponents of I and R," as the process is called in legislative shorthand of the State House, "to recognize they are dominated by the most extremist elements in our society, both on the extreme left and the extreme right," said James C. Morford, executive director of the New Jersey Society for Environmental, Economic Development, a lobbying group that opposes environmental and other regulations on business and industry.
In addition to Common Cause and the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, the major organizations backing Initiative and Referendum are the League of Women Voters and two grass-roots antitax groups, Hands Across New Jersey and United Taxpayers of New Jersey.
Testifying against the concept today were representatives of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce, which represents large and small businesses throughout the state, the New Jersey Education Association, which represents 138,000 teachers, the Employer Legislative Committees of New Jersey, representing small businesses, and the New Jersey Catholic Conference, which represents the state's 14 Catholic bishops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH ; COMMON CAUSE (ORGN); PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP; LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS STATE HOUSE PRESS (55%); COMMON CAUSE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH ; COMMON CAUSE (ORGN); PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP; LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS COMMON CAUSE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PUBLIC OPINION; LABOR UNIONS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS ; BUSINESS ROLE IN POLITICS REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



754 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Notes and Bonds Narrowly Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds staged a late recovery to close narrowly mixed yesterday.
Bond prices fell as much as half a point early in the session after the Government issued economic reports that were seen by traders as further evidence of a recovery. 
 The 1.6 percent gain in durable goods orders reported for March was roughly in line with expectations, even though some analysts noted that the overall gain masked troubling pockets of weakness.
Prices weakened somewhat on the durable goods report, but the bulk of the early selling took place after the Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 12,000 during the week ended April 11, the third decline in succession.
Most analysts had been expecting the claims numbers would show an increase. To traders, the decline implied that April employment data may be considerably stronger than expected.
While acknowledging the figures represent a somewhat brighter job outlook, some analysts said that credit market participants are reading too much into the recent numbers.
"There is no question that there is some improvement in the labor market," said Steven Slifer, an executive vice president and financial market economist at Lehman Brothers.
"But in the aftermath of the recessions in 1980 and 1982, it took declines in initial claims of 200,000 or so before you began to see meaningful increases in employment."
"People look at these numbers and say the recovery is on its way," Mr. Slifer added. "But the fact is that every time bond yields go higher, the rise threatens to reduce or wipe out growth."
The release of those two sets of figures came before the Treasury auctioned $10 billion worth of five-year notes.
Bids at the auction produced an average yield of 6.93 percent for the new securities, essentially unchanged from the 6.94 percent average yield at the last five-year note auction on March 25. Traders said the auction went about as expected. However, prices began to turn shortly after the results were announced.
Dismal 10-day auto sales numbers, which trickled in throughout the session, may have helped spark the price rebound.
 
Weekly Money Supply Data
 In addition, the weekly money supply figures from the Federal Reserve Board were in line with expectations.
The Fed said the two broadest money measures it follows rose in the week ended April 13. M-1, the narrowest measure, fell $1.1 billion.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 9915/32 , down 7/32 , to yield 8.04 percent, compared with 8.03 percent late Wednesday.
Prices of outstanding Treasury note issues, which had been lower early in the session, rallied to close slightly higher.
The 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered late yesterday at 9922/32 , up 1/32 , to yield 7.54 percent. And the 7 percent seven-year notes were offered at 9829/32 , up 2/32 , to yield 7.20 percent.
In the wake of the auction the new five-year notes also registered price gains. In late trading, they were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 6.87 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were unchanged to slightly lower.
Three-month bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 3.66 percent, down one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged at a late offered rate of 3.83 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by four basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.07 percent.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, J. P. Morgan Securities acted as lead manager on two debt offerings.
The investment-banking subsidiary of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company was lead manager on a $200 million sale of 30-year debentures for Tyco Labs, and $200 million of 10-year subordinated notes for Kansallis Banking Group, a Finnish bank holding company.
The 9 1/2 percent noncallable securities were priced at $99.763, to yield 9.524 percent, 1.47 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 at the time of pricing. The securities are rated Ba-3 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
The $200 million worth of 10 percent subordinated notes sold by the Kansallis Banking Group were priced at $99.375, to yield 10.10 percent, 2.50 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The noncallable securities are rated A-3 by Moody's and BBB by Standard & Poor's.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal securities, traders said that prices of most widely quoted bonds fell by about 1/4 point.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year Treasury notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.771
Average Yield . . . 6.93%
Low Price . . . 99.729
High Yield . . . 6.94%
High Price . . . 99.812
Low Yield . . . 6.92%
Accepted at low price . . . 89%
Total applied for . . . $22,357 504
Accepted . . . $10,268,018
N.Y. applied for . . . $20,489,271
N.Y. accepted . . . $9,579,121
Noncompetitive . . . $856,000
Interest set at . . . 6 7/8%
 
The five-year notes mature April 30, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "5-Year Treasury Notes" shows the average yields at quarterly auctions in percent, from '90-'92. (Source: Treasury Department); "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, from Jan.-April, 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



755 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: This Space for Rent: Red Square on May Day

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 23

 BODY:
Red Square is getting ready for a new May Day look. Posters of happy workers and peasants are out of fashion, as are giant portraits of Lenin, the founder of the Soviet state. This year, for its first post-Communist spring holiday, the city of Moscow is offering Red Square as a giant backdrop for Western advertisments, which will run from walls of the Kremlin to the airspace over the mausoleum where Lenin's body still lies in state.
The idea is just a week old and already an American company has expressed an interest in one-day monopoly rights to Red Square, for the round sum of $1 million, said an official at the Itar-Tass news agency, which is handling the account. 
 "A couple of companies have expressed interest in parts of the package, but one company has said they would like to buy the whole thing," said the official, Igor Makurin. Mr. Makurin is director of international business development for Itar-Tass, successor to the old Tass, which was once the official mouthpiece of the Kremlin.
By the whole thing, Mr. Makurin meant three sides of Red Square and two blimps flying above. To avoid assertions of disrespect, no advertising space is being sold by St. Basil's Cathedral or by Lenin's tomb. But a billboard will be available next to -- not on -- the Kremlin wall behind the traditional spectators' viewing stand, along the giant facade of the GUM department store, and down the side of the Moscow History Museum.
Each space has its own price, but the price for the whole is a non-negotiable $1 million, said Mr. Makurin, a former New York correspondent who said he had reactivated his old network of contacts to drum up business for the May Day extravaganza.
This year, the city of Moscow has decided to hold a big party on May Day rather than imitate the old parade of workers and Communist Party stalwarts who used to flock by the Lenin Mausoleum, waving posters and flowers at members of the Politburo lined up on top.
The festivities will be split between Red Square, the Manezh Square next to it, and the Alexander Gardens, which lie on the other side of the Kremlin. They will feature 3,000 performers, from the Bolshoi Theater to church choirs, who will play, sing and dance in five separate arenas, said Valery M. German, commercial director of the May 1 holiday.
With prices here rising almost weekly, the cost of the event soon stretched beyond the city's means, leading organizers this month to look for "sponsors." The word is common in Russia today as institutions, from schools to circuses, look for a magic solution to their financial crises. "Red Square is not for sale," Mr. German said, a bit defensively, "Sponsors of our holiday will simply have the right to display their advertising there."
After the holidays, which will turn into a long weekend for Russians, whatever is left from the $1 million the city hopes to get from the Red Square advertising will go back to the city budget, Mr. German said.
The main point of the holiday is to return to a traditional celebration of spring, which has been held on Red Square since the 12th century. "Until 1917 we had such celebrations, and now we have decided to return to them, after an unnatural interruption," Mr. German said.
Muscovites have already become used to buses and trolleys covered in advertisments for Pepsi-Cola and Camel cigarettes. Billboards for computers, chocolate bars and commodity exchanges are also commonplace. But organizers of the May Day event are conscious that advertisements on Red Square are likely to rub some people the wrong way.
Mr. Makurin emphasized that no one was interested in breaking taboos. "The mausoleum is not good for this kind of activity," he said, "but a commercial store like GUM? What is wrong with that? It is commercial district, and advertising is part of commerce."
"Some will be opposed," he said, "but then we are not voting for anything unanimously anymore. I don't think it will provoke any public discussion, or another revolution."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: GUM OAO (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAY DAY SPONSORSHIP (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER (72%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); RETAILERS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); HISTORY (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE IGOR MAKURIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



756 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Filing Fewer Claims

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
Initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 12,000 in mid-April, the Government said today.
The Labor Department said the number of newly laid off workers applying for unemployment insurance for the first time declined in the week ended April 11 to a seasonally adjusted 404,000. 
 The decline was the third consecutive weekly drop and pushed the number of claims down to the lowest level since 401,000 applications were filed in the week ended Oct. 5.
"We're now back down to a level consistent with employment growth," said Robert G. Dederick, an economist with the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
The four-week moving average, which many analysts prefer to track, fell to 427,250 in the latest report. It had been 438,000 the previous week.
 The Bush Administration, under criticism this election year for failing to do enough to improve economic growth, welcomed the report.
"America's labor market is looking stronger with each passing week," said Labor Secretary Lynn Martin. "It's not time yet to celebrate, but the three straight weeks of declining initial claims for unemployment insurance indicate that the fruits of the recovery are now reaching American workers and their families."
Still, many analysts believe that the overall jobless rate, at 7.3 percent in March, will not improve significantly for several months since employers often delay hiring until a lasting recovery seems sure.
The unemployment rate was 7.3 percent in February and March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NORTHERN TRUST CORP (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



757 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
American Express Net 76% Higher in Quarter

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
With its credit card business slumping, the American Express Company reported yesterday a 5.7 percent drop in first-quarter earnings to $249 million, or 51 cents a share, before an accounting change to cover income taxes.
However, after the accounting change, net income for the first quarter rose 76 percent to $465 million, or 95 cents a share, from $264 million, or 55 cents a share, in the comparable period a year ago. 
 Analysts described the quarter as part of an extended transition at American Express.
"We're beginning to see the first effects of some very important programs," said John Keefe, an independent securities analyst. While customer charge volume increased by 9 percent in the quarter, he pointed out, revenue from fees grew by only 5 percent, reflecting the cut in rates that American Express charges.
"They still have a long list of things to do, and they're about one-quarter of the way there," Mr. Keefe said. "There are big organizational changes that have to be made, that will ultimately be very healthy for the company."
Revenues at the financial services company rose to $6.68 billion from $6.34 billion.
American Express stock rose yesterday by 50 cents, to $23.50, on the New York Stock Exchange. The earnings report was released after the market's close.
 
Shearson Is Leading Earner
 With the boom on Wall Street, American Express's biggest money maker has now become Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., its investment banking subsidiary.
Shearson's income before the accounting change rose 39.2 percent to $71 million, from $51 million a year earlier. Shearson's net in the 1992 period grew to $140 million, and its effective tax rate went to 48 percent from 20 percent in 1991's first quarter. In 1990, Shearson lost $966 million.
Shearson revenues, after paying interest expense, went up 16 percent to $1.6 billion from $1.3 billion in 1991's first quarter.
 
Credit Card Unit's Net Off
 In contrast to Shearson's performance, earnings at the Travel Related Services unit -- once the company's fastest-growing division -- declined 22.8 percent, to $125 million, from $162 million in the first quarter last year. T.R.S., as it is called within the company, includes the popular green card, as well as the company's other cards.
"What's interesting is that T.R.S. is running into difficulties just as the terrible problems at Shearson have been overcome," said Perrin Long, a securities analyst at First of Michigan in Detroit. "Difficulties at this stage are understandable. The company has had massive expenditures to keep at the forefront of the credit card business."
The company blamed increased marketing and promotion costs for the losses, which offset gains from lower interest rates. Competition among credit card businesses has been fierce, Mr. Long noted, and the travel business is likely to remain slow until the economy fully recovers.
At IDS Financial Services, the Minneapolis money managment unit, profits rose 19 percent to $61 million from $51 million a year earlier. IDS's mutual fund and annuitiy sales have risen steadily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



758 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: A Reform Plan In California

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 23

 BODY:
A commission appointed by Gov. Pete Wilson to study California's deteriorating economy issued a stark warning today that the state faces a long-term decline in its competitiveness unless it undertakes sweeping reforms.
The bipartisan commission, which was headed by Peter V. Ueberroth, concluded that California "has real problems, and they are only going to get worse." 
 The commission recommended a series of reforms, most of which have long been discussed among business executives and elected officials and few of which stand much chance of being enacted soon.
Among them were recommendations that the state reform its workers' compensation insurance system, which is among the costliest and most fraud-ridden in the nation.
Other proposals included streamlining the state's regulatory processes to reduce the burden on business, and doing more to attract and retain industries that provide skilled, high-paying jobs.
Mr. Ueberroth, the former baseball commissioner, who is often mentioned a possible Republican political candidate, said many of the problems were worsened by the paralysis of the state government.
"We need to remove impediments to business so they can grow and create new jobs," Mr. Ueberroth said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (69%); BASEBALL (52%); 

PERSON: WILSON, PETE (GOV); UEBERROTH, PETER V PETE BARTON WILSON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



759 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Revival: A Shade Below Glorious

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
The revival of United States manufacturing, one of the brightest spots in the 1980's economic landscape, may have been less spectacular than Government data have been showing.
New estimates from the Commerce and Labor Departments show that on three fronts manufacturing performance from 1977 to 1989 was more modest than previously thought. The output of American factories grew only two-thirds as fast; manufacturing's share of the economy is smaller, and the glorious gains in factory productivity previously reported now look less glorious. 
 The Labor Department now says, for example, that real output per hour in manufacturing grew 1.9 percent a year over the period, not the 2.7 percent in the old statistics.
"The revisions are large, and they change our view of the recovery in manufacturing," said Robert Z. Lawrence, an economist at the Kennedy School of Government.
Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, commented: "It's a more muted version of what we thought before. There was clearly a revival of productivity growth in the 1980's, and manufacturing is not disappearing."
But the new numbers, he acknowledged, show the revival "wasn't as robust as with the old measures."
The trouble with the old numbers is that the Government, in order to compare output in different years, uses prices in one year, the base year, to value gross domestic product over time. This greatly exaggerates the contribution of fast-growing industries, like computers, in which prices have been falling.
The new estimates are preliminary and some additional revisions, reflecting more detailed information on different manufacturing industries, are likely before the final figures are published this fall. Economists at the Commerce and Labor Departments warned that for technical reasons the new estimates might be understating manufacturing output in the late 1970's and early 1980's.
But Edwin R. Dean, associate commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said, "It does look as if -- after all the improvements in the data come in -- we will still have a slightly less rosy picture than we had before the revision."
The more subdued statistical portrait of the manufacturing rebound is likely to intensify the debate over the Reagan-Bush economic track record and provide new ammunition for those who argue that Washington should play a bigger role in industry.
"This will strengthen the momentum for industrial policy," predicted Lawrence R. Mishel, research director of the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research organization.
And Robert B. Reich, a political economist at the Kennedy School who is an adviser to Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the front-runner for the Democratic Presidential nomination, said: "Public investment is important. Efforts to improve manufacturing technologies may be critical. The question remains whether we can trust government with the job."
To be sure, the revisions do not wipe out the manufacturing rebound. Manufacturing productivity in the United States is still the highest in the world and still grew twice as fast in the 1980's as it did in the 1970's.
 
'Storm in a Teacup'
 "One should be wary of concluding that the share of manufacturing in the economy really declined," said Gordon Richards, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers. "This is a storm in a teacup."
The problem is that during the 1970's United States manufacturing productivity grew only about one- third as fast as among America's trading partners. And while the United States narrowed the gap during the 1980's, it did not -- as the old figures implied -- close it entirely.
The new manufacturing figures are the product of a major updating of the nation's core economic statistics. The results have been released piecemeal since December.
"The surprise was the magnitude of the effect on manufacturing," said Robert Parker, associate commissioner of the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the Commerce Department.
Earlier revisions of gross domestic product released in December showed that business investment, another yardstick of competitiveness, grew more slowly from 1977 to 1990 than the previous data showed and that investment's share of G.D.P. was no higher than in the 1970's.
"The revision of business investment was even more startling than the latest revisions for manufacturing," said Barry P. Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
 
Seemingly Innocuous Fix
 A seemingly innocuous technical change -- measuring inflation-adjusted G.D.P. and its components in 1987 prices instead of 1982 prices -- accounted for much of the downward revision in manufacturing output and productivity.
In order to be able to compare G.D.P. in different years, Government statisticians try to remove the effects of inflation by converting output reported in actual dollars into output in a single year's prices, say, the prices that prevailed in some base year. Periodically the base year is moved forward. In December, the Commerce Department switched from 1982 to 1987 prices in valuing inflation-adjusted G.D.P. but did not get around to restating the output of individual sectors of the economy like manufacturing.
Until recently the Commerce Department had been valuing a computer sold last year as if it cost the same as it did in 1982. But in fact, the cost of computing power has fallen by half, thanks to rapid innovation. "The computer on your desk that you bought for $3,000 would have cost $6,000 or more in 1982, " said Robert Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University.
"Not surprisingly the use of 1982 prices made the computer industry look twice as big relative to the rest of the economy." And since computer manufacturing was one of the fastest- growing industries, manufacturing's growth rate -- as well as those of investment, exports and imports -- were also exaggerated.
 
Computers and Productivity
 To give an idea of the large effect of computers on measured productivity, Mr. Mishel pointed out that productivity in durables manufacturing averaged 3.7 from 1979 to 1989 (using the old data). But productivity in computers grew 8.3 percent while productivity growth elsewhere rose at a modest 2.2 percent.
And indeed, Mr. Mishel said, the entire downward revision in manufacturing is caused by a lower estimate of durables output.
Statisticians had expected the shift from 1982 to 1987 prices to reduce growth in the 1980's. "Quite often using a new base will reduce G.D.P. growth because of sectors with lots of technological change whose prices are falling," said Mr. Parker at the Commerce Department.
But they were startled by the magnitude of the change.
"I knew there were going to be big effects, but I was surprised at how big," said Jack E. Triplett, chief economist at the Bureau of Economic Analysis. "If we had known how big we would have done something about it years ago."
 
Another Solution
 To prevent future surprises, economists at the Commerce Department have decided to solve the problem once and for all by publishing alternative measures to constant-dollar G.D.P. for the purposes of comparing changes in output over periods longer than a few years. The new indexes, sometimes called chain indexes, use a rolling average of different years' prices instead of prices of a single year.
The new indexes will not, however, displace the traditional constant dollar measures.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Manufacturing in the 1980's, Revised for the Worse" shows the manufacturing output as a percentage of G.D.P. from '60-'90., The average annual change in output per labor hour in manufacturing, and the real growth of business investment in plant and equipment from 1948-1989. (Sources: Department of Commerce; Bureau of Labor Statistics); "Cheaper Computers" shows computer processor price index from '80-'90. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Bureau of Economic Analysis).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BOSKIN, MICHAEL J RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



760 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Amount of Cut Is Reduced In Dinkins Capital Budget

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
New York City will cut its capital budget for long-term construction by 15.6 percent over the next four years, a move that will mean less money for jails, sanitation, parks and street repairs, Mayor David N. Dinkins announced yesterday.
But the $2 billion spending reduction was not as deep as the 30 percent cut of $3.7 billion that the Dinkins administration proposed in January as necessary to reduce the soaring debt service that the city pays on bonds used to finance the rebuilding. 
 The Mayor said yesterday that his budget aides had devised a way to restore $1.7 billion of the proposed cuts in the $10.27 billion capital budget but still reduce the interest and principal that the city pays on its bonds. Budget planning is done by the city for four-year periods, with specific budgets then issued for each fiscal year.
Details of exactly how the Dinkins administration plans to spend more on capital projects without increasing its debt payments were released for the first time yesterday as part of the Mayor's executive budget for capital spending.
 
'Still a Lot of Pain'
 By 1996, the city expects to spend 20 cents of every dollar in tax revenues to pay debt service on bonds, a figure that bond rating agencies have said is too high and must be reduced. City budget officials had estimated that the proposed $3.7 billion in cuts in the capital budget would save $250 million in debt service by 1996. They now say they will only have to cut $2 billion but will still realize the $250 million in savings.
"I'm pleased to announce a debt-service savings plan that will sustain the lion's share of our capital commitments without flinching from our original commitment to trim debt service by $250 million," Mr. Dinkins said. "There's still a lot of pain in this plan, but I believe that we have reconciled the need for bricks and mortar with the need for budgetary balance and sound management."
Under the Mayor's capital plan, the city will restore $1 billion in capital spending cuts by reconfiguring the timetables for building and financing the capital projects.
In the past, the city determined how many capital projects it could afford based on the higher long-term interest prevailing, even though some projects took less time to complete than others and generally were financed at lower interest. Now the city will plan all its capital projects based on their costs and duration, which budget officials said will allow them to pay for more projects.
Fiscal monitors, bond dealers and construction officials had expressed concern that deep cutbacks in capital spending risked damaging the city's fragile infrastructure even further and would hurt the economy, costing the city construction jobs.
 
Welcomed by Rohatyn
 Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier who heads the state's Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was set up during the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's to sell bonds for the city, said yesterday that he was delighted that the Mayor had found a way to restore many of the capital spending cuts. "We think the restorations are good for the city and the economy," Mr. Rohatyn said.
As Mr. Dinkins noted, his capital budget does not come without pain. The city's capital spending will drop to $10.7 billion over the next four years from a planned $12.2 billion. The cut will mean that dozens of new schools will not be delayed and hundreds of low- and moderate-income apartments will not be built.
Cuts in the capital budget for highways will mean street reconstruction and resurfacing projects will be deferred, resulting in bumpier streets. And the city is also deferring jail construction, which budget officials said is less of a priority now because of a less crowding in city jails due to new efforts to speed court processing and send more inmates to state jails.
City officials said yesterday that capital spending on bridge reconstruction, courts, libraries and cultural institutions remained intact, as have water and sewer public-works projects, which are financed by separate bonds backed by water rates.
 
'Good News'
 "We have never sought to portray chicken filet as filet mignon," said Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, referring to the capital budget. "These restorations are good news, but all they mean is that we are not up against the wall as close as we were."
The Mayor's capital budget plan also restores $700 million for school reconstruction and repair by using state allocations for school rebuilding to pay the debt on the bonds that would finance the increased educational capital spending.
Budget officials said that in the past the city has not applied for its full share of the state education money, which is based on the amount of school rebuilding that municipalities undertake. The officials said the city has substantially raised its school capital spending in recent years and thus will qualify for a larger share of the state money.
Currently, the city receives about $40 million a year in state rebuilding funds, which the city has long used for general education spending. Budget officials said they expected the city to qualify for about $95 million of these state funds by 1996. They will continue to give $40 million to general fund but will use the additional $55 million for debt service.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Capital Spending: The Revised Dinkins Budget" shows revised figures for New York City's capital budget from fiscal year 1993 to fiscal year 1996 (Source: New York City Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); MAYORS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SIMS, CALVIN DAVID N DINKINS (83%); FELIX G ROHATYN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



761 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
More Oil Companies Report Sharp Declines in Earnings

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 23

 BODY:
Three large oil companies, Exxon, Texaco and Occidental Petroleum, reported sharply lower quarterly earnings today. A large refiner, Ashland Oil, said it lost $9 million in the period.
Exxon's profit declined by 39.7 percent, while Texaco's plunged by 51.8 percent and Occidental's by 27.9 percent. Results at Exxon and Occidental were bolstered by special one-time gains unrelated to business operations. 
 The reports extend the pattern of depressed first-quarter operating results for the global oil industry, a result of recession in the United States, lower crude and natural-gas prices, and weaker profits in gasoline refining and chemicals. Amoco and Mobil reported sharply lower profits earlier this week, and Amerada Hess posted a loss.
Michael Mayer, an analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Company in San Francisco, said industry profits should improve in the second half of the year if the American economy recovers as expected. Indeed, the price of leading oil stocks rose today, despite a slight drop in oil prices.
Mr. Mayer said he anticipated modestly higher prices for oil and natural gas, and stronger earnings for gasoline refining and chemicals in the United States. Companies reaping the biggest benefits from the turnaround will not be the global giants that generate most profits abroad.
Exxon's chairman and chief executive, Lawrence G. Rawl, said first-quarter profits were 21 percent higher than in the fourth quarter, with higher natural gas sales in Europe and improved profits in global chemical operations.
Following are details of the companies' results:
 
Exxon
 Net income for the world's largest oil company totaled $1.35 billion, or $1.07 a share, compared with $2.24 billion, or $1.78 a share, in the 1991 quarter. The company's revenues declined by 9 percent, to $27.91 billion from $30.68 billion.
The earnings for the Exxon Corporation, based in Irving, Tex., included $198 million in special items, with $115 million booked from asset sales and foreign tax credits amounting to $83 million.
Exxon's earnings in the first quarter of 1991 were the highest in the company's 110-year history, the result of sharply higher prices for refined products in the Middle East and Europe because of the Persian Gulf war.
But Mr. Rawl said the volume of oil and natural gas sales, as well as that of gasoline and other refined products and chemicals sold in the quarter, was stronger in each case than in the period a year ago.
Analysts had anticipated a 50 percent earnings drop and, perhaps because of the brighter results, investors bid up the price of Exxon's common shares. The stock gained $1.25, to $59.25, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In exploration and production, Exxon's profits fell to $125 million, from $150 million, in the United States, but rose abroad to $785 million, from $721 million, because of the gains from tax credits.
Profits in foreign refining and marketing narrowed to $450 million, from $1.1 billion, and dropped to $23 million in the United States, compared with $256 million in the period a year ago. Profit margins in most regions were "significantly lower" than a year ago, Exxon said.
In chemicals, earnings slumped to $150 million, from $223 million.
 
Texaco
 At Texaco Inc., which is based in White Plains, net income was $200 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with $415 million, or $1.51 a share. The revenues for the nation's third-largest oil company, after Exxon and the Mobil Corporation, fell by 15.9 percent, to $8.56 billion from $10.18 billion.
The company said its average crude price in the United States fell to $14.48 a barrel, from an average of $17.66 in the quarter a year ago.
James W. Kinnear, the president and chief executive, referred to "difficult market conditions" that still prevail and restated Texaco's plan, announced last month, to pare capital spending this year by 10 percent because of weak markets and prices.
In the first quarter, capital spending fell to $641 million, from $791 million in the 1991 period, because of lower drilling activity in the United States and the British North Sea.
Earnings from exploration and production in the United States totaled $87 million, versus $204 million. Outside the United States, Texaco's profits fell to $53 million, from $78 million. Crude output rose in Indonesia and production began in a new field in China.
In refining and marketing, profits rose to $80 million in the United States, from $60 million, as gasoline prices increased by an average of 12 cents a gallon on the West Coast compared with a year ago. A pricing war pinched profits for refiners and marketers in the region last year. Worldwide chemical earnings fell to $9 million from $17 million.
Texaco's share price rose 87.5 cents, to $59.375, on the Big Board.
 
Occidental
 The Occidental Petroleum Corporation reported net income was $98 million, or 32 cents a share, compared with $136 million, or 45 cents a share. Its revenues fell by 22 percent, to $2.15 billion from $2.76 billion, partly because of weak demand but also because Occidental auctioned several operations as part of a restructuring in the last year.
"As the economy improves, we will benefit from improved margins and continuing cost reductions," said Ray R. Irani, the chairman and chief executive.
The company's operating income fell by 36.8 percent, to $252 million from $399 million. Interest expenses fell to $153 million, from $209 million, as a result of lower interest rates and payments to retire debt.
Profits from the Los Angeles-based company's pipeline unit, which transports natural gas, rose to $141 million, from $126 million, but fell in three other operations. Chemical profits plunged to $31 million, from $139 million; oil-and-gas exploration earnings fell to $78 million, from $122 million, and coal profits were $2 million, compared with $12 million.
Occidental's share price rose 50 cents, to $19.625, on the Big Board.
 
Ashland Oil
 The $9 million loss for the large independent refiner, based in Ashland, Ky., compared with a profit of $26.5 million, or 48 cents a share. Ashland's total revenues rose by 4.6 percent, to $2.25 billion from $2.15 billion.
The company's refining unit, the Ashland Petroleum Company, lost $18 million from operations, compared with a $45 million profit. But the earnings at Ashland Oil Inc.'s Valvoline motor-oil unit more than doubled, to $11.6 million. Chemical profits rose slightly, to $24.8 million, and earnings from oil-and-gas exploration declined to $8.3 million, from $11.0 million.
Ashland's share price fell 25 cents, to $32.375, on the Big Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (86%); OXY (NYSE) (58%); HES (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (58%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP; TEXACO INC; OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP; ASHLAND OIL INC EXXON MOBIL CORP (86%); SCHRODER & CO INC (69%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (58%); HESS CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON CORP; TEXACO INC; OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP; ASHLAND OIL INC SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); DESERT STORM (63%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C LAWRENCE G RAWL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



762 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Holding Vast Space and Vast Debt;
New York Lenders Shivering With Olympia & York's Ills

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
In New York City, no industry has wielded as much influence as real-estate, and within that community, no company in recent years has played a more prominent role than Olympia & York.
It is perhaps best known for having developed the World Financial Center office complex and its towering glass Winter Garden, with signature palm trees. Since the 1970's, the Canadian-based company has amassed over 22 million square feet of office space in Manhattan, nearly 10 percent of the total and three and a half times that of the next-largest commercial landlord. 
 At the same time, it has forged strong ties to the public sector through its hiring of highly regarded former city and state officials. John E. Zuccotti, a former first deputy mayor of the city, has been the head of Olympia & York U.S.A. since January 1990. And Meyer S. Frucher, the former president of the Battery Park City Authority and a longtime adviser to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, is an executive vice president of the United States subsidiary.
 
Crisis in March
 Given Olympia & York's prominent position in the city's business and social life, it is hardly surprising that its every move has come under close scrutiny since it conceded in late March that it had run out of cash. Real-estate brokers, the city's tax collectors, bankers, other property owners and companies looking to rent new office space are all closely watching the company -- and any possible response from the Dinkins administration.
When Olympia & York catches a cold, as the saying goes, others in the city stand to catch pneumonia. Banks could get even more skittish about making loans, especially to the real-estate industry. The city's tax base could suffer a loss in revenues, and potential tenants could shy away from Olympia & York properties, causing at least a short-term boost for office rents.
"This has big implications because you're talking about the biggest landlord in the city," said David Shulman, a managing director at Salomon Brothers.
It is too early to say exactly how the financial collapse of the Olympia & York empire will play out or the extent to which it will worsen the city's struggling economy.
The outcome will depend in large part on the position that the banks take toward the Reichmann brothers, who amassed the company's privately held real-estate empire. The brothers are trying to dissuade those who loaned the company money from engaging in a global scramble for secure assets, which would almost certainly result in its generally high-quality New York assets becoming encumbered. If it is successful, it may be able to minimize the turbulence.
 
Future Uncertain
 But even if lenders cooperate fully with the Reichmanns, backing them with new loans instead of demanding properties as collateral or forcing Olympia & York into bankruptcy, many said that life in the city would not be quite the same.
The biggest fear is that Olympia & York's troubles will make banks even less willing to lend. Citicorp and the Chemical Banking Corporation, both of which are based in New York City and are the largest consumer lenders in this market, have the largest exposures of any United States banks to Olympia & York, an estimated $500 million and $250 million respectively.
While Olympia & York executives have insisted that no bank will suffer any losses on loans, some banking analysts consider that scenario unrealistically rosy.
In the meantime, the concern is that troubles at Olympia & York, which had always been regarded as perhaps the banks' strongest real-estate borrower, will discourage banks from lending to others with lesser reputations.
"This will summon up existing fears about making new commitments to the real-estate area," said James McDermott, president of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a securities firm that specializes in bank-stock research.
 
Credit Beginning to Loosen
 That cannot be good news for other property owners, who were already nervous about their bankers' willingness to roll over old loans as they came due. After several years during which many banks had simply stopped making loans to the real-estate industry, a few had finally begun to come out of their shells, partly under pressure from bank regulators.
"The biggest problem the industry has been having is the unavailability of credit," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. "We thought we had begun to see signs of improvement, but we think this will slow that down."
If access to credit continues to be denied to property owners, that could put more pressure on an already fragile real-estate market. In the worst-case scenario, more owners could be forced to default on loans, banks could have no option but to increase the number of buildings they foreclose on and still more properties could end up changing hands at fire sale prices. When these events have occurred in recent months, building values have fallen by about half.
The potential for further downward pressure on real-estate prices has the city's Department of Finance watching the Olympia & York situation closely. The city relies on property taxes for 45 percent of its total tax revenues. Manhattan office buildings play an especially important role in that equation: they account for about 30 percent of the total assessed value of all taxable real estate in the city.
 
City Tax Revenues
 Olympia & York properties, in turn, are an important part of that percentage. They are assessed at $1.3 billion, or 6 percent of the total for Manhattan office buildings. The company paid $142 million in property taxes last year, making it among the largest sources of commercial property-tax in the city. (The company also pays taxes on its corporate income, but those figures are not available to the public.)
Olympia & York is not delinquent on any of its property taxes, but the finance department fears that if real-estate values fall still lower, it would have to lower the values at which it assesses office buildings for tax purposes. The city already reduced the assessed value of commercial property by 12 percent this year. That did not lead to a corresponding decline in revenues, in part because tax rates were raised to make up the difference. But with a tax freeze promised by the Dinkins administration, there are limits to that approach.
"Of course I'm worried," said Carol O'Cleireacain, the city's finance commissioner. "If they went under, it could pull a lot else with it."
Real-estate owners and the city's tax collectors are not the only ones who could be harmed by Olympia & York's financial troubles. Companies seeking to rent office space may find, in a curious twist, that Olympia & York's problems make other landlords less willing to negotiate lower rents. That is because some prospective tenants are believed to have become wary about moving into Olympia & York properties, removing competition for other landlords who are trying to lease their vacant space.
 
Concerns Over Ownership
 Martin Turchin, vice chairman of E. S. Gordon, one of the city's leading brokerage firms, says he has already heard some clients express concern about whether Olympia & York has the resources to finance renovation work for new tenants or maintain its buildings. Also, tenants are generally reluctant to lease space in buildings where the ownership could conceivably change, especially in a bankruptcy situation.
"We represent several tenants who were seriously considering Olympia & York properties and say they won't now," said Mr. Turchin. As a result, the number of office-space alternatives those tenants are considering has dropped by half. "A significant amount of space is effectively off the market until the ownership question gets resolved and it becomes clear whether financing sources are available," said Mr. Turchin.
Of course, it is in the banks' interest to provide whatever assurances are necessary so that Olympia & York properties retain their attractiveness in the market. But Mr. Turchin notes that the banks are not the only parties involved: the company has several billion dollars of debt held by other public and private investors who may not be inclined to be so cooperative and whose presence will certainly make the negotiation process more unwieldy.
Given the potential damage that Olympia & York's financial problems could cause for the city, the Dinkins administration could decide to take some steps to help.
One issue that was already under consideration is whether tax incentives should be given to property owners in lower Manhattan to encourage them to convert older office buildings into residential or other uses. The city's planning department has identified about 6 million square feet of office space that could qualify.
 
Input to City Planning Office
 Robert E. Flahive, the director of the city's Manhattan planning office, said that none of Olympia & York's buildings fell into that category. But the company would clearly benefit if some of the excess office space in lower Manhattan were removed from the market. Over three-quarters of Olympia & York's properties are in lower Manhattan, a much higher proportion than other commercial landlords' properties.
Interestingly, the city's planning department is receiving input into its study of lower Manhattan from a private-sector group that has received significant financial backing from Olympia & York and is led by Mr. Zuccotti.
Mr. Flahive said that Olympia & York's recent problems would not have any effect on the pace or implementation of the planning study, but some are not convinced. Asked what implications Olympia & York's financial troubles had for the city, Mr. Shulman of Salomon Brothers cited, among other things, that "the city may have to offer tax concessions to provide help for lower Manhattan buildings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The building at 60 Broad Street is part of Olympia & York's huge holdings in Manhattan. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Table/Map: "Real Estate: Olympia & York's Manhattan Portfolio"

 	 	 	Address	Stories	Vacancy Rate	 1. 60 Broad Street 	39	62.0%	 2. 125 Broad Street 	40	27.0 	 3. 2 Broadway 	32	39.6 	 4. 1 Liberty Plaza 	54	27.0*	 5. 55 Water Street 	53	10.3 	 6. 59 Maiden Lane 	44	0.0 	 7. 1 World Financial Center	40	0.0 	 8. 2 World Financial Center	44	2.6 	 9. 4 World Financial Center	34	0.0 	10. 425 Lexington Ave. 	31	0.7 	11. 237 Park Avenue 	21	0.08 	12. 245 Park Avenue 	44	0.5 	13. 320 Park Avenue	 	 	 (redevelopment planned)	34	97.93 	1290 Avenue of the Americas 	43	3.32 	
 
*Will drop to 18% once newly committed tenants come in.
(Sources: Olympia & York, Directory of Manhattan Office Buildings) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD FINANCIAL CENTER BANK NA (58%); FINANCIAL CENTER CREDIT UNION (58%); FINANCIAL CENTER CORP (58%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; BANKRUPTCIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; TAXATION ; RENTING AND LEASING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); 

PERSON: REICHMANN, ALBERT; REICHMANN FAMILY; REICHMANN FAMILY ; BARTLETT, SARAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



763 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Union Coalition Supports Plan for Averting Layoffs

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
A coalition of unions representing Connecticut state employees approved a plan yesterday that would avert 3,200 layoffs by permitting the state to postpone $150 million in pension-fund contributions due this year.
In addition, the state will retrain and rehire many of the 336 workers who received layoff notices earlier this month, said Robert J. Krzys, the chief negotiator for the coalition, which includes teachers, office workers, health-care workers and state troopers. About $3 million will be set aside for training this year, with $2 million set for fiscal 1993. 
 The agreement, which is expected to be approved within a month by each of the 12 unions in the coalition, will prevent the layoffs planned as part of the $8.1 billion budget that Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. unveiled in February. But the no-layoff promise only extends to the middle of next year.
"We would have been pleased to have a guarantee of no layoffs for four years," said Merrilee Milstein, vice president of the 9,000-member New England Health Care Employees Union, District 1199, which is based in Hartford.
The state's chief negotiator, Saranne P. Murray, said the Weicker administration welcomed the agreement. "We are particularly pleased that some of the new mechanisms for training and placing employees will mitigate the impact of layoffs," she said.
It is not the first time Connecticut's 45,000 state employees have had to choose between the benefits that go with their jobs and the jobs themselves.
In November, members of the state police union voted to delay a raise and other benefits that allowed about 111 laid-off troopers to be rehired. And other unions were locked in battle with the Governor for months last year over concessions he sought as part of his 1991 budget, which also imposed a personal income tax on residents. About 15,000 state workers ended up deferring a raise that some of them had already begun receiving.
The latest agreement, which was reached early Wednesday, is also subject to approval by the General Assembly.
 
Provision Rejected
 Last month, legislators rejected a provision of the Governor's budget that called for removing health-care and pension benefits from collective bargaining with the unions, whose contracts expire in 1994. The Governor had predicted $111 million in savings in the coming fiscal year, which begins on July 1, as a result of that change and reducing benefits in other ways, like freezing pensions and requiring workers to pay 20 percent of their health-care premiums, Mr. Krzys said.
After the legislature's Appropriations Committee scuttled Mr. Weicker's plan, the unions were told by legislators to make up the deficit, Mr. Krzys said.
The resulting plan lets the state delay some of the payments it makes toward the pension fund's projected future costs, known as unfunded liabilities, for workers who are not yet retired, Mr. Krzys said. The state will now pay $92 million, instead of $242 million, in the next fiscal year.
 
'A Re-amortization'
 "It's a re-amortization of the existing unfunded liability," Mr. Krzys said.
The retraining provision is expected to help most of the people who lost their state jobs this year, Mr. Krzys said. And those who cannot be retrained for jobs in state agencies that are hiring, like the Department of Correction and the Division of Children and Youth Services, will be guaranteed health insurance for the first six months that they are unemployed, he added.
"It's hard to say that everybody was fully satisfied with this, but there is a problem with pension funds," he said. "When you get into these budget pressures, the question becomes, can you find a way out while we're waiting for the economy to rebound."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSION FUNDS; PENSIONS; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L ROBERT J KRZYS (92%); LOWELL P WEICKER JR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



764 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy? He Can Kiss It Goodbye

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WOODBRIDGE, N.J., April 22

 BODY:
Reclining on a brown velour couch, David N. Demarest, one of New Jersey's newest wealthy citizens, fielded calls -- 6 in 10 minutes -- from accountant and broker types offering to help handle his first Pick-6 Lotto check. But after going bankrupt last year, the 51-year-old telephone installer and repairman said he had simple plans for the fat check sitting in his bank account.
"Some for my brothers and sisters," he said. "Some for my mother, of course, and my son and daughter. And my wife -- that is, ex-wife." 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Demarest and Derrick Webb, an unemployed aircraft mechanic from Newark, became the first of four winners in Monday night's state record-breaking $44.3 million jackpot to claim their initial prize of $440,523 -- the first of 20 annual checks.
They share the prize with Rosa and Adolfo Torres of Hillside, who came forward on Wednesday and had their winnings divided into seven checks, one for them and one for each of their six children. A fourth winning ticket was sold in Passaic County, where a group of office-workers in Wayne have said they hold the ticket and were waiting for the lottery commission to verify it.
 
Fancy Gadgets? Just Basics
 Whatever other lottery winners do, Mr. Demarest said, "I want to keep my life style."
Mr. Demarest said he had no desire to buy a fancy car, new clothes or new furniture. He may buy a Jeep Cherokee and give his 1987 Chevrolet Caprice wagon to his 22-year-old son, with whom he lives in a crowded one-bedroom condominium overlooking the New Jersey Turnpike. Then again, he may buy "something even more basic."
"When I bought my current car, I asked for manual locks, windows you crank up and down and a basic dashboard," he said. "I'm not a fan of fancy gadgets." He continued: "What winning means is that deep down, I know I have financial security. That's a good feeling."
In September, he may take early retirement from New Jersey Bell, where he has worked for almost 25 years. And then he might move to Colorado Springs, where his 19-year-old daughter and ex-wife live.
 
O Debt, Where Is Thy Sting?
 "We get along well," he said of his former wife.
While friends and co-workers keep calling him to tell him how lucky he is, the Metuchen native, who was divorced eight years ago, said his life had been trying in recent years. Credit-card debt and an ill-advised second mortgage on his home forced him into Chapter 13 bankruptcy, he said. He has been working overtime -- about 700 hours in the last year -- to help offset the $400 docked from his weekly paycheck to fulfill his bankruptcy obligation.
Like millions of others, Mr. Demerast said he had long pitched his hopes of financial security on winning the lottery. He has been playing $5 twice a week for several years and spent $50 for Monday's drawing.
"And I'm gonna keep on playing," he said. "People have been known to win twice."
His immediate plans involve going back to work for one day before a hernia operation on Friday, six weeks of recovery time and two weeks of vacation.
"People tell me I should get my phone number changed or move to avoid all the people who'll be calling me asking me for money," he said. "A lot of people want to give me advice. But I think I'll stay as I am."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "A lot of people want to give me advice," said David N. Demarest, one of New Jersey's newest wealthy citizens. "But I think I'll stay as I am." (Najlah Feanny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LOTTERIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (72%); OVERTIME (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%); SECOND MORTGAGES (60%); 

PERSON: DEMAREST, DAVID N DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



765 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Net Up 11%

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said yesterday that its first-quarter earnings rose 11 percent, fueled by strong growth overseas.
McDonald's earnings rose to $187.4 million, or 51 cents a share, from $168.5 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. Quarterly revenue grew 4 percent, to $1.62 billion from $1.55 billion. Systemwide sales, which include franchises as well as company-owned stores, were up 9 percent, to $4.9 billion from $4.5 billion. 
 McDonald's stock rose $1.375 a share yesterday to close at $42.375 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
McDonald's management characterized the quarter's results as "excellent." The company said business in the United States benefited from its emphasis on lower-priced food, coupled with efforts to cut costs.
United States sales grew 5 percent and operating income increased by 7 percent. Revenue fell 1 percent as a result of the sale of some company-operated restaurants to franchisees; the company said such sales increased profits for the company, but lowered revenues.
McDonald's, which has been hurt by the recession and heavy competition in the United States, said that promotions like its N.B.A. basketball trading-card program helped build the company's domestic business in the quarter. "This marks a continuation of a turn for them in the United States," said Becky Barfield, an analyst with First Boston.
Ms. Barfield said McDonald's results were better than she expected, both domestically and abroad.
Hugh Zurkuhlen, an analyst with Weiss, Peck & Greer, commenting on the improvement in McDonald's operating income, said, "It hasn't been that good in five years."
Outside the United States, sales rose 14 percent, even though the company was hurt by weaker foreign currencies. Revenue increased by 10 percent. Operating income grew 19 percent. The company said profits would have grown by 23 percent if exchange rates had remained at 1991 levels.
McDonald's opened its first restaurant in Beijing yesterday. The two-story restaurant seats 700 people and is the largest McDonald's in the world. Jack Greenberg, the company's chief financial officer, said the restaurant served 40,000 customers yesterday.
Mr. Greenberg, the company's chief financial officer, said two important foreign markets, Britain and Canada, continued to lag. But he said that sales in Canada should get a lift next quarter from the national introduction of pizza there recently. "I'm hopeful about that," he said.
Fast-food sales were hurt by the recession, despite the improvement at the company, Mr. Greenberg said. "We're a little unsure of whether the economy is improving or not," he said. "It may be company specific."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%); ROBP (PAR) (54%); ROB (SWX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); ROBECO GROEP NV (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FRANCHISING (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); BASKETBALL (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



766 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Favorable Economic Data Fail to Give Dollar a Lift

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed against major currencies yesterday despite better-than-expected news about the United States economy.
Gold prices retreated after rising overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery fell 60 cents, to $338.70 an ounce. Later, the Republic National Bank quoted a bid of $338.10, off 30 cents. 
 Strong figures on the German money supply suggested that German interest rates would remain firm, dampening demand for the dollar, said Mike Faust, senior currency strategist at MMS International. The Bundesbank said money supply grew by 9.7 percent in March, above the target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent.
 
Remarks Hurt Yen
 In New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6605 German marks, down from 1.6620 late on Wednesday. In Europe, the dollar fell to 1.6615 marks, from 1.6630 late on Wednesday.
The yen was hurt yesterday, dealers said, by the comments of David C. Mulford, Treasury Under Secretary, who said Japan had room to ease interest rates.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to 134.15 Japanese yen, from 134.25 yen on Wednesday. In London, it later rose to 134.45 yen. The dollar closed in New York at 134.65 yen, up from 134.18 late on Wednesday.
The economic data released yesterday, however, did not move the market, Mr. Faust said. Currency analysts say the market will need a substantial change in the economic picture for exchange rates to react significantly.
"Foreign exchange traders aren't using slightly better-than-expected numbers to move the market," Mr. Faust said.
The Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time unemployment insurance claims fell to 404,000 in the week ended April 11, an unexpected drop from 416,000 a week earlier and the lowest level since early October. And the Commerce Department said factory orders for durable goods rose 1.6 percent in March, a slightly bigger gain than anticipated.
In New York, the British pound rose to $1.7660, from $1.7625 late on Wednesday. In London, sterling rose to $1.7650, from $1.7630 on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: MIKE FAUST (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



767 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Crucial Issue Politicians Ignore

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
EVERYBODY, Republican and Democrat, wishes the Federal budget deficit would just go away. But it gets worse. The latest monthly Treasury statement shows that during the first six months of fiscal 1992, which began Oct. 1, the deficit widened to $196.88 billion, from $152.19 billion in the first half of fiscal 1991.
For all fiscal 1991, the deficit was $268.7 billion; this year the Administration projects it to climb to about $400 billion. That estimate reflects an anticipated on-budget deficit of $449.1 billion, offset by an off-budget surplus of $49.4 billion. 
 Much as the savings and loan disaster was minimized and dismissed in the 1988 election campaign, the swelling national debt is being largely ignored in the 1992 campaign.
But the facts are these: At the end of 1981, the gross Federal debt totaled slightly less than $1 trillion after 205 years of United States history. By the end of fiscal 1992, the Federal debt will have quadrupled to $4.08 trillion, according to Administration estimates. Just the interest on the public debt will reach $293 billion this year. And the gross Federal debt is projected to hit $4.5 trillion by the end of fiscal 1993.
Does it matter? Some economists, both on the left and the right, insist it matters little. Many monetarists say only money matters, and, if the debt is not monetized, there's nothing to worry about. Anti-government crusaders say big deficits may even be a good thing by forcing politicians to cut spending.
Some liberals insist conventional definitions of the deficit are wrong -- it's smaller than you think. Most tempting of all to politicians is the argument that if they just stimulate growth by cutting taxes, raising expenditures or both, the deficit will vanish. This was the original case for the Reagan tax cuts.
But a wide band of economists, including conservatives and liberals, still see the deficit as a root cause of the nation's economic weakness. A leader of this school is Prof. Benjamin Friedman of Harvard, author of "Day of Reckoning," a prophecy that appears to have come true in this long spell of recession, sluggish growth and personal income stagnation. In an unpublished paper, "Learning from the Reagan Deficits," he lays out the data to show the linkages between the deficits and the nation's eroding economic growth.
The Reagan cuts in marginal tax rates did not increase but reduced tax revenues, contrary to supply-side theorists. And lower tax revenues did not restrain government spending enough to prevent the soaring of the deficits to unprecedented heights, contrary to the anti-government ideologues.
The widening public deficits did not result in greater private saving, as some economists had predicted. Contrary to the so-called Ricardian equivalence theorem that public dissaving through the budget deficit would be offset by greater individual saving and higher business profits, private saving moved in the opposite direction, compounding the effect of bigger public deficits. Net national saving, which averaged 7.3 percent of gross national product from 1951 to 1980, shrank to 2.6 percent from 1981 to 1990.
In consequence, real interest rates -- nominal rates adjusted for expected inflation -- rose. As measured by the commercial paper rate minus the growth of the G.N.P. price deflator, the real rate of interest rose from an average of eight-tenths of 1 percent from 1951 to 1980 to 4.7 percent from 1981 to 1990.
The bigger budget deficits, drop in national savings and rise in real interest rates caused a sharp decline in investment. Net private domestic investment, which averaged 7 percent from 1951 to 1980, fell to 4.4 percent in 1981-90. The fall would have been even greater had it not been for the net inflow of foreign capital. But even with America's swing from creditor to debtor nation, the fall in its capital formation caused a decline in productivity growth and stagnation of real wages and living standards, and the United States lost competitiveness against foreign producers, in markets both at home and abroad.
On the issue of what is the correct definition of the budget deficit, Professor Friedman says it is not just the level but the "trajectory" of budget deficits that affect the economy's performance. Whatever the definition used, it must be applied to both the base and the terminal dates, and United States deficits have seriously worsened in the last dozen years.
The deficit remains the hidden issue of the 1992 campaign because of the political dangers to candidates of proposing solutions, whether by raising taxes or cutting entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare. If the deficit issue goes unaddressed, the United States will continue to be frustrated in attacking domestic problems and meeting its international commitments.
Weak in wallet, the United States cannot play its role as world leader or even effective partner. And, in an interdependent world, the United States cannot retreat to its home base without aggravating its economic problems.
The day of reckoning has arrived, but not yet in American politics.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PUBLIC DEBT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); TAX LAW (63%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD; FRIEDMAN, BENJAMIN (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



768 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Longtime Executive at Mead Is Selected for the Top Posts

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The Mead Corporation, the large paper, wood products and electronic-publishing company, named Steven C. Mason, a 35-year employee and Mead's vice chairman, to be chairman and chief executive yesterday. Mr. Mason will replace Burnell R. Roberts, who has been chairman since 1982 and who plans to retire on May 6, when he becomes 65.
Mr. Mason, 56, came to Mead in 1957 in the company's white-paper division and worked in a number of engineering and manufacturing positions. For many years, he was general manager of Schoeller Technical Papers, which was a Mead subsidiary. 
 He was named executive vice president of Mead's paperboard group in 1975 and its president in 1978. He was named senior vice president of operations for the entire company in 1981 and served as president and chief operating officer from 1982 until last year.
Like other paper companies, Mead, based in Dayton, Ohio, was hard hit by the recession. The downturn particularly affected the commodity side of the business. The price of pulp dropped by more than 40 percent the last two years.
But Mr. Mason said that the company was seeing signs of a rebound and added that Mead planned to place a greater emphasis on its coated-board business, the cardboard products used in packaging beverages.
"We just finished a $580 million expansion of a facility that will double our production of coated board," Mr. Mason said in a telephone interview. "We think that will be an important area of growth for the company."
Mr. Mason said the company would see stronger sales and earnings in lumber and various paper products. "We look for a pickup, and, in fact, we're already starting to see it," he said. "Our electronic publishing business is off to a good start. We see a bounce in coated board, and lumber prices are going up again."
Mr. Mason graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in mechanical engineering in 1957, and he completed the management development program at the Harvard Business School in 1973.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MWV (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (95%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (95%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MEAD CORP MEADWESTVACO CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEAD CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); OHIO, USA (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); PAPER MFG (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (75%); PAPERBOARD (75%); PAPERBOARD MILLS (75%); PULP INDUSTRY (73%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (51%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; MASON, STEVEN C; ROBERTS, BURNELL R MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



769 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY EARNINGS;
A Rebound At Tandem

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CUPERTINO, Calif., April 23

 BODY:
Tandem Computers Inc. said today that it had returned to profitability in the second quarter after posting a big first-quarter loss primarily because of a restructuring.
The company, which makes "fault tolerant" mainframe computers with redundant parts to prevent crashes, earned $8.8 million, or 8 cents a share, for the three months that ended on March 31. That was 51 percent lower than net income of $17.9 million, or 17 cents a share, for the 1991 period. Tandem's revenues rose 3 percent, to $502.9 million from $489.3 million. 
 Earnings were down from the 1991 quarter because the company's costs and expenses rose more than the modest gain in revenues, said George Elling, an analyst with Merrill Lynch Research in New York.
Mr. Elling, who had expected earnings of up to 5 cents a share, said he was "cautiously optimistic" about Tandem's report.
Tandem, like other makers of large computers, was hurt by the recession. In the first quarter of 1992, Tandem lost $94.6 million after taking a $98 million charge for layoffs and other restructurings to help cut costs in an increasingly competitive market.
"We are pleased that our efforts to restructure Tandem did not disrupt our business and are beginning to show results," said James G. Treybig, the president and chief executive.
He said domestic business was up, suggesting that the United States recession may be dwindling, but business was mixed in Europe and down in Asia, usually a strong area for the company, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (65%); ASIA (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: TANDEM COMPUTERS INC TANDEM COMPUTERS INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: TANDEM COMPUTERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (65%); ASIA (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



770 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Mets Get Two Signs Of Better Days Ahead

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH

 BODY:
For the New York Mets, the 13-inning victory was sweet. The fact that a fielding play and a pitching performance produced a feeling that two of their players were coming of age in new roles, made a long afternoon of baseball all the more special yesterday.
The fielder in question was Dave Magadan, a first baseman turned third baseman who tries to win a bigger portion of the job as well as win over skeptics every time he steps onto the field. Yesterday, he took huge leaps toward the latter goal in the Mets' 1-0 victory over St. Louis. Turning in an exemplary performance, Magadan especially took charge in the 11th, making two key plays as the Mets wriggled out of a no-outs, bases-loaded jam. 
 The pitcher who benefited from the defense was Jeff Innis, a reliever forcing his way into consideration as a setup man with a growing series of gutty performances.
Innis started off shakily when Ozzie Smith, a pinch-hitter, singled off Innis's glove. Another hit would follow, then a walk in which Ball 4 was nearly a wild pitch. Just as the fans started to turn on Innis, the pitcher started turning on the Cardinals, first getting Todd Zeile on a chopper to the alert Magadan, who charged and threw Smith out at the plate.
Then came Pedro Guerrero, a free swinger who more than matched his reputation on this day. Innis, staying far away from the strike zone, threw pitches high and outside to the Cardinals' first baseman. Guerrero, swinging wildly, missed once, fouled off a ball, then missed again. "You're thinking, just get one guy, just get one guy," Innis said. "Then you think, if he's going to wave at those pitches, you're going to have a chance."
"No excuse," Guerrero said. "I'm just terrible" -- or words to that effect.
The inning, though, was far from over, Innis knew all too well. "That's when you have to bear down," he said. "You can't relax because this kid, Jordan, is a pretty good player." Jordan, a rookie in this game, a starting defensive back in the National Football League, looks like the real thing at many turns. But, on this occasion, he could do no more than ground sharply to third. Again it was up to Magadan and again, sure-handed and with a true throw, he got his man, gunning out Jordan at first.
 
'It Was a Roller Coaster'
 Magadan, modest in his assessment, professed to be grateful just to have been in the game at that point, having avoided being lifted for defensive purposes. "I felt they had confidence in me," he said. As for the two plays, he said: "Those are the kind that I need to make. They help change everybody's feelings about the situation."
Innis knows the feeling. For he turned doubters into believers in the course of one inning. "It was a roller coaster, everybody booing, then cheering," he said. "Any time you get out of something like that, it's new life. You're expected to give up at least one run, maybe two. It would have taken the wind out of our sails."
But Innis helped prevent a major deflation. And though the official victory would go to a teammate two innings later, it was Innis who could count himself the biggest winner. For the pitcher who wandered through last season in virtual obscurity, with no victories, no saves, continued to shout his presence. Now 2-1 with a 3.12 earned run average, his April is turning out to be as impressive and improbable as his holding action was in the 11th inning yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; ST LOUIS CARDINALS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (51%); NEW YORK METS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; ST LOUIS CARDINALS NEW YORK METS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: MAGADAN, DAVE; SMITH, CLAIRE MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



771 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Trashing the Saudis

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Where there's a juicy news leak, there's usually fire. But sometimes there isn't.
The juicy leak in question was a Los Angeles Times article. It said the Saudis had been trafficking in illegal transfers of U.S. arms to Iraq and Syria. 
 The principal purpose of the leak was to dampen the Bush Administration's apparent fire to sell Saudi Arabia 72 potent F-15 fighter-bombers.
But the leakers did not know a central fact: President Bush had already decided against asking Congress to approve the F-15 sale this year -- though the $5 billion order would preserve defense jobs in an ailing economy and though he believes the Saudis should have the planes.
Why would Mr. Bush refrain from doing what he believes is right and good politics? The answer is also politics and good policy, as you will see when you hear out this story.
About the L.A. Times report, it is enough to say that the leakers falsely accused the Bush/Reagan Administrations of failing to notify Congress of the illegal Saudi transfers, and that they wildly exaggerated the Saudi sins.
The leakers wanted to hurt Mr. Bush. But their main aim was to show that the Saudis could not be trusted with advanced U.S. arms, that such arms would find their way to outlaw states. The truth is that Riyadh's record is no worse, and maybe even better, than most U.S. arms buyers.
The leakers' goal was to stop the F-15 sale. And they had good reason to think the sale would go forward this year. The Saudi Air Force, inspired by its U.S. counterpart, was pressing for a decision. McDonnell Douglas, the manufacturer of the F-15, was lobbying hard for the order to keep open its production line. George Bush was worried about unemployment, and would especially not want to see jobs lost among supporters in the defense industry.
But there were countervailing considerations neglected by the leakers. All worked decisively against the sale.
Mr. Bush could not ask Congress to bless the sale before mid-May. He has scheduled a little-noticed Mideast arms control conference for that time in Washington. To go ahead with a $5 billion sale of advanced fighter-bombers in the face of such an unprecedented meeting would make him an international joke.
Nor could Mr. Bush beard Congress before late June. That is when Israeli elections will be held, and Prime Minister Shamir would use the sale to show a Bush tilt toward the Arabs. Israeli voters would probably share Mr. Shamir's resentment and re-elect him and his hard-liners -- against all Mr. Bush's hopes.
Nor does it make sense for Mr. Bush to test this issue before November. Whatever the polls show, he is running scared and does not want to further irritate American supporters of Israel.
Mr. Bush had something else up his sleeve, which the leakers seemed not to know. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia had sent word that he was in no hurry about the sale. He did not want to put his friend George Bush in an awkward political situation. Unsaid, the King also has a cash problem.
The Saudis can afford to wait. They understand that Congress would not approve the sale in an election year anyway. More importantly, they appear to have Mr. Bush's private assurance that he will press for approval if re-elected.
But whatever promises have been made and whoever the next President is, the sale will be a tough issue. True, the Saudis have been helpful in the current peace process with Israel. And they do need and merit U.S. military support for their perilous position as neighbors of Iraq and Iran. Also, even if the U.S. refuses to sell high-performance aircraft, others have before and will again.
On the other hand, the version of the F-15 sought by the Saudis would give them a new and powerful attack capability against Israel. And the sale would surely undercut efforts at Mideast arms control -- which deserve a full run before any big new arms sales.
Meantime, the leakers of the L.A. Times story got their just desserts. They planted a phony tale and were found out. Had they waited for the right moment to unload their trash, they could have muddied the debate.
In their haste, they lost. And Washington gained a better chance to grapple fairly with this critical security issue next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (91%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA; MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; IRAQ ; ISRAEL SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (91%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; F-15 AIRPLANE ; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); LOBBYING (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



772 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Premature Favors From the Mayor

 BODY:
Graced with a modest budget surplus, Mayor David Dinkins now promises to keep New York City libraries open longer and build new health clinics. It's hard to quarrel with his impulse to provide these and other worthy programs. He has been plagued from the beginning with nothing but bad economic news. And the city could use a lift.
Even so, the Mayor's generosity sends the wrong signal. The city is still in recession and must have the cooperation of its unions and the Legislature to balance next year's budget. By hinting now that good days are here, Mr. Dinkins undermines his own efforts to enlist the help he needs. 
 The city's surplus of $455 million, which will eliminate some city borrowing next year, is only a tiny fraction of the city's $29 billion budget. It represents some prudent cost-cutting and planning, pessimistic forecasts, higher state aid and a bit of good luck. But it's hardly proof that New York's recession is over.
The benefits Mr. Dinkins announced are not all that expensive -- about $50 million. But by announcing them before he presents his entire budget for the next fiscal year on Monday, he distorts their importance and encourages the unions and legislators to make their own demands. The unions want a piece of the surplus and legislators want the city to shrink its proposed tax package and provide more financing for mass transit and higher education.
New York needs more concessions from its unions, not fewer. And without the $115 million in taxes it wants Albany to approve, the city will have to cut more to balance its budget. But how can union leaders ask sacrifices from workers who read about budget surpluses? And how can legislative leaders ask lawmakers to vote for higher taxes when the city seems to be doing well?
The first rule of politics is not to embarrass potential allies. The second is to get priorities straight -- in this case getting the Legislature and the unions on board first, and indulging in good-news politics second.
Unions and legislators know the city is still in difficult straits. But by pursuing short-term benefits, Mr. Dinkins opens his credibility to question and hurts his efforts to get help for next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONTRACTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); FORECASTS; EDITORIALS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



773 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Ross Perot, One-Way Wizard

 BODY:
Millions of Americans fed up with drift, deficits and overdrafts think they've found a savior in Ross Perot, the $2.5 billion man who'll run for President if enough people ask him. Mr. Perot's sudden notoriety springs partly from public disaffection with traditional politics. But it also owes much to the fact that not much is known about Ross Perot. Like the Wizard of Oz, he has been an amplified one-way voice, untested and unchallenged.
True, it's hard to turn on the TV and not find Mr. Perot. But as Bill Clinton told reporters the other day, "You all haven't had the chance to put him through the meat grinder." The tough questions are sure to come when Mr. Perot formally announces, transforming the idea of Ross Perot into a living candidacy. 
 Little is known, for example, about his views on foreign affairs. Mr. Perot opposed the Persian Gulf war -- Kuwait's regime, he argued, wasn't worth the risk -- and he favors aid to the new Soviet republics. He also argues that America will be weak abroad if it's weak at home: "You can't be a superpower unless you're an economic superpower." But it's not clear how that translates into policy. More free trade? Patrick Buchanan-style protectionism? Japanese-style industrial policy?
He's clear on one point: The nation risks permanent decline unless it balances its books. He offers two challenging prescriptions: a Paul Tsongas-like proposal to save money by making cuts in benefits to wealthy seniors and in the defense budget. His other ideas are warmed-over or wishful. He'd save $100 billion with more efficient tax collection (Michael Dukakis tried that one). He'd trim $180 billion in waste and abuse (Ronald Reagan's annual promise). Poof, end of deficit.
He's outspokenly pro-choice but maddeningly vague on other issues like taxes and drugs. Cleaning up the drug traffic, he says, will be a "dirty deal. It won't be pretty." Meaning what?
How Mr. Perot would govern is also a mystery. Newsweek called the Perot campaign "talk show democracy," and Mr. Perot himself has said he'll use "electronic town halls" to help him shape policy in the White House. He and various experts will lay out options, and voters will punch in their choices. That would reduce the influence of messy intermediaries -- Congress, for example -- which, he believes, clog and corrupt the system.
"Once you decide what needs to be done," Mr. Perot explains, "you go to the American people and say, 'It's up to you, folks.' "
There's something disarmingly attractive about this. It suggests efficiency. It suggests citizen democracy on a massive scale. But it is not always easy to tell from Mr. Perot's words exactly who's going to be leading and who's going to be led.
Furthermore, the partnership he envisions assumes a President more interested in listening than manipulating. Is Mr. Perot a listener? As an executive and concerned citizen, he was often bold and creative. He was also, by many accounts, autocratic and thin-skinned.
Who Ross Perot is matters as much as what he believes. The country is largely ignorant on both counts. It's one thing for him to flourish simple answers. It will be another when he has to start answering Americans' hard questions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (70%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (70%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); DESERT STORM (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (63%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



774 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: The Part-Time Education President

 BODY:
President Bush says he'll make education his top domestic priority in his second term. Second term? He pledged that en route to election in 1988. Yet from the start his ideas have lacked conviction and scope. His latest proposal focuses on only one slice of the problem and seems derivative, too.
As part of what appears to be a "theme of the week" re-election campaign, Mr. Bush said he would give all Americans a $25,000 line of credit for education through the Student Loan Marketing Association. The credit would be available to anyone, from the student taking full-time courses to the retired worker taking a single class. The interest rate and repayment schedule would be determined on the basis of income. 
 Increasing access to education is a fine idea. But Mr. Bush's embrace comes long after Bill Clinton offered a similar plan -- a government trust fund that would lend money to anyone wishing to attend college. Under Mr. Clinton's proposal, loans would also be repaid on a sliding scale based on income, or through a term of national service.
Mr. Bush's version won't have any impact on the Congressional debate over reauthorization of student financial aid programs. Both the House and Senate have passed bills; a conference to reconcile differences is set to begin soon.
The proposal, hurriedly served up during a primary campaign trip through Pennsylvania, reinforces the suspicion that Mr. Bush's interest in education remains more rhetorical than real. He has never seriously addressed issues of equity like overcrowded classes, deteriorating buildings and underpaid teachers. Instead he has concentrated on giving parents more flexibility to choose schools.
It's easy merely to pronounce yourself the education President the first time around -- and it gets easier every time you do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SLM CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ELECTION ISSUES; EDITORIALS; CREDIT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



775 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: At the Bar

BYLINE: By David Margolick

 BODY:
They have names like Mabel, Juliana, Beatrix, Isabel, Cecily and Margaret. They lived, became pregnant, and died six or seven centuries ago, and they presumably lie forgotten in English country churchyards. But they all made history, and as the Supreme Court weighs the future of abortion rights, that history is being reconsidered.
If Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey is any indication, the High Court is not just liked but well liked. A total of 25 "friends of the court" filed briefs in the case, which was argued Wednesday. Two came from clashing sets of legal historians, each of whom found support for their positions by poring over parchment. 
 The first was written by Clyde Spillenger of the University of Wisconsin Law School on behalf of 250 American historians, with the help of Jane E. Larson of Northwestern University Law School and Sylvia A. Law of New York University Law School. It argued that Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision declaring abortion a "fundamental" constitutional right, is deeply rooted in the country's history and tradition.
Professor Spillenger contends that abortion was known and tolerated from America's earliest days, and was eventually outlawed not out of moral qualms or concerns for the fetus, but by a consortium of turf-conscious doctors, husbands who viewed their wives as vassals and vessels and immigrant haters fearful of "race suicide."
When the brief first appeared, the weekly newspaper Legal Times speculated that the heavy emphasis on precedents from early New England was a not-so-subtle pitch to Justice David H. Souter, one of the few remaining swing votes on the issue and a man who, until his recent move to Washington, spent his entire life within an hour's radius of Boston. This notion was denied by Roger Evans, Planned Parenthood's director of litigation.
A contrary view is put forth by Joseph Dellapenna, a professor of law at Villanova University, on behalf of the American Academy of Medical Ethics. Professor Dellapenna reaches back even further, at least to the 13th century -- to demonstrate, as he put it, "that abortion and other killings of unwanted children were condemned by all respected legal authorities in England from the start of the common law."
He, too, cites cases, including those of the women mentioned above. He also offers a macabre tour of early abortion technology. Old abortion-inducing drugs included castor oil, ergot of rye, hellebore, tansy tea and thyme. There were more lethal agents -- aloes, arsenic, rat poison, snake venom -- as well as a host of ineffective "abortifacients" like goat dung, raw eggs and hops.
Throughout the 19th century, Professor Spillenger writes, American courts uniformly ruled that women seeking an abortion committed no offense, at least as long as the fetus was not yet "quick." Even in the age and milieu of Hester Prynne -- that is, the tightly knit, religiously homogenous communities of early New England -- cookbooks contained recipes for common abortifacients. Abortions were common, and increasing, when the Constitution was drafted, a time when one in three New England brides was pregnant.
But as the 19th century progressed, he continued, a variety of forces combined to curb abortion. One was concern for the health of mothers, understandable in light of the prevailing barbaric practices. Another was that abortions were seen as threatening to male authority. A third was the medical profession's wish to protect its economic interests against encroachments by unlicensed practitioners.
A fourth was nativism: the fear that white, prosperous Protestants were not having enough children to maintain long-term hegemony over more prolific Roman Catholic immigrants. Largely absent from the debate, he maintains, were moral qualms about the practice or an insistence on the personhood of the fetus.
By contrast, Professor Dellapenna claims that criminal indictments for abortion are recorded as far back as the year 1200. While many of these prosecutions were eventually dismissed on other grounds, there were clear indications that punishments were meted out.
These attitudes, Professor Dellapenna said, carried over into the New World. In Maryland alone, he writes, there were three abortion prosecutions before 1660. In 1683, a Rhode Island woman received 15 lashes for fornication and attempted abortion. As for charges that 19th-century anti-abortion statutes were largely the handiwork of psychologically or economically threatened men, he notes that many prominent feminists had moral qualms about abortion.
One of them, he noted, was Margaret Sanger -- one of the founders of Planned Parenthood.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
The "At the Bar" column on the Law page on Friday referred impreciselyto the authors of a brief submitted by 250 historians as "friend of the court" in Planned Parenthood of Southern Pennsylvania v. Casey, the abortion rights case now before the United States Supreme Court. It was written jointly by Clyde Spillenger of the University of Wisconsin Law School, Jane E. Larson of Northwestern University Law School and Sylvia A. Law of New York University Law School.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HISTORY ABORTION (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LITIGATION (77%); ETHICS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); MEDICAL ETHICS (66%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID; SPILLENGER, CLYDE (PROF); DELLAPENNA, JOSEPH (PROF) DAVID SOUTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1992



776 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
REBELS FAN OUT IN KABUL
Thousands of Islamic guerrillas now firmly control many of the Afghan capital's sprawling neighborhoods, officials said. Afghanistan's disintegrating Government holds sway only in the city's center. 1
 
Six Afghan rebel factions said they had formed a governing council. 4
 
RUSSIA AT CAPITALIST THRESHOLD
After nearly 75 years of isolation, Russia is expected to rejoin the world economy next week, when it should be accepted as a member of the International Monetary Fund. The decision comes at a critical time for President Yeltsin. 1
 
U.N. CHIEF BALKS OVER BOSNIA
In a move that irritated France, Germany and Poland, the United Nations Secretary General told the Security Council that he could not recommend deployment of a new peacekeeping force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He said the fighting there was too fierce. 3
 
12 IDEAS ON BALKAN PEACE?
The European Community's response to violence in the Balkans makes it clear that it will be hard for the community to move toward a common foreign and security policy by next year. 3
 
OUSTED HAITIAN WANTS BLOCKADE
On a visit to Manhattan, Haiti's ousted President urged the world to step up pressure on the military junta that overthrew him by tightening an oil embargo. 4
 
PERU FIRES ON U.S. C-130
An Air Force C-130 was hit by machine-gun fire from a Peruvian Air Force plane off the coast, the U.S. Embassy said. One American airman was reported missing and two crew members were wounded. 5
 
MOLTEN MONSTER VS. MARINES
Zafferana Etnea Journal: In the battle between military technology and a wrathful volcano, there are no clear winners. Ask Sicilian villagers below Mount Etna. 2
 
National 8-11
 
BUSH THE REVOLUTIONARY
Political Memo: In this election year everyone wants to be a reformer, and that includes the President. Indeed, as he appeals for a second term by arguing that America needs a change, he sounds more like a Vaclav Havel on the eve of revolution in Czechoslovakia than a man who has already spent 11 years in the White House. 1
 
Bush and Clinton engaged in a kind of opening debate. 10
 
In a Philadelphia suburb, a Perot candidacy is finding favor. 11
 
Some Weicker advisers have begun backing Perot. 10
 
NEW TURN IN THE HOUSE BANK CASE
The Justice Department subpoenaed all financial records of every House member's transactions at the Capitol Hill bank for a 39-month period from 1988 to 1991. Speaker Foley did not indicate whether the House leadership would comply with the subpoenas. But he said he had rejected the department's informal request for most of the same records. 1
 
MORE BIG MOVES AT G.M.
Moving swiftly after a management shake-up, General Motors announced that it would attempt the largest stock offering in American history and took another step in reorganizing its huge operations. It said the goal was to produce better-quality vehicles more quickly and at less cost. 1
 
CLEAN AIR AND RARE ALIGNMENTS
News analysis: When a Federal court hears a case involving pollution rules, the parties are usually an angry state regulator and an industrial company seeking to have the regulations overturned. But the politics of the 1990 Clean Air Act have become so convoluted that the polluters are years away from court. Instead, in Federal District Court in Albany, states are suing the Federal Government to establish rules in the first place. 8
 
A new analysis backed current action on global warming. 8
 
EASING SALE OF PUBLIC ROADS
The President will issue an executive order next week making it easier for state and local officials to sell public assets like airports, roads and bridges to private businesses. 8
 
SCHOOL ACTS IN ABORTION BATTLE
After a year of controversy over its decision to recognize an abortion rights group, the nation's oldest Roman Catholic university, Georgetown, withdrew its financial support of the group and denied it space to meet. 9
 
NEW ORDER ON AIRLINE SAFETY
The F.A.A. will require airlines to replace electronic devices on about 300 planes because they can send out faulty signals, confusing air controllers and enhancing the possibility of midair collisions. 11
 
Detroit Journal: Amid urban desolation, a gleaming-new plant. 8
 
Beliefs: Of Columbus, a flat Earth, and thinking old and new. 9
 
Metropolitan Digest, 25
 
LARGER ANTI-ABORTION RANKS
Leaders of the national anti-abortion group Operation Rescue have called in reinforcements to aid their efforts in Buffalo. The mission is to counter defenses by abortion-rights advocates who managed to keep abortion clinics operating this week.1
 
WARNING ON BUDGET SURPLUS
The chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation demanded to know how New York City had generated a budget surplus, and warned that if the city increased the size and cost of government, it would risk losing at least $100 million in aid. 1
 
BROUGHT TOGETHER IN DEATH
In a park that reflects New York City's verve and diversity, four people who shared little in life died together when a gray Oldsmobile barreled onto an asphalt pathway and into the terrified crowd. 1
 
Business Digest 35
 
Sports 30-34
 
Baseball: Yankees win but lose Tartabull. 31
 
Phillies slip past Mets. 33
 
Basketball: Knicks steamroll the Pistons. 31
 
Column: Chass on Steinbrenner 31
 
Hockey: Rangers stymied by Terreri. 31
 
Consumer's World 50
 
Buying a tuner or receiver.
 
Mail-order deliveries.
 
Customized workouts.
 
Futuristic hiking boot.
 
Obituaries 12
 
Peter Joseph Fan, a bishop imprisoned by China for beliefs.
 
Robert M. Ganger, a leader in advertising in the 60's.
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-17
 
Sendak turns to film. 13
 
Cleveland Orchestra sues Jackson. 17
 
Theater: "Man of La Mancha" revived.13
 
Music: The Cleveland Orchestra. 13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials 22
 
The tides of crime.
 
Arms policy: winks, nods.
 
Michael Weinstein: Health.
 
Letters 22
 
Russell Baker: Roe, Wade and mayo. 23
 
Norman Paradis: Making a living off the dying. 23
 
Norma G. Blumenfeld: Clubs that exclude women and blacks. 23
 
Uri Savir: Alone -- and together -- in New York City. 23

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of Afghan guerrillas have moved into Kabul. 1 (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAITI (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (60%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (75%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (75%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); HAITI (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HISTORY (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



777 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Rohatyn Warns New York City It Risks Loss of Millions in Aid

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
The chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, Felix G. Rohatyn, yesterday demanded to know how New York City had generated a budget surplus. He also warned that if the city increased the size and cost of government, it would risk losing at least $100 million in aid he has promised, and maybe more.
In issuing the warning, Mr. Rohatyn joined an angry chorus of municipal labor leaders in pressing the city to explain how it managed to produce a $455 million cushion in the budget for the fiscal year that ends June 30. But he did so with precisely the opposite objective: Labor now wants raises from the city, while Mr. Rohatyn insists it cannot afford them. 
 "What is most troubling to me is that it seems that what's happened has really jeopardized, if not destroyed, the ability for the city to come to an overall long-term understanding with its unions that deals with the reality of the situation," Mr. Rohatyn said. "And I think that's a terrible cost which we're all going to have to pay for over a long time."
Mr. Rohatyn's warning came at the end of a roller-coaster week that started with Mayor David N. Dinkins announcing that he had found enough savings to renew some programs previously cut, then finished with the unions and legislators accusing the Mayor of having cried wolf to win concessions and state aid from them, only to learn that City Hall had eked out a surplus.
For months, Mr. Rohatyn has urged the city to craft a long-term plan for shrinking the size of government, tempting it with the prospect of borrowing hundreds of millions of dollars using the assistance corporation to ease the pain. But the two sides could never agree on terms, and the administration now hopes the surplus will enable it to abandon the borrowing plan, as well as efforts to satisfy Mr. Rohatyn, and begin charting its own course.
Still, Mr. Rohatyn, who is appointed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and has dominated municipal finances since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, retains considerable sway. The city is counting on the $100 million in aid he has already promised to help balance its $29 billion budget for the coming year. Without it, the city would have to make deeper spending cuts or find new money. Mr. Rohatyn also controls another $200 million in corporation money that the city wants to use as a bargaining chip with the unions in exchange for improved worker productivity.
"We fully expect him to honor his commitment," First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel said, adding that the Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, and the new Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, Barry F. Sullivan, would meet with Mr. Rohatyn to discuss his concerns. Mr. Steisel said they would also discuss a plan Mr. Rohatyn is pressing to have the assistance corporation issue new bonds to help finance long-term construction projects for the city.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, city officials said they believed Mr. Rohatyn was trying to perpetuate his influence one way or another.
Mr. Rohatyn's stand against union raises might seem to ally him with City Hall, since the Mayor contends that all of the surplus will be needed just to replace hoped-for Federal aid that was not won and avoid the costly borrowing deal that Mr. Rohatyn first supported, then opposed.
But in the strange world of the city's budget, it is not that simple. The city was first able to reduce the borrowing plan -- and thus minimize Mr. Rohatyn's influence over its affairs -- because he promised in February to give it $100 million, which he generated by refinancing some of the corporation's bonds to take advantage of lower interest rates. Now, Mr. Rohatyn wants to make sure that by giving the money, he will not lose leverage in his campaign to force the city to cut costs permanently.
He was concerned enough about protecting that leverage that he made two unsolicited telephone calls to The New York Times to state his case. He is worried that the surplus -- patched together from higher than expected tax revenues and tight cost controls -- will put political pressure on the Mayor to abandon his vow to grant raises only in exchange for greater efficiency and make more cuts in the size of the work force. In fact, the Mayor is to announce on Monday that he expects to trim the payroll by about 3,500 fewer jobs over the next four years than he previously announced, due mostly to greater hiring for special education and social services.
 
'Perfectly Good Faith'
 "We're going to ask the question, "What did the city know and when did it know it?' " Mr. Rohatyn said, adding that he has asked the Budget Director, Mr. Michael, to explain the surplus to the corporation's board next month to satisfy them that the $100 million in aid was not obtained under false pretenses.
"It may well be that at the time, they really didn't know, and were acting in perfectly good faith," Mr. Rohatyn said. But in the past, he said, the assistance corporation has provided money to the city for one purpose only to see them used for another. He said he wants to make sure that does not happen again. For years, mayors have wrangled with Mr. Rohatyn over the use of money controlled by the corporation, which was set up to borrow on the city's behalf in the last fiscal crisis, issuing bonds backed by the city's sales-tax revenues.
Mr. Michael said the city had been candid with Mr. Rohatyn about its plans for using assistance corporation money, and had told him in February it expected a surplus of $150 million or more. The full extent of the surplus became apparent only in recent weeks, he said.
"We're doing precisely what we said we were trying to do in February," Mr. Michael said. "Everyone should be applauding."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES BUDGETS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G; PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



778 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
General Motors will attempt the largest stock offering in American history and reorganize its huge vehicle-making operations. It said it would offer as many as 57.5 million shares, now worth $2.3 billion. Most investors and analysts were bullish on the move, but G.M. shares fell. [Page 1.] 
 In the bidding for First Capital Life, California's Insurance Commissioner named Pacific Mutual Life as the winner. The three other bidders included Shearson Lehman. [35.]
Coca-Cola plans to begin selling Powerade, its sports drink, in bottles and cans next month in four cities in the South, apparently having decided it would rather fight Gatorade than join it. [35.]
Deloitte & Touche appears to be making progress in improving its bottom line after initially disappointing earnings. [35.]
Natori is trying to crack markets that are already crowded, from lower-priced lingerie to jewelry and furniture. [35.]
Outside investors will increase their control of Macy. The board will be run by the likes of Henry A. Kissinger. [37.]
Goodyear reported a net income of $66.3 million, after a loss a year ago, aided by the sale of some of its businesses. [37.]
Digital Equipment said it would take a restructuring charge of $500 million to $1 billion to cover 4,000 more layoffs. [37.]
Bristol-Myers Squibb pleaded guilty to violating the Clean Water Act by letting chemicals pollute a lake in Syracuse. [25.]
 
The Economy
Fraud charges against futures traders at two New York exchanges were filed by Federal regulators. [48.]
Felix G. Rohatyn demanded to know how New York City had generated a budget surplus. [1.]
A second series of steps to lighten regulation of financial institutions was announced by the Administration. [8.]
 
International
Olympia & York received its second show of support from bankers, but the banks are still keeping the company on a tight leash. The newest loan is for Canary Wharf in London. [35.]
The German Government lashed out at Washington's call for Germany to do more to spur world growth. [35.] Western German postal workers began walking off the job in Hamburg. [41.]
U.S. and Canadian trade negotiators tried to strike a compromise on a dispute over beer that has disrupted supplies. [37.]
Russia is expected to rejoin the world economy this week, when it should be formally accepted as a member of the I.M.F. [1.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks fell sharply, jolted by computer selling. The Dow ended at 3,324.46, down 24.15 for the day and 42.04 for the week. [38.] Prices of Treasury notes and bonds moved higher. [38.]
OPEC nations agreed to keep the oil production ceiling steady in the spring. [45.] The dollar moved mostly lower. [45.]
 
Today's Columns
A patent on a lake -- it is apparently a first, scored by an aquatic biologist in Idaho. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [36.]
With interest rates low, life insurance policies should be reviewed, experts say. Jan M. Rosen: Your Money. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (85%); KO (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (85%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (70%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); I M F (57%); PRICES OF TREASURY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: I M F (57%); PRICES OF TREASURY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPORTS DRINKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); HISTORY (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (71%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); PATENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: FELIX G ROHATYN (57%); JAN M ROSEN (57%); HENRY A KISSINGER (57%); EDMUND L ANDREWS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



779 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: President to Ease Rules on Sale of Public Property

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
President Bush will issue an executive order next week making it easier for state and local officials to sell public assets like airports, roads, bridges and sewage treatment plants to private businesses, White House officials said tonight.
Plans for the order are the latest move in a campaign of deregulation and privatization driven in part by the Administration's ideology but also aimed at showing a President coping with domestic issues in an election year. 
 Only today, the Administration announced new steps in a continuing effort to lighten regulation of financial institutions. At the same time, White House officials said Mr. Bush was expected to announce next week an extension, into the summer, of the 90-day Government regulatory moratorium he ordered in January as one step to fight economic sluggishness.
The order dealing with local governments' sale of public property was first reported tonight by NBC News. In confirming plans for it, White House officials said its main provision entailed giving such governments a financial incentive to let private business take over some of their assets.
 
How the Incentive Would Work
 Airports, sewage treatment plants, bridges and other installations operated by local governments are often built with the help of Federal money. Under current Federal rules, Washington is entitled to a share of the proceeds from the sale of such property.
For example, if the Federal Government paid 60 percent of the cost of building a local airport, it may be entitled to 60 percent of the proceeds. That kind of provision discourages the local authority from selling.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, White House officials said tonight that the new executive order would reduce the share of the proceeds to be paid to the Government. The Administration has not yet settled on a formula that will determine that share.
Administration officials said the Government would not lose any money under the arrangement because the current regulations are so restrictive that hardly any sales now take place in any case.
 
Response by Governors
 Asked about the effect of the new order, James L. Martin, director of state-Federal relations at the National Governors Association, said he was not aware of any great desire by governors to sell state-owned properties to private investors.
Similarly, Michael W. Brown, a spokesman for the United States Conference of Mayors, said he had not heard much discussion of such sales. "This issue has not hit our agenda as yet," Mr. Brown said.
But an Administration official said the President's order would give local officials an incentive to put the issue higher on their agenda. "In general," said this official, "we think it's good to privatize government services."
Indeed, like the Reagan Administration before it, the Bush Administration contends that many government activities can be performed more efficiently, at lower cost, by businesses.
Independent assessments have questioned that premise, however.
The General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative and auditing arm, warned in November that "the Government should not contract out its responsibilities to serve the public or to exercise its sovereign powers."
Specifically the accounting office said that several Federal agencies, including the Transportation Department, the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, had probably gone too far in hiring private contractors to perform Government functions. The accounting office said that many tasks being contracted out by those agencies were core Government responsibilities and that in any case the use of contractors sometimes cost more than if the agencies performed the work themselves.
As for the steps announced earlier today on lightening regulation of financial institutions, the most significant was the issuance of a final rule by the Environmental Protection Agency to protect lenders from financial liability for damage to the environment caused by their borrowers. Some lenders fear that under Federal law they may be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up contaminated properties.
The American Bankers Association welcomed that action, saying it would help banks that lend to such businesses as dry cleaners, gas stations and farms.
The Administration also announced a program to establish uniform policies for Government examination of financial institutions. The four Federal agencies supervising such institutions agreed to work together to overcome what the White House called the "balkanization" of authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); WHITE HOUSE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC PROPERTY; PRIVATIZATION OF INDUSTRY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STATES (US); LOCAL GOVERNMENT; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; AIRPORTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MAYORS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



780 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says a C-130 Was Hit by Gunfire From Peru

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 24

 BODY:
An unarmed American military transport plane, flying on a routine counter-drug mission off the northern coast of Peru, was fired on by a Peruvian Air Force plane this afternoon, a spokesman for the American Embassy said this evening.
One crew member was missing, reportedly falling out of the plane when a door on the C-130 transport plane was blown open by the machine-gun fire from the Peruvian aircraft. Two other crew members were reported wounded, one superficially. 
 The C-130 managed to land at an air strip in Talara in the northern coast of Peru near the Ecuadoran border, said the spokeman, Donald R. Hamilton.
Mr. Hamilton said the American Ambassador, Anthony C. E. Quainton, had called President Alberto K. Fujimori about the incident and expressed "alarm and concern."
 
Apology From Fujimori
 Mr. Hamilton said that Mr. Fujimori had apologized for the incident and that the President said he would begin a full investigation.
"Exactly what happened is not yet clear to us," Mr. Hamilton said, adding that Ambassador Quainton was on his way to Talara. "It was a routine flight and clearance for the flight had been granted."
The incident happened about 5 P.M. Lima time. The plane, based in Panama, was hit by one of two Peruvian Air Force planes. Mr. Hamilton said that the aircraft was unarmed and that there were no radio warnings before the attack.
The Pentagon did not release the identity of the missing crew member or either of the wounded. It was not known how many were on the plane when it was hit, but Mr. Hamilton said it was a small crew.
The C-130 is a principal transport planes for the United States Air Force and many are used by the military in Latin American.
Peru has recently been nervous about its northern border with Ecuador and southern border with Chile. For decades there have been border disputes between the countries that at times have brought them close to conflict.
Pentagon officials said the United States military base in Panama had dispatched a plane with emergency medical and repair equipment to the landing strip in Talara.
When President Alberto K. Fujimori seized broad powers on April 5, he explained the move as necessary to fight the Shining Path guerrilla movement. Today, claiming a major strike against the guerrillas, Peru's counterterrorism police provided details today of a series of raids in which they shut down El Diario, the clandestine newspaper that had regularly circulated the directives and views of the Maoist revolutionary organization.
The announcements, dribbled out Thursday and today, assert that 23 suspected staff members of the paper were arrested and printing presses and paper were seized in operations on April 13 and 14 in southern Lima. The announcements reflected the most dramatic Government move against the guerrillas since President Fujimori seized broad powers.
The Government continued to face upheavals. This afternoon, Foreign Minister Augusto Blacker Miller resigned, as did the Minister of Industry, Commerce, Tourism and Integration, Victor Joy Way. Prime Minister Oscar de La Puente assumed the office of Foreign Minister, and Jorge Camet, a businessman, was sworn in as Industry Minister.
The future of Carlos Bolona was still uncertain. His resignation as Minister of Economy and Finance, submitted earlier this week, was withdrawn, officials said..
As the police proudly proclaimed their achievement, independent experts on the Shining Path acknowledged that suppressing the paper was a blow to the guerrillas. But they said the success of the raids owed nothing to the President's decision to suspend Parliament and curb the judiciary.
"Capturing El Diario doesn't need a coup or new laws," said Diego Garcia-Sayan, head of the Andean Commission of Jurists, a human-rights organization. "It just shows that one of the few organizations that is efficient here is Dircote," he said referring to the anti-terrorist unit.
During the news conference, the police paraded the accused Shining Path members in front of journalists. The police said typewriters, presses, two Macintosh computers and large amounts of Shining Path literature were confiscated.
"Shining Path has been affected in an important way," Interior Minister Juan Briones Davila told reporters. Dircote officials said the next issue of El Dario had been planned for April 15.
Some of the independent experts said they did not think the paper would be out of business permanently.
"If you look at what was seized, it was all easily replaceable stuff," said Gustavo Gorriti, author of a book on the Shining Path. "The Shining Path needs a newspaper now. I'd say it will appear within two months, maybe within a month."
In recent years, El Diario had become the main propaganda and communication organ for the Shining Path.
El Diario carried speeches by and interviews with the Shining Path founder and leader, Abimael Guzman, also known as President Gonzalo. Shining Path would also use El Diario to explain why it killed certain people. Experts studied each issue to identify shifts of policy, mood or strategy.
A legal radical left-wing paper in the 1980's, El Diario was slowly infiltrated by Shining Path sympathizers and eventually taken over. As an illicit organ, the paper claimed a circulation of more than 5,000. It was not sold openly on the streets of Lima, but it could be bought in some neighborhoods and was sent through the mail.
Among the 23 suspected members of the "cell" that published El Diario, the most important figure, experts say, is Jorge Duran Araujo, considered the director of the operation. Mr. Duran is the brother of Maximiliano Duran, a known Shining Path leader who is based in Paris and raises funds and promotes the group's causes in Europe. Maximiliano Duran is considered a likely successor to Mr. Guzman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; AIR FORCES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY AIRCRAFT (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ARRESTS (60%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C DONALD R HAMILTON (83%); ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



781 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Exiled Haiti Leader Urges Tougher Oil Sanctions

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
Calling for stronger sanctions against Haiti's military-backed Government, the nation's ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, urged the world yesterday to establish "a real blockade" by tightening an oil embargo.
On a visit to New York, Father Aristide made his appeal at a news conference at City Hall after a meeting with Mayor David N. Dinkins. Emphasizing that Father Aristide was Haiti's first democratically elected President, the Mayor pledged to "do all we can to assure that he is returned to office." 
 In a statement, Mr. Dinkins accused Washington of failing "to intervene and help this democratic movement in its moment of crisis." And the City Council issued a proclamation saluting "President Jean-Bertrand Aristide for his continuing efforts on behalf of the disenfranchised of Haiti."
When the exiled Haitian leader was asked what was needed to make the economic sanctions against Haiti's military rulers more effective, he said: "Without petrol, those who led the coup cannot resist. That should be just a question of days."
In the first action to enforce the embargo since the coup in September, the United States seized a tanker in Puerto Rico on March 31 after it delivered 250,000 gallons of diesel fuel. The Associated Press reported yesterday that officials in Washington said the Administration was considering additional steps to restore democracy in Haiti, including a tightening of the oil embargo.
Questioned about the devastating effect of sanctions on the Haitian people, Father Aristide said that to have democracy restored in Haiti, the people "accept these big sacrifices" and "say yes to the embargo."
He said the main obstacle to the return of democracy is "a gang of thugs in the army, those who led the coup, who still have the same weapons." For that reason, he said, Parliament was not free to ratify the political agreement promoted by the Organization of American States.
Addressing the human-rights situation in his country, Father Aristide said more than 2,000 people had been killed since the Sept. 30 coup and asked why the world had not done something to stop "this tragedy."
When asked by a Haitian television reporter if he had any doubts about his return, the deposed President said: "Tell them I will be back. In my mind there is no doubt."
Father Aristide and Mr. Dinkins are expected to attend a rally organized by New York's Haitians at the Great Lawn in Central Park tomorrow beginning about 3 P.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; NEW YORK CITY HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (REV); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); HOWE, MARVINE JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



782 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Stocks Are Higher

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 24

 BODY:
Japanese stocks ended higher today as institutional buying and bargain-hunting propelled prices in the run-up to a weekend meeting by the world's leading industrial powers.
 But brokers also said that profit taking checked the market's gains. 
 The 225-share Nikkei average closed at 17,542.45,, up 140.40 points, or 0.81 percent, with about 300 million shares changing hands.
 The Nikkei ended at its highest level for a week, though still 38.24 points below last Friday's close.
 "A rumor that Japan may lower interest rates further following the G-7 meeting in Washington gave afternoon sentiment a boost," said Masahiko Tsuyuzaki of Tachibana Securities. The G-7, or the Group of Seven industrial nations -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- meets this weekend in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (65%); GERMANY (50%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE TACHIBANA SECURITIES CO LTD (55%); GROUP OF SEVEN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP OF SEVEN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (65%); GERMANY (50%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: MASAHIKO TSUYUZAKI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



783 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Abortion War, Buffalo Front: Top Guns Use Battle Tactics

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUFFALO, April 24

 BODY:
Several days into a long-planned struggle over abortion rights here, leaders of the national anti-abortion group Operation Rescue took stock of the battlefield and saw less than a victory. The skirmishes in Buffalo did not bode well for their next major target, the Democratic Convention in New York City this July.
So they called in reinforcements. "We got the word," said a regional director from the West Coast. The other side was using a strategy to defend the clinics here that had been successfully used in California. 
 "So they called us in as tactical team," said Dave Conrardy, a field coordinator with Operation Rescue's Los Angeles office.
 
Lessons Learned, Defenses Hold
 Their mission: counter clinic defenses coordinated by Katherine Spillar, the Los Angeles-based national coordinator of the Feminist Majority, who six weeks earlier had come to Buffalo to instruct abortion-rights advocates on the lessons learned in other states.
So far, those defenses have held. Though hundreds of anti-abortion protesters spilled into Buffalo through the week, willing to go to jail to make their point, Operation Rescue did not shut down any abortion clinics here this week. Even so, both sides in the debate say the real showdown should come on Saturday.
With the United States Supreme Court hearing arguments this week about a Pennsylvania law that would impose restrictions on abortions and possibly give the Court an opportunity to reverse the abortion rights established by Roe v. Wade in 1973, Buffalo has become the human battleground in the emotional debate.
 
Setting Course for Many Issues
 Protesters on both sides of the police lines believe the resolution of the abortion issue will set the course for a broad spectrum of future political decisions varying from the rights of homosexuals to the definition of pornography. As a result, the top guns on both sides of the debate have descended on this gritty northern city, tying up phone lines and dominating the nightly news.
A National Organization for Women board meeting was hastily moved from Florida to the front lines in Buffalo. N.O.W.'s past president, Eleanor Smeal, shuttled between her Washington office and defense lines outside the clinics here. Elizabeth Holtzman, the New York City Comptroller and a candidate for the United States Senate, made the shorter trip from New York.
In a week of protests here a small army of praying, chanting and crucifix-bearing supporters have snarled traffic in parts of Buffalo, put the city's collective nerves on edge and attracted the attention of television cameras and reporters from across the country.
More than 250 people have been arrested, including more than 70 anti-abortion protesters who were arrested today. Most of those arrested have refused to post bail and are still in police custody.
 
A Floating Chess Game
 For both sides, the issue is an extravagant, moving chess game that shifts from city to city.
The Rev. Paul Schenck, a 33-year-old Assembly of God pastor and major figure in the local Operation Rescue effort, speaks of the need for a "spiritual revolution" that could return the United States to a "pro-family" nation. He talks of an America in which families are defined by "the overt leadership of a father-husband and the covert leadership of a mother-wife."
Ms. Spillar says she believes the Operation Rescue effort is nothing more than a thinly veiled drive to undercut women's rights in all their forms. "They want women to put their aprons back on and retreat to the kitchens," she said. "They are very threatened."
 
Partly Sport, War and Show
 It is difficult to say if the stylized, highly coordinated demonstrations this week were more sports event ("Hey, hey! Ho, ho! Boot 'em out of Buffalo!"); military maneuvering ("Let's go for a diversion in the front, then slam through their rear") or travelling road show replete with souvenirs.
But both sides call this war. And to wage it, each has used its own armies of the morning. Before dawn, Operation Rescue volunteers gather at a church outside Buffalo to pray and plot their strategy. Team organizers hand out maps and sometimes speak in codes that refer to "rescues" where they hope to prevent a woman from obtaining an abortion. They pray for strength and perseverance. They prepare themselves for arrest.
As the Operation Rescue volunteers meet, abortion-rights supporters with Buffalo United for Choice, a group formed specifically to counter Operation Rescue, handle six phone lines at their command center and jot down notes from reports coming in from the field.
 
Training Sessions and Spies
 Outside, downtown and in nearby Amherst, volunteers conduct 5 A.M. training sessions, linking arms and running through mock exercises to repel physical assaults. The morning's crop of volunteers are warned of tactics used by Operation Rescue in the past and taught how to counter them. Their ranks are infiltrated, too, by Operation Rescue supporters sent over on reconnaissance. Each side acknowledges that it spies on the other and is spied on.
By dawn, the movements begin. A convoy of up to 100 cars heads into the city. Another, perhaps, goes toward a clinic in the suburb of Amherst. Radios crackle and the chants begin. In the cold morning air, site leaders chat with "peacekeepers" wearing orange vests. Quadrant leaders monitor the area of the defensive line to which they have been assigned, give pep talks and review instructions with the 50 to 100 clinic defenders gathered outside.
Their fear is that the Operation Rescue workers will be able to chain themselves in front of the clinics and jam the entrances. Volunteers are warned not to let even police officers through without a trained escort from the Pro-Choice Network, to prevent confusion.
When the protesters arrive, the struggle starts. Abortion-rights supporters shout about Nazi tactics and call the protesters facists. Feet away, "Spring of Life" volunteers respond with prayers and shouts of "murder."
Coordinators of each group stand on the sidelines, refining tactics, moving volunteers and barking orders into cellular phones. Some approaches work only briefly. Early in the week, the Rev. Joseph Slovenec, a Cleveland Heights pastor who is one of Operation Rescue's regional leaders, was surrounded by abortion rights advocates, to "keep him away from his flock." By Thursday, Mr. Slovenec had solved that problem, arriving at a demonstration outside the Erie Medical Center with two cellular phones -- one pressed to each ear.
 
An Odd Staging Ground
 Buffalo, a quiet industrial city no longer in its prime, is an odd staging ground for this battle. Yet there was a certain inevitability to the confrontations. "Operation Rescue had an interest in Buffalo for three years," said Mr. Schenck. "We had a good, strong pro-life political base. We had a strongly pro-life Catholic base." The question was always 'when,' not 'if.' "
Late last year Operation Rescue was publicly welcomed by Mayor James Griffin. And organizers eager to find a warm-up site for even larger protests scheduled during the Democratic Convention agreed to start on April 20. The announcement was made about Christmas, giving both groups 16 weeks to prepare.
Mr. Schenck, a longtime friend of Operation Rescue's national coordinator, Randall Terry, who has not appeared at the demonstrations, said that the Operation Rescue movement grew out of a 36-hour prayer meeting in Binghamton in 1987.
Protests started in 1988, at the Democratic Convention in Atlanta. From there, it moved on to California, where it faced organized resistance.
"We decided we had to devise a clinic defense strategy," to prevent protesters from gaining access to clinic entryways, Ms. Spillar explained. Opponents of abortion lay down in front of clinic doors and chained themselves together and to building fronts. "They were only using about 500 people," said Ms. Spillar, "yet they were creating the impression in the media that there was a massive grass-roots anti-abortion movement in the country, when there was not."
When Operation Rescue began protests in Wichita last summer, abortion-rights supporters offered the clinics help. The Kansas clinics said they preferred to let the police handle any crisis alone. In fact, the police could not. The protests continued for 46 days with several clinics being closed down and 2,600 people arrested. Abortion-rights supporters vowed it would never be repeated.
 
Volunteers Mobilize
 Thus, when the current "Spring of Life" protest was scheduled, there was a flurry of phone calls to Buffalo from people offering to help. At first, the reaction was tepid. The Pro-Choice Network, which had supplied escorts to Buffalo area clinics during four years of picketing here (and at least 454 arrests of abortion opponents), wanted to ignore the protests.
But eight other groups banded together with thousands of volunteers and formed Buffalo United for Choice (B.U.C.). Fund-raising events and mailings started immediately. Training and tactics came later.
Mr. Schenck and other leaders, meanwhile, prepared their side. Seven breakfast meetings with clergy members were held to drum up support. Volunteers were found to house as many as 1,000 anti-abortion protesters. And financing was sought for the $2,500-to-$3,000-a-day expenses.
While leaders on each side carry broad notions of what is at stake here, those who come to pray or shout on the sidelines come for reasons of their own.
Lucille VanZandt of Ann Arbor, Mich., a 33-year-old mother and child care worker, stood with her head bent in prayer with Operation Rescue members outside the Erie Medical Center on Thursday. She was there, she said, because she had an abortion years ago and never recovered from the experience. "I didn't know the Lord Jesus then," she said.
Not 20 feet away, Darcy D. France, a 31-year-old social worker and mother of two, said: "I made a very tough decision one day in my life. I had just finished school and I was unemployed. It's a terrible decision. But I don't want anyone dictating to me what I should do with my body."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The defenses set up to protect abortion clinics in Buffalo have held fast this week, despite the efforts of hundreds of anti-abortion protesters. Erie County deputies moved yesterday to break up a group of protesters who tried to prevent an abortion clinic's employee from entering the building. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OPERATION RESCUE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPERATION RESCUE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BUFFALO (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ABORTION (95%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARRESTS (86%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); BAIL (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); RIOTS (63%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



784 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Beer Dispute Compromise Being Sought

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
American and Canadian trade negotiators tried to strike a compromise this evening on a dispute over beer that has disrupted supplies on both sides of the border and become increasingly irritating in diplomatic relations. The talks broke off tonight and are scheduled to resume on Saturday.
Administration officials said that if no agreement could be concluded quickly, they would have to announce punitive duties on Canadian beer imports. These imports have dropped off sharply since April 14, when the United States confused and angered Canadian breweries by saying it was considering whether to impose much higher duties and make the increases retroactive. 
 The United States has been seeking the elimination of many marketing rules set by Canadian provinces to protect local breweries. The Bush Administration contends that these rules unfairly restrict American beer sales there, and it most recently set a deadline of July 1 for a solution.
 
Alcohol Taxes Are Debated
 Canada has complained that Federal and state alcohol taxes in the United States have unfairly limited Canadian beer sales, but this issue is being negotiated on a separate and slower track.
The United States imports about $150 million worth of Canadian beer a year, or less than 2 percent of the overall American market. But high-priced Canadian beers, like Moosehead, Labatt's and Molson, hold larger market shares in Northern states, including New York, and in affluent urban areas where more people can afford them.
The United States and Canada had not expected to deal with the issue until later this spring. But they were forced to act quickly when the seemingly minor announcement last week by American officials about the increase in duties had the unintended effect of shutting down much of the cross-border beer trade, hurting companies on both sides.
 
Retroactive Penalty Duties
 The Bush Administration announced last week that if it eventually imposed steep penalty duties on Canadian beer imports, the duties would be collected retroactively on all Canadian beer crossing the border after April 12.
American trade officials said at the time that they wanted to prevent Canadian breweries from shipping thousands of gallons of beer across the border into United States warehouses to beat the imposition of new tariffs. But Canadian companies, led by Moosehead and Labatt's, responded by cutting off many beer shipments because they did not want to risk owing enormous duties later that might wipe out their profits.
The Canadian breweries' decision prompted the provincial liquor purchasing agency in Ontario to stop buying American beer last week, angering breweries south of the border. The National Beer Wholesalers Association, a trade group based in Falls Church, Va., then entered the dispute on Thursday of this week, publicly threatening a lawsuit if the issue was not sorted out.
 
Compromising Under Way
 Even before the threat of litigation emerged, Administration officials had already concluded this week that they would at least have to announce the level of tariffs quickly. The intention was to reassure Canadian breweries that the duties would not be astronomical while allowing them to start including higher beer duties in their prices.
Also this week, the Canadian provinces offered to accelerate their liquor industry reforms to meet American demands. Like previous Canadian offers, this proposal was made not to American negotiators at the Office of the United States Trade Representative, but indirectly through the National Security Council.
Both the trade office and the security council are part of the White House, and Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, officially outranks Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser in the Administration hierarchy. But Derek H. Burney, the Canadian Ambassador, has developed a friendship with Mr. Scowcroft during annual economic summit meetings, and Mr. Burney has been using the relationship to argue that trade frictions hurt overall relations between the countries, Administration officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNG (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (92%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BEER; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); BEER & ALE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BREWERIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SHIPMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (69%); LITIGATION (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



785 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Hard Choices for Russians

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 24

 BODY:
After nearly 75 years of deliberate isolation, Russia is expected to rejoin the world economy next week, when it should be formally accepted as a member of the International Monetary Fund. This is occurring at a critical time for President Boris N. Yeltsin, who must make some politically difficult decisions to keep his vaunted economic reform moving.
Without these decisions -- primarily to restructure the bulky industrial economy and thereby bring about the inevitable displacement of thousands of workers -- the reform could fail to go far enough to get the billions of dollars of aid being prepared by the I.M.F. and Western nations. Russian leaders know that to receive the much needed Western aid, they will have to submit to I.M.F. discipline and tighten the collective economic belt ever tighter.
 
Credit Is Expanded
 But already some serious signs of slippage have occurred in Mr. Yeltsin's program of economic reform. Aware that the sudden rise of prices without a similar rise in income has led to widespread grumbling, the Russian Government in recent weeks has begun to loosen up on its tight-money policy. 
 Timed to the recent Congress of People's Deputies meeting, where criticism of the free-pricing reform was expected, Mr. Yeltsin and his top economic adviser, Yegor T. Gaidar, allowed incomes to rise and expanded the supply of credit to enterprises.
These steps have caused concern in Washington and Western Europe, where leaders are pressing Mr. Yeltsin to be politically bold in letting Mr. Gaidar's reform plan go ahead. Leaders of the Group of 7 industrial nations, which have promised billions of dollars of aid, also gather in Washington this weekend, with the state of Russian reform high on their agenda.
Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gaidar have promised Western leaders and the international lending agencies that the recent loosening of tight money and expansion of credits -- after only three months of the reform -- are temporary, and that the reforms will continue despite a verbal battering over the last two weeks from conservatives in the Russian Parliament.
Today, for instance, the Russian Government announced that there would be a 150 percent increase in the price of gasoline at the pumps, making a full tank roughly equivalent to a week's wages for the average person. Under the new rules, producers of oil can sell it to distributors for 2,200 rubles per metric ton, or about $18 at the current exchange rate. This is triple the current domestic price of 720 rubles per metric ton, or $6, but only a fraction of the world market rate of $148 per metric ton. Western economists have urged the Russian Government to raise their oil prices to the world level to bring in more income and avoid waste.
But other than price increases, which had begun to level off in some areas, and in fact had led to some modest improvement of supplies of food in some locales, there has been almost no structural reform of this distorted economy, Western diplomats and bankers say.
 
Unprofitable Concerns Survive
 In particular, large unprofitable state enterprises, once the bellwether of Soviet industry, are staying alive, thanks to continued credit, both from the state and one another, and have done little to make themselves efficient or profitable. The Government has done little to privatize them, or to create competition in an economy structured around huge factory complexes that were monopoly producers of goods from light bulbs to tractors and tanks.
If such structural change is going to happen, as Western experts believe it must, many large enterprises will have to reduce their workforces sharply and alter their products or go bankrupt.
This would be more painful than the price rises that began in January, increasing the political cacophony from the Congress of People's Deputies.
Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gaidar emerged relatively unscathed from the recent two-week session. While it tested the will and relative political strength of major social forces, it actually represented only a first round in the struggle for the future of Russia and the reform.
"Gaidar promises that the essence of the reforms will continue," a senior Western diplomat said. "But how you define 'the essence' is crucial. And that leads to the real question: Can the Government stick with it, now that reform will start getting really painful? Was the Congress a tactical trimming, or the beginning of a collapse of will?"
 
Bankruptcies Feared
 Over the next three months, he said, if reforms are pursued and the loosening of credit is not followed by further loosening, large enterprises will start to go bankrupt, throwing employees out of work. The Congress will come back into session, and then the problems will really begin to mount.
In an effort to balance political survival and reform, Mr. Yeltsin made some pre-emptive concessions to so-called conservative forces -- representing the bureaucracy and the managers of large state enterprises and collective farms -- before the opening of the Congress on April 6.
By loosening credit, postponing increases in energy prices and sanctioning a bigger budget deficit, Mr. Gaidar diluted the economic discipline considered vital to the reforms, and to Western support for them.
As a result of these concessions, deficit spending will rise in the second quarter of the year from 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, which is roughly 5 trillion rubles, to 5 percent. That includes 200 billion rubles in increased credits designed for state enterprises engaged in key activities like energy production and food processing.
However well designed to prompt growth in an economy that has shrunk for four years now, this increased spending has sparked public expressions of concern from people like Michael Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, who worry that increased credits may become a habit.
 
Ruble Stabilization Demanded
 Speaking Thursday in Washington, Mr. Camdessus said Russia would have to carry out credible economic policies, including control over credit and realistic interest rates, to qualify for promised Western aid of some $24 billion, including a ruble-stabilization fund of $6 billion. "That could take some time," he said, since Russia and the I.M.F. must still agree on strict financial targets in a formal lending plan, which must itself be in place before any ruble-stabilization fund can be instituted.
What worries Western experts is the lack of change in large enterprises, which employ millions of workers and waste millions of rubles.
The enterprises are still living off credit and avoiding hard economic choices. Some are simply paying their workers without producing anything, while others are producing but neither selling nor lowering their prices in response to falling demand, because they fear higher inflation to come.
If the Government's credit spigot remains open, the result will be hyperinflation, which will make stabilizing the ruble almost impossible.
 
Respect for Yeltsin's Courage
 Despite the concern, there is respect for Mr. Yeltsin's courage.
Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gaidar had to begin somewhere to stabilize an economy in free fall, make the ruble convertible, privatize state enterprises and demonopolize manufacturers, all vital to a market economy. They started with prices, which had come to bear no connection to costs. The price reform in January has produced better supplies in some sectors. After rapid increases, market forces have started to work, and some prices have begun to come down.
This is also true outside the major cities, but shortages still exist. The newspaper Trud did a survey of 132 Russian cities in March and the first week of April, and found that price rises have slowed, while beef, sausage and onions have become cheaper in some towns.
But on the day of the survey, there was no beef at all in 11 cities, no fresh fish in 108 cities, no vegetable oil in 34 cities, no hard cheese in 48 cities and no cottage cheese in 34 cities. In 10 cities, the paper said, there was no bread.
Some Westerners have made much of the huge private bazaars in the major cities, where private citizens sell food, drink and clothing. Today, for instance, there were at least 6,000 people buying, selling and gawking around Red Square alone.
But the mentality of the market has yet to take hold among the mass of retailers, who still work for the state. Western diplomats are frustrated with the refusal of many shopkeepers to lower prices to encourage sales -- of beef that is about to go bad, for instance. Not paying for the meat themselves, shopkeepers have no great incentive to increase sales or cut losses.
In the meantime, wages continue to drop in real terms, despite increases to try to adjust for higher prices. But this is also considered necessary pain. If wages rose faster the prices, inflation, already about 30 percent a month and which Mr. Gaidar wants to bring down to 3 or 4 percent a month, would grow even faster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) WESTERN EUROPE (68%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; CREDIT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); GASOLINE (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); TRENDS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BORIS N YELTSIN (92%); YEGOR T GAIDAR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



786 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Natori Planning to Cast a Wider Net

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE SCHIRO

 BODY:
Who would have thought that a successful career in stocks and bonds would prepare someone for success in the world of nighties and slippers?
But Wall Street is where Josie and Ken Natori acquired the business expertise to assault the frilly pink and white domain of lingerie with bold colors, prints and appliques. Then they popularized innerwear-as-outerwear, finding a broad new market for bodysuits, leggings and nightgowns beyond the bedroom. 
 Now, the Natori Company is trying to crack markets that are already crowded. The company plans to make lower-priced lingerie and to take on an assortment of licensees to produce Natori underwear, Natori travel accessories, Natori fragrances, Natori sheets, Natori tableware, Natori jewelry and Natori furniture. There will be Natori boutiques throughout the United States, and more Natori everything for sale in foreign countries.
The company aims to grow from $28 million in sales last year to $100 million by 1996, with half of that from licensed products. Customers will be able to live a full Natori life style. Ralph Lauren, are you listening?
Already among the most influential figures in their field of fashion, Josie and Ken Natori now face some calculated risks in extending their reach. Like the economy in general, the intimate-apparel industry is growing only slowly. Donna Karan's new lingerie line will collide with the Natori line, where prices average $120. And the success of Victoria's Secret and other makers of moderately priced lingerie pose a challenge for Natori's new Josie label, with prices averaging $20 to $30.
"She's going to have a more difficult time with the Josie line because she'll be competing with people like me and other firms that have a solid ground in this area," said Norman Katz, president of the I. Appel Corporation and chairman of the Intimate Apparel Council. And Mrs. Natori might be competing with herself, he continued, adding: "The question is can she maintain a look for Natori and a look for Josie? If Josie looks too much like Natori, why buy Natori?"
But in the fashion industry, where many entrepreneurs begin with imaginative designs but no money sense, the Natoris still count on their business background to give them an edge.
"It was good that I wasn't just a designer," said Josie Natori, 44 years old, who rose from stockbroker to vice president in investment banking at Merrill Lynch before changing careers. "I started a business with an understanding of the mechanics of business, of economics and cash flow. I don't know how anyone can survive without that."
Her husband, Kenneth R. Natori, 48, was senior executive vice president of the brokerage then called Shearson American Express before he become his wife's business partner in 1985. He is now the lingerie company's chairman, responsible for operations, finance and licensing. Mrs. Natori, as president, is far more visible, focusing on the creative side.
 
Philippine Connection
 Having Josie's father, a Philippine contractor, build the company's factories in the Philippines allowed Natori to pursue a distinctive style based on traditional Philippine embroidery and appliques. In competition with established lingerie companies like Christian Dior and Fernando Sanchez, Mrs. Natori has created a comfortable niche at the upper end of the $7 billion lingerie industry. "She established herself as the prime designer of better intimate apparel," Mr. Katz of I. Appel said.
The Natoris are, above all, experts in marketing themselves. They manage to go out several nights a week to fashion industry events and charity parties. Josie's French couture wardrobe -- her business uniform is a tailored jacket by Dior, Pierre Cardin or Yves Saint Laurent, with a short skirt and high-heeled pumps -- and outgoing personality have added to her visibility. She flies around the country for store appearances and frequently jets over to Paris, where the Natoris have had a boutique and a showroom since 1987. Their products are currently sold in 40 countries.
"Josie knows how to present herself," Mr. Katz said. "When she goes into a store for a personal appearance, her personality really comes through to the consumer."
 
Starting With Nightshirts
 The Natoris share a spacious corner office decorated with fresh flowers and Chinese celadon plates on stands. Mr. Natori sits at an antique partners' desk with a leather top while Mrs. Natori uses a modern one topped with black marble. They are so seldom in the office together that they celebrate their few lunch dates by bringing in seafood salad and white wine.
It all started when Mrs. Natori imported a few embroidered shirts from the Philippines. She visited a Bloomingdale's buyer, who suggested she lengthen them into nightshirts. She quit her job, flew to Manila in May 1977, and by August had assembled a small collection of nightshirts.
"We did it slowly, initially showing in our apartment," Mr. Natori said. "On Saturday, I acted as a butler, serving wine to her buyers."
The cold-calling skills Mrs. Natori learned as a stockbroker came in handy for calling on department stores. In April 1978, the business had grown enough for the couple to spend $200,000 of their savings to open a small showroom on East 34th Street in Manhattan. The business has grown so much that the company now has a whole floor, plus a design studio in a building around the corner.
 
New Evening Wear Line
 A new evening wear line, called the Josie Natori Collection, evolved out of a meeting in 1990 with Lynn Manulis, the president of Martha International. "She started showing me bodysuits and this georgette nightgown, and I said, 'Let's take this out of the bedroom,' " Mrs. Manulis recalled. "I said, 'Let's do a small collection of bodysuits, leggings and nighties that go out.' "
The timing was right, as lace bras and beaded bustiers to wear in public were showing up in fashion collections.
The Josie Natori Collection also soon attracted Bergdorf Goodman and Fred Hayman. After a year and a half of working on the line herself, Mrs. Natori decided earlier this year to hire a fashion designer and broaden it into a collection of dressy evening sportswear, not just lingerie to wear out. Prices range from about $160 to more than $2,000.
 
Approach to Licensed Products
 For licensed products, the Natoris spend years honing their approach before turning production over to an outside company. They made their own bed coverings for four years before licensing another company in 1990 to make their sheets, towels and comforters. They have recently put together a presentation of their wallpaper and home fabric ideas, the first step in establishing a full range of furniture, rugs and tableware.
The Natoris keep a close eye on their licensed products, overseeing design and sales. "The most important thing we have to franchise is our name, and we protect it at all cost," Mr. Natori said.
Bestform Foundation Inc. of New York has made bras, panties and the like for the Natori line and is about to introduce the moderately priced Josie products.
Despite stronger competition as the company appeals to a broader market, Mrs. Natori said that stores reacted so favorably to the Josie line's initial offering in March that it should surpass her expectations. "We had projected to do $5 million the first year," she added, "but now we expect to do $8 million."
 
Negotiations Abroad
 Not that the Natoris will rely on just the domestic market. They are negotiating with a Spanish company to open a Josie boutique in Madrid and to develop a European catalogue. And in mid-May they expect to sign contracts with Pola Cosmetics, a $2 billion Japanese company, to open Natori shops in Japan.
All part of an orderly expansion plan, Mrs. Natori said. "Everything we do connects, from sleepwear to at-home to home furnishings to bath products," she said. "Bathing suits could connect. But not career wear."
She paused a second. "At least not yet," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Using business expertise acquired on Wall Street, Josie and Ken Natori, right, popularized innerwear-as-outerwear and found a broad market beyond the bedroom. A model wears apparel from the new Natori line. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 35)
 
Graph: "Natori's Growth," tracks Natori's sales, 1981-1991 (Source': Company reports) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2922 (TSE) (72%); AXP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (72%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATORI CO NATORI CO LTD (72%); I APPEL CORP (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATORI CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FRANCHISES; LICENSING AGREEMENTS LINGERIE (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BONDS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); LINGERIE MFG (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (77%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: SCHIRO, ANNE-MARIE; NATORI, KEN; NATORI, JOSIE RALPH LAUREN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



787 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Bond Prices Move Higher in Thin Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds moved higher and interest rates inched lower yesterday in very thin trading.
Market participants said that most of the day's activity was telescoped into the first two hours of trading, and it was primarily concentrated in the purchase of short-term bills and notes. 
 "There has been tremendous demand for short-term paper," said William V. Sullivan Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds.
Mr. Sullivan said that much of the money going into bills and notes was probably being rolled into those securities from maturing instruments like Treasury cash management bills. Analysts said that more than $14 billion worth of those securities matured this week.
 
Announcement Wednesday
 "With the refunding auctions little more than a week off, the play is in the short end," said Jay Goldinger, a principal at Capital Insight, a bond brokerage firm in Beverly Hills, Calif.
On Wednesday the Treasury is expected to announce how many new 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds it will sell at auctions beginning May 5. Most analysts expect a total of $37 billion worth of those securities will be auctioned.
Bond prices, which had been weak through most of the session, rallied near the close and ended higher on the day.
While the looming supply of new bonds is a concern to traders, some analysts said that fears of a vigorous recovery that would rekindle inflation seemed to be abating among bond investors.
"Recent economic data have reinforced our view that the recovery will be sluggish," analysts at MMS International, an economic information and service company, wrote in their daily market commentary. "And predictions of a robust recovery are losing popularity."
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 9919/32 , up 3/32 , to yield 8.03 percent, compared with 8.04 percent late Thursday and 7.93 percent on April 17.
Among Treasury note issues outstanding, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 9930/32 , up 7/32 , to yield 7.50 percent. And the 5 3/8 percent two-year notes auctioned earlier in the week were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 5.32 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates fell.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.65 percent late yesterday, down one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by three basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.80 percent.
 
Kroger Offer
 In the corporate bond market, the Kroger Corporation offered $250 million worth of seven-year senior subordinated notes through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The noncallable 10 percent securities were priced at $100, or par, 2.80 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 percent seven-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated B-1 by Moody's Investors Service and B by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
JP Morgan Securities, a subsidiary of J. P. Morgan & Company, acted as lead manager for an offering of $75 million worth of noncallable five-year notes for the Trinova Corporation.
The 7.95 percent securities were priced at $99.653 to yield 8.036 percent, 1.15 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 6 7/8 percent five-year notes at the time of pricing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PRICES OF TREASURY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N CLARE SHORT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



788 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Call to Cut Deficit Draws German Ire

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Just two days before the Group of Seven's finance ministers are to meet here to discuss the world economy and aid to the former Soviet Union, the German Government lashed out at Washington's call for Germany to do more to spur world growth.
Using unusually harsh language, a senior German Finance Ministry official said today that the United States should not meddle in Germany's internal affairs. He said American officials had made "false" and "one-sided" statements on Thursday when they urged Bonn to lower its budget deficit to give Germany's central bank some latitude to lower its interest rates.
 
Seeks Lower Rates
 American officials have long asserted that the economic slowdown that Germany's high rates have caused in Europe will make it far harder for the states of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union to make the transition to a market economy. On Thursday, Treasury Under Secretary David C. Mulford called on Germany to move faster to lower its interest rates, saying that Germany's high rates were slowing growth in Germany, Europe and the rest of the world. 
 Horst Kohler, the state secretary in Germany's Finance Ministry, attacked Washington's criticisms, saying, according to Reuters, "It was not acceptable that the deliberation of the G-7 ministers should be burdened by one-sided and partly false public comments by a senior official."
International economists said they were surprised at how much wrath Germany was directing at Washington. "In a sense the reaction is unrepresentatively singling out U.S. criticism when the same criticism comes from many others," said William R. Cline, a senior fellow with the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "It is of course awkward for the U.S. to be billed as the party doing the criticizing because our own house has been out of order for so long. But the fact is the U.S. is expressing a sentiment widely felt in Europe and elsewhere."
In his Thursday news conference, Mr. Mulford, echoing pleas made recently by the French Government and the International Monetary Fund, criticized Germany's large budget deficit for stimulating inflation and pushing Germany's central bank to raise interest rates to extraordinarily high levels.
 
'Major Spillover Effects'
 "Germany has a large fiscal deficit and a tight monetary policy, and this is having major spillover effects for Europe," Mr. Mulford said. "It's causing high interest rates, slow growth, and contributing to unemployment."
In a reference to Washington's need to borrow from abroad to finance its nearly $400 billion deficit, Mr. Kohler said the "important thing is that Germany is financing its public deficits from its own savings."
"We will not be put in the dock," he added. Two weeks ago, American officials were praising Mr. Kohler in particular for having worked closely with them on setting up a $24 billion international aid package for Russia.
In his remarks, Mr. Mulford took pains to say he did not "want to get involved in the domestic question" of German economic policy, but he said that when he recently traveled to Europe with Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, many European officials complained to them about Germany's high interest rates.
Germany's budget deficit has mushroomed over the last two years because of the cost, estimated at hundreds of billions of dollars, of helping finance the rebuilding of eastern Germany.
"The true cost of unification has yet to really be borne by the West German people and that issue has to be addressed in the budget at some point," Mr. Mulford said. "In the meantime, the high rates transfer part of those costs to the rest of Europe and elsewhere in the form of lower growth."
Mr. Mulford said that Bonn had said that its budget deficit was running from 3 to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, but he said that when the cost of eastern Germany's state-owned privatization agency, the German state-owned railroads and the German post office were included, total public sector borrowing came to 6 percent of G.D.P.
Mr. Mulford acknowledged that the United States also has a large budget deficit, but according to Government estimates the American budget deficit represents a smaller share of G.D.P. than Germany's overall deficit.
The respected economics institute in Kiel, Germany, estimated that the deficit for Germany's federal and local governments would be 3.6 percent of G.D.P. this year, that the deficit including financing to help eastern Germany would be 4 percent of G.D.P., and that total public sector borrowing would be 5.9 percent of G.D.P.
The Bush Administration's pleas received some support today from Helmut Schlesinger, president of Germany's central bank. In a speech in Stuttgart, Mr. Schlesinger said, "The one-sided policy mix of expansionary financial policies, expansionary income policies and restrictive monetary policies will not be good for our nation over the long term."
Continuing Washington's yearlong push to get other industrial nations to focus more on growth, Mr. Mulford also urged the Japanese Government to act more aggressively to spur growth as that nation's economy weakens. In words far less tentative than those addressed to Germany, he suggested that Japan should lower interest rates and present a supplemental budget to increase public spending
Mr. Mulford voiced sympathy for Germany's central bank, saying its desire to raise rates to pull down inflation caused by a large budget deficit was understandable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Under Secretary David C. Mulford called on Germany to lower its interest rates. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; MULFORD, DAVID (UNDER SEC) HORST KOHLER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



789 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Moves Mostly Lower; Quiet Group of 7 Talks Seen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar moved mostly lower yesterday as traders predicted that few substantial developments would emerge from this weekend's meeting of finance ministers from the seven leading industrial nations.
Gold prices fell. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery was quoted at $336.90 an ounce, down $1.80. A late bid at the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold at $336.30, also off $1.80. 
 Jay Tucker, currency trader for the First Boston Corporation, said many analysts had few expectations for the scheduled Group of Seven meeting in Washington.
He said there was little interest in the dollar during the quiet session, with most of the trading occurring in European currencies or the Japanese yen.
"Any time we have a move, it is totally unrelated to the dollar," Mr. Tucker said. Many currency traders are frustrated at the dollar's inability to stage a significant advance in the face of good domestic economic news, including rebounding bank stocks, a fall in unemployment claims and an advance in the housing sector.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 134.65 Japanese yen from 134.15 yen at Thursday's close. Later, in London, it fell to 134.51 yen. The dollar closed at 134.45 in New York, down from 134.65 at Thursday's close.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7715, from $1.7650 late Thursday. In New York at closing, the pound fetched $1.7750, less expensive than $1.7660 late Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday, were: 1.6500 German marks, down from 1.6605 late Thursday; 1.5295 Swiss francs, down from 1.5400; 5.5715 French francs, down from 5.6090; 1,241.25 Italian lire, down from 1,249.50, and 1.18595 Canadian dollars, down from 1.18695.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GERMAN MARK (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (52%); 

PERSON: JAY TUCKER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



790 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Insurance Review Is Suggested Now

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
In today's low-interest-rate environment, many consumers need to review their life insurance policies, experts say. Many need to increase coverage, while others may find they are paying for coverage they no longer need.
"Thousands of people have policies buried away in safe-deposit boxes or drawers, and they just haven't addressed them or looked at them," said John Peterman, an account executive for Dean Witter & Company in New York who began evaluating insurance portfolios as a service to clients and has since developed an active business in the area. 
 The first reason for reviewing life insurance in light of today's low interest rates goes to the basic reason for having the insurance: death benefits, which provide financial security for a family or spouse in case the policyholder dies.
Joel S. Isaacson, partner in charge of personal financial planning for Clarfeld & Company, a New York certified public accountancy firm, said, "Suppose someone wanted to provide $80,000 a year for his family -- $1 million invested at 8 percent would do it," and that is the interest rate many people projected in recent years, viewing it as conservative.
"But with interest rates where they are now, people may want to re-evaluate their assumptions," he added. "They may feel more comfortable with 6 percent than 8 percent."
That would mean a policyholder would have to increase coverage to $1,333,333 to provide capital that could be invested for the same $80,000 income stream. Mr. Isaacson said 6 percent was a reasonable figure because insurance proceeds are generally invested in long-term, fixed-income securities, not in short-term holdings like Treasury bills or money market funds, which now pay less than 4 percent.
Of course, in planning how much income must be replaced if one spouse dies, families must consider a number of factors, including how much each spouse is earning, whether there would be additional child-care costs, what benefits might be available to the survivor from a corporate pension plan or Social Security, whether a home mortgage would be paid off and how long the replacement income will be needed.
Mr. Peterman told of one woman who had bought a $200,000 policy years ago, originally paying a $350 annual premium, to provide for her two children if she should die. But they had since graduated from college, so this year, facing an $1,800 premium, she dropped the policy.
On the other hand, a couple with whom he worked needed additional coverage. They owned a business and had a 10-year-old son. The husband was insured for $150,000; the wife was not insured. If either spouse died, the surviving spouse, the business and the son would all suffer financially, so all those needs had to be considered in setting up the right coverage.
Ralph M. Solomon, president of Ralph Solomon & Associates, an insurance brokerage in Boca Raton, Fla., and New York, said the varieties of insurance available today created "catacombs of confusion," so people need to review their coverage annually with an honest and scrupulous agent.
One adverse impact of low interest rates and the plunge in the real estate market, he noted, is that cash balances are earning less in whole and universal life policies. Unlike term insurance, which provides only a death benefit, those policies also provide an investment component. "Years ago no one ever heard of an insurance company reducing the dividend scale," he said, but that is happening today.
As a result, some policyholders who expected their premiums to vanish after seven or eight years, when the cash values built up enough that the dividends would pay the annual premium, are now being billed for additional premiums.
Mr. Isaacson told of one client in that situation who was so furious at his insurance agent that he was ready to give up the policy. "It was at a top-quality company, and he needed the coverage," he said. "I had to talk him into keeping it."
Mr. Peterman cited a number of reasons that a policyholder might be better off keeping a policy than switching. "The premium may be higher because the replacement policy would be based on the insured's new age," he said. "Most costs are charged against the cash values in the early years of the policy. The incontestable and suicide clauses begin anew. The old policy may have better provisions in areas such as settlement of disability benefits. The cash values in an existing policy may have reserve value."
Policyholders whose needs have changed should explore whether the present carrier is able to change a policy to fit current needs on favorable terms, he said.
Mr. Isaacson said that for some people who decide to switch policies, variable life insurance, in which cash balances can be invested in a diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds and other holdings, might be more attractive than whole or universal life. Or, he said, they may agree with the classic argument: buy term and invest the difference. The disadvantage is that the premium will rise each year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; INTEREST (MONEY) LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INSURANCE POLICIES (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); CHILD CARE (61%); ACCOUNTING (53%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



791 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 5; Financial Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: GUIDEPOST;
Checking on C.D. Lures

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
The sharp decline in personal savings rates has prompted many banks to create accounts designed to attract or keep customers. Often these accounts bear such names as "bump-up" certificates of deposit or "rising-rate" C.D.'s. They require the customer do some basic math to figure the real bottom-line return so they can make comparisons to find out what they could earn elsewhere. Bump-ups allow the depositor to change to a higher rate once during the life of the C.D. A rising-rate certificate pays progressively higher predetermined rates every three to six months over the life of the certificate. 
 Using a $10,000 investment as an example, here is what you might earn with the two types of C.D.'s over 12 months compared to a regular no-frills C.D., assuming that interest rates rise by a full percentage point in the next year.

Account	Opening	After 6	After 12	Total		Rate	Months	Months	Return	 	 	 	 	 	Rising-Rate	4.00%	4.25%	4.50%	$637.50	Bump-Up	4.00	4.00	5.00	650.00	Regular	4.25	4.25	4.25	637.50	
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, North Palm Beach, Fla.)

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



792 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: The Tides of Crime

 BODY:
Crime is going down, the New York City police report. Can it be true, after all these years of pain, cost and fear? The police and criminal justice experts respond with proper caution. History teaches that crime waves arise from profound forces not easily subject to Government control. Officials can't honestly do more than try to contain crime and minimize its damage.
But to the extent they exceed the trends elsewhere, the New York figures also suggest that government can achieve such containment, to visible and reassuring effect. There's good reason, in short, to persevere in efforts like the current expansion and redeployment of police in New York. 
 Scholars trace three crime waves in American history. The first began sometime in the 1840's and lasted until the Civil War. Homicide figures document a second surge in the early 1900's. The third wave has been going on since the mid-1960's. One reason is the baby boom, which increased the proportion of crime-prone young men.
Other reasons include immigration, domestic population transfers and economic changes that produce structural unemployment. Wars also disrupt labor markets and legitimize violence. The Vietnam War did both.
But those factors faded out in the 1980's, while crime leveled off at an elevated rate and then began a decline, so slight that it offers little reassurance. Some analysts attribute this decline mostly to "target hardening" -- more locks and alarms -- and the fear that keeps people home at night.
Why hasn't crime declined more? In part, surely because of ongoing structural unemployment and social alienation as more of the middle class abandons cities, leaving behind ever-harsher concentrations of poverty. But there is also a much more dramatic explanation: the crack epidemic.
Crack began to spread widely in the mid-80's and soon introduced millions to lives of drug abuse and crime. It produced a new generation of dealers, and a new profusion of firearms. They escalated street violence to appalling levels, much as Prohibition generated the violent gang mayhem of the 1920's and Samuel Colt's new handguns increased bloodshed in the 1840's and 50's.
The brutal surge in drug weaponry fed on itself as more youngsters felt the need to arm for self-defense. Manufacturers tooled up to supply the expanding new market, while smugglers reaped enormous profits running guns from states with lax gun laws to cities with strict ones.
In short, crime hasn't fallen back with changes in the population because of crack and guns. And while Government can't do much about the big historic tides of crime, it can do a great deal about these two specific scourges.
The Federal Government could, for example, pay for a big expansion of drug treatment, authorizing it as the first sanction for criminals found to be drug-involved. Public and private funds now support about 600,000 drug treatment slots nationwide; at least 300,000 more are needed.
There's even more the Bush Administration could do by way of urban arms control. It could restrict access to guns with uniform national purchase waiting periods. It could insist on licensing, training and other measures now blocked by Congressional capitulation to the gun lobby. And it could help localities expand and better deploy police against drugs and guns.
Americans have become resigned to crime as part of their daily routine. A serious Federal commitment to drug treatment, gun control and help for local police would not necessarily turn the tide. But it certainly could reduce crime, bloodshed and fear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDITORIALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRACK (COCAINE); COCAINE CRIME RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COCAINE (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (85%); RIOTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HISTORY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HOMICIDE (74%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); SMUGGLING (62%); IMMIGRATION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



793 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: For Many, Paying for College Only Gets Harder

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Creative Tuition Increase" (editorial, April 17) urges support for the innovative City University of New York proposal to offer a tuition-free pregraduation semester, while minimizing the impact of a tuition increase on students now enrolled. 
 With the availability of state and Federal financial aid for entering freshmen, we should be particularly concerned about economic assistance to students after they progress academically in college and exhaust their aid. The Tuition Assistance Program, for example, provides support for only eight semesters, even though most students take longer to graduate in today's difficult economy.
This reality, however, has existed since the original Free Academy (the forerunner of City College). In "City College and the Jewish Poor" (New York, 1982), Sherry Gorelick writes: "between 1848 and 1902, 30,000 students had been admitted but only 2,730 graduated" According to her, "most of the students dropped out because their parents could no longer afford to keep them in school."
The same economic pressures apply today, except for the added burden of tuition, which is especially onerous for students as they approach graduation.
We should be doing everything possible to help our students to graduate, and the CUNY idea is a step in the right direction.
 
HADASSAH GOLD
Chairman, Committee for Public Higher Education
New York, April 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY); COMMITTEE FOR PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION CITY COLLEGE (80%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY); COMMITTEE FOR PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION CITY COLLEGE (80%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TUITION TUITION FEES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); 

PERSON: GOLD, HADASSAH

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



794 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Beware of Cost Parers Playing Doctor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Prof. Jesse Lemisch tells a poignant story in "Do They Want My Wife to Die?" (Op-Ed, April 15), describing how the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has informed him it will cut back nursing care for his wife, a professor of psychology struck down by acute chronic fatigue syndrome, from the 24 hours a day her doctor says she needs to stay alive to 4 hours a day. 
 This case may only hint at what medical treatment will be like under "managed care." Masquerading as the panacea for skyrocketing health expenditures, managed care is a euphemism for managed cost, which disregards patient care, as Professor Lemisch so eloquently describes.
While no one can deny that we must find some way to make fiscally sound decisions about the cost and practice of health care, managed care companies have encroached on medical decision making, forcing physicians to struggle with endless numbers of "reviewers" (most of whom have not gone to medical school) to justify what more than 20 years of education has taught them is necessary in order to provide quality treatment for their patients.
In addition, an unsuspecting public often learns that health insurance coverage is being switched abruptly to a managed-care format with only the very minimum of notification, explanation or opportunity to choose an alternative.
This happened to New York State employees when the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company subcontracted all mental-health services to a managed-care company called American Psych Management on Feb. 1.
To have non-M.D.'s determining "medical necessity" makes a mockery of a physician's training. Worse, it jeopardizes the seriously ill, who often lack the resources and stamina to fight back. Surely, the medical profession, insurers and government officials can find more creative economic solutions to spiraling health-care costs that will not expend patient lives.
 
CAROL A. BERNSTEIN, M.D.
Asst. Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University
New York, April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (94%); VALUEOPTIONS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); NURSES & NURSING (77%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (57%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, CAROL A (DR) JESSE LEMISCH (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1992



795 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2594 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
In the Huxtable World, Parents Knew Best

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
This week, after eight years of speCtacular ratings and spectacular profits, Bill Cosby will finish up what he had to say on "The Cosby Show."
The series was the most-watched show of the last decade, the comedy seen by more people than any other in television history, the show that resurrected the sitcom as television's most popular genre and the first to portray mainstream black middle-class life. NBC will broadcast its 198th and final episode Thursday night at 8. Like the other 197, the hourlong special will emphasize family values, family togetherness and family pride.
"Truthfully, I don't have anything left to say," Mr. Cosby said. "That may be why it's not a sad, sad moment. I'm satisfied." 
 In large measure, his satisfaction comes from knowing that the series, beyond making Mr. Cosby one of the best-liked and wealthiest entertainers in America, did what he set out to do: it restored the television image of the parent as loving authority figure, and it gave viewers, black and white, an unwaveringly positive look at family life, as lived in a home headed by two professional parents who happened to be black.
"It was a breakthrough in presenting a family with two parents working," said Ellen Galinsky, co-president of the Families and Work Institute, a Manhattan-based research organization. "It was a very moving testament to family life."
The series capitalized on Mr. Cosby's comedic talent, especially his winning way with children. But "Cosby" also emerged at an opportune moment. When it first appeared, in 1984, television was barren of its traditional staple: great situation comedy. Viewers streamed to "Cosby" because they could find laughs there every week. But the series also benefited from speaking to an audience suddenly eager to embrace the joys of parenthood. The baby-boom generation, having moved through "Leave It to Beaver," "My Three Sons," "Mary Tyler Moore," "M*A*S*H" and "Saturday Night Live," began changing diapers, and its focus. As the country's most populous generation began raising its own children, "The Cosby Show" captured them by illustrating nothing more than the day-to-day events of family life.
Earlier this spring, on the day before the taping of the final episode of "The Cosby Show," Mr. Cosby relaxed on the plush couch in his comfortable dressing room at the Kaufman-Astoria Studios in Queens, where the show was produced for the last five years. Soft piano jazz riffled from hidden speakers.
Mr. Cosby, who is 54 years old, is now among the most powerful figures in show business; he earns a portion of the show's syndication revenues -- so far more than $600 million. He is also involved in the production of the NBC spinoff comedy, "A Different World," which has been a top series for the last five years.
"Cosby" finished the official television season in 17th place in the Nielsen ratings. That's a long fall from being the unchallenged No. 1 show, which "Cosby" was from 1985 through 1989.
But the descent is not so disturbing that Mr. Cosby can't joke about it. During the last season, a sign on his dressing-room door read: "This show is no longer No. 1, so don't come knockin' on this door for nothin'."
He is even unruffled by "The Simpsons," which exacerbated his show's slide from the top when the Fox network put it up against "Cosby." For one thing, he said, the attention surrounding the battle between the two series focused attention on "Cosby" again. And then there was the contrast between his show and "The Simpsons," with its oafish father Homer and problem child Bart.
"When Bart first came out," he recalled, "USA Today had a story with somebody who said, 'I don't want to watch Cosby because I get a headache because I learn too much.' And I said, 'Bravo.' I know that I've lost that person, but by the same token obviously that person has gotten the message."
 
Message in a Sitcom
Parenthood Is No Joke
 "Cosby," Mr. Cosby said, was unashamedly about presenting messages as much as it was about comedy. His emphasis on education and achievement is apparent from his own decision to pursue a doctorate in education, which he earned from the University of Massachusetts in 1976. (He listed himself as William H. Cosby Jr., Ed.D., in the show's credits.) He conferred regularly about story lines and themes with his friend Alvin Poussaint, a Harvard psychiatrist who is listed in the credits as production consultant.
At the show's height, even a rival network's research department reported that millions of viewers watched "The Cosby Show" to get advice about how to be good parents. That was precisely Mr. Cosby's intention when he decided to do the series. "I was watching television back then," he said, "and I noticed the children were brighter than the parents. And the laughs were coming because the parents really weren't parenting. They had misconstrued any self-help book they'd read."
Mr. Cosby took his own assignment of presenting a different image of parenthood so seriously, he said, that he sometimes deliberately cut out lines and situations that he was sure would have made the show funnier. "Dr. Poussaint and I would get together and talk about the alternatives we wanted people to consider. What is your life about once you become a parent? It's about that kid. And what's it about as you grow older? It's about the education you gave or you didn't give."
From the beginning, what "Cosby" was really about was Bill Cosby's own family, and his own commitment to the values of education and respect among family members.
Mr. Cosby acknowledged that every element of the series reflected his personal vision. Everything was shaped by his input and his taste, down to the set, which he designed himself, covering the walls with copies of paintings by black artists in his own collection.
Like the Huxtables, Mr. Cosby and his wife, Camille, have four daughters and a son, now ranging in age from 16 to 27. The Cosbys have a home in Massachusetts and a town house in Manhattan. The show's fictional family, the Huxtables, live in a town house in Brooklyn Heights. When the show first began, the Huxtables had only four children, but within a few weeks Mr. Cosby had introduced an eldest daughter so the structure of the family would conform exactly to his own.
Sometimes the reference points were not exact between the real family and the television version. But in at least one case, what happened to the Huxtables was a virtual mirror image of events in the Cosby house. The final show, which centers on Theo Huxtable's graduation from New York University, recalls -- in a flashback featuring a boyish Malcolm-Jamal Warner as Theo and a far thinner and younger-looking Cosby -- a scene from the show's opening episode. In that show, Theo, the middle child and only son, tells his father, the successful obstetrician, about his lackluster grades and declares that the pressure to succeed is too much. He tells his father he would much prefer just to be like "regular people."
It was a defining moment for the series. Rather than respond in the then-popular fashion of the all-accepting, cowed parent, Cliff Huxtable tells his son how ridiculous he sounds.
In real life, the incident happened late one night. Mr. Cosby's son, Ennis, was then about 13. "It bothered me that Ennis was not doing his schoolwork," Mr. Cosby said. "I sat him down and said we're going to talk, and I want you to say whatever is on your mind. We talked until 4:30 in the morning. And he said he wanted to be regular people. He didn't want the pressure of studying."
Ennis's struggles with learning took the same course viewers saw Theo's take. "We go ahead, four years later, and find out, after great frustration -- no physical violence, but great frustration -- that after being tested, he is, in fact, dyslexic."
In both life and the series, the parents regarded the revelation as cause for celebration. Ennis/Theo went to a special school, learned the skills needed to cope with his learning difference and effectively transformed his life.
In the final episode, the proud father can't get enough seats for Theo's graduation. In real life, the proud father relates the story of Ennis's academic triumph: "He goes to college, moves from a 2.3 average to a 2.7. He goes back to the learning school for the summer. Now he's in his major, psychology, and he moves it up to a 3.6. And this semester, 3.8 -- for sure!"
 
 
The Idealization Issue
Were the Huxtables Too Perfect?
 Perhaps because the series was so close to home for Mr. Cosby, revisionist comments from some newspaper and magazine critics, after initial praise, cut especially deep. Beyond the complaints about heavy-handed message-mongering, the show was attacked for presenting an unrealistically idealized portrait of family life, particularly black family life, because the parents were too well off, too smart, too "perfect."
Mr. Cosby said the point was to present a family whose behavior offered a positive alternative to other, harsher contemporary images available on television and elsewhere. "It would have been wonderful if I had been able to bring on children in the family who had drug problems and make that funny," he said, "or had a daughter get pregnant out of wedlock and make that funny, or have had Dr. Huxtable having two or three nurses on the side and make adultery funny. But I just could not deal with the humor in those situations."
The enormous popularity of the series, and its impact on television, more than compensated for any criticism.
"Absolutely, the family was put in a better light," he said. "I think 'Family Ties' watched us and made some changes. 'Growing Pains' and other shows came right off us. The other important thing was it helped take off the .357 magnum people and brought us 'L.A. Law' instead. It took off black actors who were forced to play pimps and thugs and black females who were forced to play hookers and rape victims."
Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of African-American Studies at Harvard, said that "The Cosby Show" profoundly changed the television image of black Americans. "If you watched television before 'Cosby,' " he said, "you'd think that we talk about being black and poor all day long. What he did was simply present people as black; he didn't have to claim it for them."
The show made it possible, Mr. Cosby suggested, for black performers to play professionals like the Huxtables on other television shows, though he said it was hard at first to turn around some of the expectations of producers, who still wanted black actors to "roll their eyes and sound jive." The actors, he said, kept saying, "No, my mother and father went to college.' "
 
A Way With Children
The Proof Is In the Jell-O
 Mr. Cosby's own father, William Sr., attended college, in pharmacology, but dropped out because he could not afford it. He became a merchant seaman and he and his wife, Anna, raised their three boys in Philadelphia amid a cast of colorful street characters. One, recreated by Mr. Cosby as Fat Albert, became the center of many of his monologues. Beginning in 1972, he was also the main character in one of Saturday morning's biggest successes for more than a decade, "Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids" on CBS. Mr. Cosby's most successful work, in fact, has always been based on his personal life. He remains one of the leading stand-up comedians in America; his 24 comedy albums have sold more copies than any other comedian's.
In his monologues, Mr. Cosby started out reminiscing about his childhood and his days as an athlete at Temple University. Later he shifted his attention to the idiosyncrasies of his family life, developing comic takes on everything from a trip to the dentist to family vacations. More recently, he has expanded his range, taking seriocomic looks at the aging process and the sometimes unhappy consequences of raising children of wealth.
Along the way he developed a career in television. In the 1960's, with the NBC series "I Spy," Mr. Cosby became the first black actor to star in a television drama, and won three Emmy Awards for his role as Alexander Scott. But his television career hit several valleys before peaking in "The Cosby Show." A 1970 situation comedy for NBC, "The Bill Cosby Show," in which he played a high school gym teacher, was gone after two seasons. Two attempts at variety series, the first for CBS in 1972 and the second for ABC in 1976, disappeared quickly.
He has starred in a few films, with only occasional success. "Uptown Saturday Night" (1974) was his biggest box-office draw; his latest efforts, "Leonard Part 6" (1987) and "Ghost Dad" (1990), were undisputed and undistinguished duds.
Mr. Cosby's appeal to children never waned, however. As part of his commitment to fostering education, he appeared regularly on the PBS reading series "The Electric Company," in the 1970's.
But nothing captured his irresistibility to children better than his series of commercials for Jell-O and Jell-O Pudding, which feature Mr. Cosby at play with utterly enchanted toddlers.
 
So Long, Cliff
Life After 'Cosby'
 "The Cosby Show" has made it possible for Bill Cosby to do almost anything he wants with the rest of his life. He has turned some of his millions back into causes he believes in, primarily education. In 1988, he and Camille donated $20 million to Spelman College in Atlanta, the biggest single contribution ever made to a black college.
In the fall, he will star in a syndicated version of the old Groucho Marx game show "You Bet Your Life." He will also be producing what looks like the continuation of the Ennis story: a new series in which Malcolm-Jamal Warner plays a teacher in a special school. "Ennis," his father said, "is great with kids. He's even more of a Pied Piper than I am."
Still, nothing Bill Cosby does for the rest of his life is likely to approach the impact of "The Cosby Show" on television, or on the star himself.
"Because of that Thursday night every week for eight years," he said, "many people, not all, but many people love Bill Cosby. And there's a human being that I owe them every time I see them. And that is a human being that will not let them down.
"And it's not a bad challenge. I don't have to deliver any babies. I just have to live a good, clean life and make good sense."
 
 
 
OPENING THE DOOR TO A BLACK WORLD
 All television comedies with predominantly black casts can be categorized as "B.C. and A.C. -- Before 'Cosby' and After 'Cosby,' " says Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of African-American studies at Harvard.
Earlier black sitcoms, he says, were typified by the slapstick style of "Sanford and Son." But Mr. Cosby's series, he continues, "has a sense of black history and the continuity of the black family." Series that have been broadcast since "Cosby" began in 1984 have shown a wide range of black characters, from the nerdy Urkel of "Family Matters" to the owner and patrons of a New Orleans restaurant in "Frank's Place."
"The brilliant thing Cosby did," said Mr. Gates, "was to put race and economic issues on the back burner so we could see a black family dealing with all the things black people deal with the same as all other people. It was the first time most of us as black people have felt a sense of identity with and resemblance to the kind of values we have in common, our relationships with our parents and our siblings."
Here are some of the television images of black people before and after "The Cosby Show."

GRAPHIC: Photos:
BEFORE COSBY
"Sanford and Son" (1972-1977; NBC) -- featured Redd Foxx as a widowed, grizzled Los Angeles junk dealer and Demond Wilson as his restless son who dreamed of a better life. Mr. Foxx used the Norman Lear series as a showcase for broad slapstick humor.
 
"Good Times" (1974-1979; CBS) -- featured Jimmie Walker as the jive-talking son in a poor Chicago family, with Esther Rolle as the mother and John Amos as the often unemployed father. The series was a spinoff of "Maude," in which Ms. Rolle played the maid.
 
"The Jeffersons" (1975-1985; CBS), with Isabel Sanford as a long-suffering wife and Sherman Hemsley as a sputtering bigot, began as a spinoff of "All in the Family." The premise: cleaning-store owner makes good and moves to Upper East Side of Manhattan.
 
"The Cosby Show" (1984-1992; NBC), with Bill Cosby, right, and Malcolm-Jamal Warner (in a scene from the final episode), was the first series to feature an established middle-class family who just happened to be black.
 
AFTER COSBY
"Frank's Place" (1987-1988; CBS), with Tim Reid, left, and Tony Burton, lasted just one season but was a favorite among critics. It starred Mr. Reid as a Boston professor who inherited a New Orleans restaurant and, through it, discovered his cultural heritage.
 
"Family Matters" (1989-present; ABC), starring Reginald VelJohnson and JoMarie Payton-France, is about a solid working-class family in Chicago. Jaleel White plays the neighbor Steve Urkel, a bespectacled smarty-pants -- an unusual role for a black actor.
 
"Roc" (1991-present; Fox), starring Charles Dutton as a sanitation worker, is, like "The Cosby Show," about several generations in a black family. The critically acclaimed series features a cast largely drawn from productions of August Wilson's Broadway plays. (pg. 33)
 
Bill Cosby on the set of "The Cosby Show," whose final episode will be broadcast on Thursday. (Howard L. Bingham)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: COSBY SHOW, THE (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (90%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION FAMILY (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); 

PERSON: COSBY, BILL; CARTER, BILL BILL COSBY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



796 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
On the Road With Your Children's Children

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
TRAVEL with your children's children, the best fun in the world, involves a lot of learning by doing, but novices can use some rules to keep the project on the rails.
Some guidelines derive from folklore: Where to find a toilet on Fifth Avenue, for example. Others appear in books and leaflets as grandparent-grandchild travel increases, and it is booming. Helena T. Koenig, a travel agent in Chevy Chase, Md., is offering 15 high-end tours in her sixth season of Grandtravel, and she says business has doubled every year since she began, although she expects growth to plateau in the recession. 
 Part of the growth stems from divorce patterns. Mrs. Koenig said that most of the children on her trips traveled with only one grandparent, typically a grandmother, but that most of them had eight grandparents rather than four. The growth is also driven by the increase in two-job families where parents have difficulty getting vacations at the same time, not to mention meeting the cost. In this situation, grandparents step in.
 
Trial Runs at Home
 When the child is ready to spend an overnight away from home, greenhorn grandparents might start with a whole day and night visit at their house. "Don't forget, the day does not end at 4," Bubbles Fisher, grandmother of 10 and author of "New York City With Kids" counsels. The visit will prepare both of you for life in another city: What to eat when, how many stories at bedtime, what television shows are acceptable.
When the relationship is ready for a trip, preparation should involve the child. Many grandparents promise a trip to each child at a particular age or occasion, and let the child select from a list: only two choices for a young child, more for an older one. Ms. Fisher's oldest grandchild, now at Amherst, selected Disney World at the age of 3, but this year's grandchild, from California, shunned such familiar fare and chose Washington. One grandparent, one grandchild on a trip is a good rule of thumb for safety.
Grandtravel publishes a free leaflet, "Travel Hints," covering its trips, but the principles are broader. Books, videos and magazines about the destination may be available at school or the library. Teachers may suggest projects for the children to share with the class later -- collecting coins or stamps. A notebook, sketchbook or scrapbook should be begun before the trip. I carry snubnosed scissors, sticky tape and lots of pencils. A travel agent will provide an itinerary and brochures and these can start the diary.
Learning what's going on in another city involves some effort close to departure time: phone calls to convention or visitor bureaus, and reading the city's newspapers to check for good hotel prices and coming events.
A hotel with a pool is a plus, but most hotels do not provide lifeguards, one reason that one grandparent for each child is a rational rule. When she makes a reservation, Ms. Fisher also asks the hotel to send a copy of the room service menu.
It is a great help if a museum you visit has a cafeteria. If the guidebooks do not say, call ahead. And be specific about the busiest times. Sarabeth's restaurant at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, for example, is so popular on Sunday that there may be a half-hour wait, which rules it out for children.
Preparing for a museum trip does not mean a vague announcement, "We're going to a museum," but telling the child about the goal of the trip: to see Calder's Circus at the Whitney, for example, or the Pacific locomotive at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington or the helicopter at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Children's museums are easier to visit because almost everything can be touched, but the age needs to be gauged carefully; 10-year-olds roll their eyes at tiny tables with thick crayons. A museum visit should not be scheduled for longer than an hour and opening time often avoids crowds, the nemesis of children.
Selecting souvenirs tests grandparents. Mrs. Koenig, who limits each of her trips to 25 participants and transports them in 48-passenger buses, thinks she ought to get a second bus for all the stuff that is bought. Children are encouraged to buy for children left behind, she said. Presents and souvenirs have to be packed, so I limit purchases to postcards and small books, but in any case, set the ground rules before you go into a museum or gift shop.
 
Tour Companies
 Grandtravel accepts children aged 7 to 17 for trips, often dividing them into one trip for 7 to 11's and another for 12 to 17's. The most popular age range is 10 to 15, Mrs. Koenig says, and this is probably the age when the range of interests best matches the grandparents.' The land arrangements for her trips range upward from $2,290 a person.
In her first year, she offered Washington, a safari in Kenya and a tour of the Southwest, and about six people signed up for each trip. This year, she listed 16 tours, but is reluctantly dropping the Kenya trip, the second time she has had to do this, because the State Department has issued an advisory urging caution in traveling to that country. The other international trips include castles of England and Scotland, barging in the Netherlands and Belgium, and Australia. Domestically, Washington, Maine, New York, New England, the Southwest, the West, Hawaii and Alaska are offered.
Grandtravel will send its 60-page catalogue or its tips leaflet free: Grandtravel, 6900 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 706, Chevy Chase, Md. 20815, (800) 247-7651 or (301) 986-0790.
Adventure Express, 650 Fifth Avenue, San Francisco, Calif. 94107, (800) 872-7225, is in its sixth year of offering adult-child programs called Rascals in Paradise, with 30 trips suitable for adults and children. Such choices as the Canadian Rockies bicycle trip are probably better suited to parents than grandparents, but the "exotic classroom" offerings, including Australia and the Galapagos Islands, fit the grandparent category. The company offers a number of Caribbean all-inclusive resort packages, modified with early meals for children and sitter services. As a sample of prices, a New Zealand trip for four people, two adults and two children, without air fare, would be $8,524 with meals and sightseeing; seven nights in Belize, meals not included, $1,505.
Vista Tours of Frontier Travel & Tours, 1923 North Carson Street, Carson City, Nev. 89701, (800) 648-0912, is offering three modest grandparent tours this summer, with a number of departure dates: South Dakota, New England and Reno, Nev. According to Sylvia Ruh, the grandparent tours have increased in popularity since they started in the mid-80's. Four nights in Reno, with a trip to Lake Tahoe and the Ponderosa Ranch in Virginia City, Nev., costs $485 for an adult in double occupancy and $412 for a child as the third in the room. If the adult uses the room with a child only, there is a $20 supplement.
The American Association of Retired Persons, (800) 927-0111, offers two Disney packages for grandparents: Disney World in Orlando, and Euro Disney outside Paris. A four-night Disney World stay at the Disney Inn or Disney's Village Resort, with a pass to all attractions, is $581 a person, with two in a room. If there are two adults and a child in the room, the child's cost is $250.
Ms. Fisher's "Frommer's Family Travel Guide, New York City With Kids" (Prentice Hall, $18), which began life as "The Candy Apple" in 1987, is really a grandparent's book, done from the standpoint of a resident who is welcoming young people to New York rather than as a parent arriving in a strange city. The author provides only a small list of hotels. But her chapters on preparing and finding out what's going on apply for any city.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GRANDPARENTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; NYTRAVEL GRANDCHILDREN (92%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (79%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); FOLKLORE (72%); HOTEL AMENITIES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY HELENA T KOENIG (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



797 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Bankruptcy;
Problems With Unit Owners

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
AN explosion in personal bankruptcies is undermining the financial safeguards built into the basic documents that govern co-ops and condominums.
The normal expectation is that anyone who falls behind in paying monthly maintenance fees or common charges can be speedily forced out. Also, that these fees can eventually be collected through legal action against the delinquent resident. 
 In a co-op, for example, the corporation normally has the right to seek a speedy eviction when shareholders default on their lease by failing to pay their share of the building's upkeep. Those unpaid fees then become a priority lien on the apartment, payable out of the proceeds of the subsequent forced sale -- or by the incoming buyers before they are permitted to take title.
A delinquent unit owner in a condominum will similarly forfeit the right to remain. The association can thus commence foreclosure proceedings. However, any unpaid charges may not carry the same priority standing as in a co-op and might never be fully recouped.
Nevertheless, in both instances, the governing body can normally pry some money loose from the recalcitrant residents. In addition, it can force the residents out and get the apartment occupied by somebody who will pay in a timely fashion.
Personal bankruptcy interferes with all of this by protecting the occupants' right to remain in the apartment until the disposition of all debts is sorted out by the courts. "And this can sometimes take six months or more," said Richard Liebman, a lawyer in Rockville Centre, L.I., who specializes in bankruptcies.
No wonder personal bankruptcy strikes all the other residents as such an outrage. "You can imagine how we feel," said a unit owner in the Bronx, "when we see this individual driving out of the building in a brand-new car and carrying shopping bags from some of the more stylish shops in Manhattan."
The reason it occurs, say lawyers, is that bankruptcy laws override virtually all established collection remedies. The problem is compounded because the unit is normally the debtor's primary residence. And in many states a person's home carries even stronger protection against seizure. In New York, for instance, the court must decide.
Yet this doesn't mean the association or corporation has been left totally defenseless, although "too many boards still think their hands are completely tied," said Mr. Liebman.
Individuals who file for bankruptcy have the option of doing so under one of three sections of the code -- Chapter 7, 11 or 13. Under Chapter 7, the most common, every asset is supposed to be liquidated as soon as possible to pay creditors.
But bitterness soon arises because some debts, such as the monthly arrears, may never be paid or only paid at a few cents on the dollar. Moreover, the condominium or co-op loses the right to sue the debtor for the remainder.
Chapter 11 and Chapter 13 assume the debtor will be able to pay at least some bills if allowed more time. Thus payments schedules are set up. This means that some money should start to trickle in. If it doesn't, questions should be raised with the court.
Lawyers warn, however, that in no instance can any financial obligation incurred after the bankruptcy filing, such as current and future monthly charges, be included in the restructuring. These debts remain due and payable in full, noted Michael D. Brofman, a lawyer in East Meadow, L.I., who also specializes in bankruptcies.
Thus, if a co-op or condominium doesn't begin receiving current charges on a regular basis the association or corporation should swiftly petition the court to compel payment. This must be done because as soon as the debtor falls behind in current obligations the court can dismiss the bankruptcy. If it does, the debtor immediately loses protection and relief from all prior debts -- a frightening prospect. "It works every time," said Michael L. Konig, a lawyer in Woodbridge, N.J, who has handled these workouts.
A CO-OP is in a stronger position than a condominium. If current payments are not made, the court may hold that the shareholders have lost their occupancy rights even during the bankruptcy workout. This allows the co-op to proceed with an eviction because the shareholders have only a tenant's rights, not the real property rights of a condo owner. "It's a form of relief very few co-ops realize they have," Mr. Konig.
Nevertheless, the primary concern should still center on the collection of the arrears and the debtor's ability to pay current and future charges.
Thus these lawyers recommend that as soon as any resident files for bankruptcy under any chapter of the code the association or the corporation petition the court to "lift the stay." This means allowing the disposition of the unit to be separated from all other debts being sorted out in the bankruptcy.
THIS would permit any pending foreclosure action frozen by the filing to proceed. In a co-op the same concession would apply to an eviction. The privilege is most often granted when outstanding debts against the unit -- such as mortgage and liens -- are so large that there would be nothing left to parcel out to other creditors.
Mr. Liebman said that the bank holding the mortgage on the unit can normally be counted on to join the association in seeking to liff the stay, since it also has much to gain from the speedy removal of the occupant and a quick foreclosure sale of the unit.
Far more aggravating delays and arrears tend to pile up when the debtor has substantial equity in the unit. In those instances, said Mr. Brofman, the court rarely lifts the stay because the trustee can normally get a better price at a private sale than can be realized at a foreclosure auction. And as he has a fiduciary duty to help satisfy the outstanding claims of all other creditors, he must squeeze the last penny out of a sale.
If this happens, the lawyers say, the condo or co-op should keep the pressure on the court's trustee to sell the unit quickly, anyhow. But as a practical matter this is rarely done, they say, because arrangements get bogged down with many other issues.
Thus at times it may even be necessary to sue the trustee, said Mr. Liebman. "You must keep making a lot of noise," he said.
But what about those arrears? In a condo the arrears cannot be passed along to the new buyer. Nor can the bankrupt debtor still be held personally responsible (except in a Chapter 13 filing).
By contrast, a co-op can usually recoup its losses because it can refuse to issue new shares until the arrears are paid by someone -- a technique that normally compels any incoming buyer (or the bank taking title after a foreclosure) to pay for the sale to be completed. This option is not available to a condominium because stricter rules govern the disposition of real property.
Finally, there are two regional experiences worth noting. Consider first the approach of Marilyn Mieszkuc, a lawyer in Houston who handled a number of bankruptcies on behalf condominiums caught in the Texas recession of the mid-80's. It became popular in that state, she said, for a condominium association to file aggressively to lift the stay and proceed with its own foreclosure because the banks holding the mortgages on the unit were refusing to intervene or join in the process.
The banks, she said, didn't want to risk being left owning these units in a bad market as they would be responsible for common charges until a buyer could be found.
So the condominiums themselves initiated the foreclosures, buying back the units at nominal sums since no other buyers were coming forward. They would then rent them out pending a revival of the market. The rent was used to cover current charges and pay off arrears. "We did very well," recalled Ms. Mieszkuc.
BOARDS should be aware of two recent court decisions that affect their rights. In Cohen v. North Park Parkside Condominium Association, the Federal Bankruptcy Court in San Dieg ruled in January, 1991, that Steven and Sheri Cohen, who had filed under Chapter 7, could not be held responsible for common charges while they remained in residence because such charges constituted a financial obligation entered into prior to the bankruptcy.
The ruling followed a similar decision by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago in 1990 -- a case that pitted William and Joyce Rosteck against the Old Willow Falls Condominum Association.
"The rulings mean that, in future, boards must be even more vigilant about collecting arrears before a bankruptcy is filed," said James P. Lingl, a lawyer in Camarillo, Calif.
He had argued against such a ruling in the Cohen case on behalf of the Community Associations Institute, the national network of leaders in the community ownership field based in Alexandria, Va.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); EVICTION (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (58%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE MICHAEL L KONIG (61%); RICHARD LIEBMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



798 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Home Businesses Run Afoul of Zoning

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
THE rising use of computers and facsimile machines is giving a new impetus to challenges to restrictive zoning rules that seek homeowners from conducting business from their residences.
In the metropolitan area, some communities are responding by re-evaluating their zoning regulations. But in others they are holding firm, taking the position that an in-home business may generate too much traffic or otherwise disturb the residential character that the zoning bylaws were designed to protect. 
 "We now have archaic businesses that were applicable in the 1920's, such as milliners, still on the books," said Louis Goodman, who supervises the building inspectors and administers the building code in New Rochelle, N.Y.
"Obviously, it needs to be updated to better reflect the times."
His city is the setting for a legal dispute that highlights the evolving nature of home employment and its impact on zoning issues. In drawing the ever-finer line, New Rochelle has not been willing to include "management consultants" as a legitimate occupation in a residential district.
Last February, the city refused to allow Evelyne Simon to run her management consulting business from her home, saying that it was not one of the customary professions allowed in the home-occupation ordinance. Under 1921 zoning, which was revised in 1955, the only businesses allowed include the offices of architects, artists and teachers, among others, or a "similar professional person."
Ms. Simon's lawyer, Alan H. Rothschild, contended before the city's zoning board of appeals that a management consultant should qualify as a "similar professional person" under the law, and that many other professions also not listed in the code were being practiced all over the city.
In most cases, such businesses can operate in quiet rebellion against the zoning laws because nobody knows the businesses are there. In Mrs. Simon's case, 16 neighbors petitioned against the business use. They objected to what they said was increased traffic and excessive parking.
"ONCE we find out about a business, my job is to adhere to the literal words of the ordinance," said Mr. Goodman. "I can't see a connection between a management consultant and the other businesses that are listed."
Late last month, the Zoning Board of Appeals upheld Mr. Goodman's position. Mr. Rothschild said he would appeal the decision to the New York State Supreme Court in White Plains.
Even with the court victory, Mr. Goodman concedes that the city's home-occupation code needs some updating, and a comprehensive rezoning package, which includes a revised home-occupation ordinance, is now before the City Council.
The nearby Village of Scarsdale is also considering revising its home-occupation ordinance, which was adopted in 1976. The impetus for the change came from a case brought before the village last May. A psychiatrist, who had been operating a home practice for 20 years, was informed he was in violation of the zoning law when a new neighbor complained about parking on the street by his patients.
The zoning board ruled that a home business could operate only on a part-time basis. The zoning rules also stipulate that a business may take up no more than 250 square feet in a house and that there must be designated parking for visiting clients.
THE city ordered the doctor to stop using his waiting room, since that enlarged the work space beyond allowable limits. He was also required to take up a sidewalk that ran from his office to the street and replace it with one that went from his office to a designated parking area at the side of the house.
The village did not insist on the requirement that home businesses be part-time, pending a review of the ordinance.
"It's a tradition that a home office be only a part-time business, but we're well aware that a whole lot of people are operating full time in the village," said Peter Van de Water, village planner. "Technology has gotten to the point with computers, faxes and modems that a shift to the home occupation is inevitable. It's time to draft some new rules."
Downturns in the economy are said to contribute to the growth in home-based businesses, estimated by the American Home Business Association to number 14 million across the country.
SEVERAL communities in the metropolitan region have already revised their home-occupation ordinances, including Bridgewater Township, N.J., in 1987 and Woodstock, N.Y., in 1989. And many others are considering doing so.
When Woodstock changed its ordinance, it was primarily in response to an outcry from its art community. "A lot of artists were complaining that they couldn't afford to remain in the community if they weren't allowed to have a work space," said John Ludwig, chairman of the planning board. Woodstock now allows artists to conduct their work in an accessory building, previously prohibited under the old code.
Dennis M. Doyle, senior planner for Ulster County's Department of Planning, hopes that Woodstock will serve as an example for changing ordinances throughout the county. Of particular concern to Mr. Doyle is removal of the "professional bias now found in many laws," he said.
"Blue-collar businesses could have just as small an impact on their neighbors and be equally as important to the economic viability of the homeowner," he said.
One particularly contentious area of home-business law is in the area of child care. In many places, if a mother takes in a few extra children to watch during the day, she is in violation of the law. Local officials are often reluctant to crack down in such cases, since child care serves such a vital need in the community.
The chief reason for limiting the types of businesses allowed in the home is to insure the preservation of a neighborhood's residential character and thereby maintain property values. As extra insurance, most ordinances also have strict rules about the location and size of outside signs, the number of employees, outside storage, and the amount of acceptable traffic and noise.
Many planning consultants believe that it is unnecessary and unfair to limit home occupations to certain professions. "Instead of listing so-called customary uses, like doctors and lawyers, why not just establish standards for noise and traffic and other nuisances," said Daniel Shuster, president of Shuster Associate Planning and Zoning Consultants, in Stone Ridge in Ulster County. "If a home business isn't bothering anybody, who cares if it's customary?"
Taking a different approach to the problem is New York City, the municipality with the largest number of home businesses in the country, according to the American Home Business Association. Technically the only types of businesses allowed include such professions as doctors, lawyers and other "professional offices."
Specifically, prohibited are offices in the home for public relations and advertising agencies, interior decorators and stockbrokers, although city officials acknowledge that many such businesses probably operate all over the city. At the moment, there are no plans to adjust the zoning to reflect that reality.
"Sometimes if you start getting into definitions, you create more problems," said Michael Parley, president of Development Consulting Services Inc., who specializes in consultation on New York City zoning regulations. "The best approach is often a case-by-case basis, and if nobody brings a case, there's no problem. These laws are designed to resolve problems. It's often not in the best interest of the city to make everybody adhere to them."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (59%); ZONING BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOME BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (59%); ZONING BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); PETITIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



799 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	NATIONAL HOUSING TRENDS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	(In thousands of units, seasonally adjusted annual rates)	 	 	 	 		Feb. 92	Feb. 91	Change	Starts	1,283	1,008	+27.3%	Completions	1,051	1,097	- 4.1%	Sales	613	490	+25.1%	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Source: Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.94	9.00	9.75	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.18	6.20	7.41	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.80	8.85	9.58	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.91	5.98	7.31	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.82	8.93	9.58	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.06	6.16	7.20	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.06	9.10	9.95	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.56	6.59	7.70	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	4.14	4.25	6.26	National Mortgage Contract Rate	8.15	8.15	9.26	
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); TRENDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CENSUS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992



800 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 24; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Paintings of America And Photos of Mexico

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

 BODY:
WITH paintings, as with individuals, the face can be familiar but not the name. This is very much the situation now in the Benton Museum, at the University of Connecticut in Storrs.
The current show, which was organized by Hildy Cummings, the museum's curator of education, and Helen Fusscas, a former art dealer, includes 48 painters. None of them are superstars, although some enjoyed fame in their own time and have made a comeback, while others have remained in limbo. But still, the revisionist spirit behind the show is not the kind that revives reputations better left for dead. The curators have chosen artists who, in Mrs. Cummings's words, "did not change the course of American art but whose talent and vision greatly enriched it." 
 In confining themselves to painters of quality (dread word), the curators have come up with work that often seems more recognizable than it is. Thus, for a split second, it is possible to see an Asher B. Durand in Nelson Augustus Moore's "The Path Home" (1892); from across the room, Gilbert Munger's "Scene in the Wasatch Mountains" could be a Bierstadt study. Whether it's a matter of influence or Zeitgeist, the effect can be quite disconcerting.
To make matters more complicated, the curators have included works by artists who really are familiar. Ammi Phillips's portrait of a boy is an example: those brown eyes could be no one else's. (Did the artist ever paint a subject with blue eyes?)
The show's labels are excellent, their details always germane and sometimes gossipy. That for the Phillips notes that the boy, Frederick Gale, wears a "skeleton suit," a "new fashion for boys in 1815," and that the portrait probably celebrated the "breeching" rite, whereby 7-year-old boys were promoted from baby clothes. It also points out that the colossal hat carried by the child denotes his high social status.
Other noteworthy figures include John Haberle, of New Haven, with a circa 1890 trompe l'oeil, and John Ferguson Weir, brother to J. Alden and founder of the Yale Art School, with a small scene of a blacksmith preparing to shoe an ox. Samuel F. B. Morse is represented by a lovely little head of a fashionable Federal lady that is set in a spectacular rococo frame. Two still lifes -- of peonies and strawberries, respectively -- epitomize Charles Ethan Porter, a black painter working in Hartford who was returned to circulation several years ago. The prodigious portraitist Daniel Huntington is no stranger either, although he is represented here by a small sickbed scene, while David Johnson, celebrated for his landscape drawings, is here with a painting of Greenwich rocks beside a glassy sea.
Nevertheless, many of the figures are new -- to me at least. They include Samuel Broadbent, Robert Brandegee, Thomas Henry Hope, Frederick Stiles Jewett and Mary Bidwell. Broadbent arrived in Rocky Hill from England, in 1861, at the age of 38, to practice both medicine and portraiture. His medical performance remains obscure, but his "Mrs. Riley Whitney" is a beauty who looks sideways at the viewer, her piercing eyes the exact same brown as the bangs escaping from her white gophered bonnet. Normally, the canvas hangs at the Winchester Historical Society, along with a companion portrait of Mr. Whitney, together with likenesses of the same couple painted years later by Erastus Salisbury Field. Broadbent's great talent was to produce a credible -- if too well drawn -- imitation of Colonial painting.
Hope, another Englishman, settled at Bridgeport in 1861, at the age of 29, and in short order took a wife, started a family and signed on with the Union Army as a musician. He returned to study art in Philadelphia, where he met the trompe l'oeil specialist Frederick Peto. His own trompe l'oeil is as black and white as it is in the illustration. Brandegee left Berlin, Conn., to study in France with a pupil of Ingres and, upon returning, settled in at Miss Porter's School, in Farmington, as an art teacher, painting several portraits of the founder. The version in the show is a sensitive impressionistic study of a middle-aged woman in a dress with leg-of-mutton sleeves. Brandegee, the label says, "rarely exhibited, enjoyed marriage," did some writing and "relished his local reputation as an eccentric."
The marine by Jewett is a beautiful little scene of square riggers at sixes and sevens on choppy seas. Born in Simsbury, Jewett painted only for the last 7 of his 46 years. He was a specialist in marines, with a studio in Hartford, and he had Bidwell for a student. This artist's aerial view of East Haddam, where nothing stirs on the water but a tall yacht seemingly in tow to a microscopic tug, is no less perfect for being touched with naivete. This show is the first of three at the museum, and all are integral to its grand plan for publishing a biographical dictionary. The formidable project, scheduled for 1994, will be masterminded by Mrs. Cummings. And a good thing, too, for she clearly has a gift for educating an audience without enervating it.
A note about the Reginald Marsh show that occupies the upstairs gallery and that unfortunately closes today. A display organized jointly by the Benton and the Fort Wayne Museum of Art, it includes not only prints, watercolors and paintings but also photographs taken by the artist. This could be all you will ever need of Coney Island or, for that matter, Reginald Marsh.
On the same campus not far from the Benton is the School of Fine Arts, which contains the Atrium Gallery. The current attraction is Graciela Iturbide, a Mexican photographer. All the prints are black and whites, and all focus on Juchitan, a fishing village on the Pacific Coast, in Oaxaca, where, it seems, the women are strong, Zapotec and uninhibited. They also organize the local economy, doling out money for cigarettes and drinks to their peasant husbands, one of whom may have had more than his share. In the shot of a woman standing on a street corner beside a primitive cross, he lies supine on the sidewalk behind her.
Whether it is the female administration or the photographer's view of it, Juchitan is strange in ways that are hard to define. One of the women poses in a hat made entirely of iguanas; another sits beside a man holding a small alligator in her lap. Either the reptiles are extraordinarily tame, or the town has a very gifted taxidermist on hand. A mother lounges in a hammock, suckling a child and leering at the viewer as if in derision. And, of course, there are the inevitable images of death, like that of the bleeding roosters illustrated.
Though these spectacles seem calculated to make jaded gringos feel close to reality, the turning point doesn't come until a man named Magnolia appears in drag under a ridiculous sombrero, and an old woman poses dead center in front of a Yves Klein-style scribble on a wall. What seemed reasonably spontaneous before, or at least open to negotiation, now looks downright knowing. I left the show imprinted by Ms. Iturbide's visions -- they are stark and good -- but unable to trust them.
The show of American painters continues through May 17 at the Benton Museum and the photographs of Graciela Iturbide through May 8 at the Atrium Gallery, both at UConn in Storrs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photograph by Graciela Iturbide at the Atrium Gallery. (The Atrium Gallery); "Pipe and Bubble" by Thomas Hope at Benton Museum. (Benton Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (55%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BENTON MUSEUM (STORRS, CONN); ATRIUM GALLERY (STORRS, CONN) UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENTON MUSEUM (STORRS, CONN); ATRIUM GALLERY (STORRS, CONN) UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (55%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS; PHOTOGRAPHY; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) PAINTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ART DEALERS (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (67%); MOUNTAINS (66%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN; ITURBIDE, GRACIELA ROBERT BRANDEGEE (69%); SAMUEL BROADBENT (68%); RILEY WHITNEY (56%); MARY BIDWELL (56%); HENRY HOPE FREDERICK STILES (56%); HILDY CUMMINGS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992

 
