

1 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Construction Costs;
For Some, a Lucky Time to Be Building

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
IT may sound implausible -- with lenders balking, tenants vanishing, bankruptcies increasing and foreclosures looming -- but the construction climate in New York City hasn't been this good in years.
Building costs have dropped to where they were in the mid-80's, construction executives say. Steel is cheaper. And while labor is not cheaper on the face of it, productivity has improved. Savings might amount to $10 or $20 or $30 a square foot, which has multimillion-dollar implications, given the scale on which New York builds. 
 "The cost for a nominally normal building -- one that isn't so special that it has no competition -- might be as much as 20 percent less than would have been planned three years ago," said John L. Tishman, chairman of the Tishman Construction Corporation of Manhattan. "That's a staggering difference."
Of course, that does not necessarily mean that costs in New York are reasonable, only that they are somewhat less astronomical. "The reductions have come off an artificially high level of costs," Mr. Tishman said, "because, for a period, there was too much work for the competitive process to control pricing as it should."
It also does not mean that general contractors and construction managers are besieged by clients eager to build while the costs are down. "It's like a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow," said Peter M. Lehrer, co-chairman of Lehrer McGovern Bovis, based in Manhattan. With speculative development all but frozen, his organization finds its work in special-purpose structures, such as a new office building for Capital Cities/ ABC at Columbus Avenue and 66th Street.
The cost of new construction for the 10-story ABC building, which will be used chiefly by the network's news division, was justified in contrast to the expense of leasing space. What made the budget attractive was that it factored in some savings that were "presumably due to market conditions," said Julie Hoover, a vice president at Capital Cities/ABC.
The KG A&A Corporation, owner of the Americas Tower office building, which is still under construction, has found that the depressed market has led to "fairly good prices" from subcontractors, said David Leslie, general manager for legal affairs and public relations. Work halted for 14 months at the tower, on the Avenue of the Americas, between 45th and 46th Streets, while the original development partners battled one another in court. Building resumed early this year.
Other savings have been reported.
Four years ago, Morse Diesel International started building a hospital in the Bronx. Now, it is about to embark on another major hospital job, this one in Brooklyn. "What we're finding is that we can build it for the same price or slightly less," said Daniel DeLosa, senior vice president in charge of estimating at Morse Diesel. He did not name the institutions but said that the cost for both was in the low $200-a-square-foot area. "The public sector is actually blessed," said Robert Fee, vice president and general manager of the New York territory for the Turner Construction Company, whose projects include three public schools in the Bronx and one in Brooklyn. He estimated that School Construction Authority projects cost one-third less today than two years ago, when the authority began building.
Meanwhile, Lehrer McGovern Bovis is finishing the Concerto, at Amsterdam Avenue and 60th Street, the fourth apartment tower it has built for the developer Daniel Brodsky, all of which were relatively similar from a construction standpoint, Mr. Lehrer said.
THE Concerto, at less than $100 a square foot, was cheaper than either 45 West 67th Street or 124 West 60th Street (known as South Park Tower), which were built in the mid-80's, Mr. Lehrer said. "And the quality of the building is as good as anything we did in the $125-a-square-foot cost range three or four years ago," he said.
In commercial construction, Mr. Lehrer estimated that the cost of building a core and shell was now in the range of $80 to $130 a square foot, which is at least 10 to 15 percent less than it was three or four years ago.
A critical reason for the decline in office construction costs is that steel is cheaper. Most construction-related steel products have dropped 10 to 20 percent in price from this time last year, said John E. Jacobson, managing director of AUS Consultants of West Conshohocken, Pa., which specializes in steel. He cited the price for wide-flange beams, which are used in commercial construction. They currently run $335 a ton, down from $360 a year ago.
"Steel has dropped at the plant and there are an awful lot of major steel fabricators who are very hungry for work," said Mr. DeLosa. "We're buying steel jobs for less than in the past few years."
Mr. Fee said he believed the biggest decline in the price of steel came in the cost of erecting it. Because there were not many steel erector concerns in New York City, he said, their work had commanded a premium. Now, he said, steel contractors have become more competitive, spurred not only by their efforts to obtain what little work there is from local rivals but also by the arrival on the scene of out-of-town concerns.
All told, it currently costs about $1,500 to $1,600 a ton for steel, erected in place, in a New York City job, Mr. Fee said. That is down from about $1,800 to $1,900 a ton at the height of the 1980's building boom, he said.
An office building might use about 18 pounds of steel per square foot of space. A 30-story tower with 20,000-square-foot floors -- 600,000 square feet in all -- would need 10.8 million pounds, or 5,400 tons, of steel. Therefore, the total cost of steel for this hypothetical tower, which might have been as high as $10 million a few years ago, might now be more in the neighborhood of $8 million.
Among the material-intensive trades, as opposed to those where the major cost is labor itself, steel may be more the exception than the rule.
Mr. Tishman noted that, contrary to the overall rule of decreasing prices were "some of the major trades on major projects where the competition is not sufficient to reflect the savings that should be available." He mentioned subcontractors who install elevators in high-rise buildings and those who specialize in stonework facades. To that list Mr. Lehrer added electrical, heating, air-conditioning and glazing subcontractors.
On the other hand, Mr. Lehrer said, "trades that are highly dependent on labor, such as masonry, foundations, concrete -- these are where we've seen reductions in costs."
"The labor rates themselves seem to have leveled off to a minimal escalation, trade by trade," Mr. Tishman said. "When there's less work, the productivity of labor is enhanced because of the competition among people to keep their jobs. So there is a slackening off of the ultimate labor costs."
"Subcontractors are getting the advantage of picking the best workers," Mr. Lehrer said. "We're seeing better quality and better performance in terms of time because there's a higher percentage of competent mechanics working and a desire on their part to do a good job and stay employed."
Construction executives are unanimous in describing the peril posed by subcontractors who bid too low for their own good.
"Our labor agreements rise 6 percent a year," Mr. Fee said. "Material costs are certainly not creeping up anywhere near that amount. What you're seeing is a squeeze on the margins. People are starting to take jobs for cash flow, saying, 'I won't make any money but maybe I can pay my overhead, keep my business going for a year or so.' That becomes dangerous if they have no room for error. You can eventually drive prices so low that people can go bankrupt on jobs."
"We're watching very carefully where subcontractors are reaching too far," Mr. Tishman said. "The danger is that a downtrend can catch them when it starts going up again" -- that is, if they have overestimated productivity or underestimated material costs.
"I deal with clients who are pressured by contractors, trade contractors, subcontractors to be considered who offer very tempting opportunities which we want to evaluate in the context of their ability to produce," Mr. Tishman said. "The ripple effect of one contractor failing to perform is tremendous."
Mr. Lehrer, too, said that one single subcontractor can disastrously upset the mosaic of a construction project. Lehrer McGovern Bovis has not yet had a major subcontractor go under, he said, although one project was plagued by a marble contractor who was unable to perform.
Taking a wider view of the future, there is less unanimity among the construction executives -- and much less certainty.
Mr. Lehrer foresees special-use projects like the ABC building and the Chase Financial Services Center at the Metrotech complex in downtown Brooklyn.
Mr. Fee sees the traditional general contractors crowding into the field of interiors, as there will always be a demand for new office installations.
Institutional and governmental work clearly has assumed center stage. Tishman, for example, is the construction manager of the Postal Service's 2 million-square-foot General Mail Facility, on Ninth Avenue, between 28th and 29th Streets, and the 1 million-square-foot One Foley Square Federal Office Building on Broadway, between Duane and Reade Streets.
MORSE DIESEL is the construction manager of a 204,000-square-foot research building for the Rockefeller University, over the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, at 64th Street, and a 509,000-square-foot office research building for the New York University Medical Center, at First Avenue and 32d Street.
The president of the New York Building Congress, Louis J. Coletti, sees hope for the construction industry in the renovation of existing buildings as well as continued spending on public projects, which can take advantage of the best prices in the past decade.
But Mr. Fee sees a limit to that field. "I'm just afraid that we've all crowded into the public sector, working for the School Construction Authority, Health and Hospitals Corporation, Dormitory Authority," he said. "But if you look to the 70's, they eventually had financial problems and that faucet was shut down."
"I can't conceive that the recession will go further and affect our industry," Mr. Tishman said. "If it goes further down, there will be no construction. So I have to predict that costs have leveled off and will begin to rise again." However, he added, "I don't expect costs to rise nearly as fast as they fell, even with a healthy economy, because there won't be so many projects starting."
In any case, no one is holding a "Prices-Will-Never-Be-This-Low-Again" sale. And until the financing picture grows brighter, it does not seem likely that there would be many buyers anyway. As Mr. Lehrer noted: "We have not yet had someone say, 'It's a great time to build because construction costs are down.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction workers preparing a barrel of cement at the Capital Cities/ABC building. (pg. 1); New building for Capital Cities/ABC at Columbus Avenue and 66th Street. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (50%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ABC INC (53%); MORSE DIESEL INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PRICES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



2 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 6; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	VALUE OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS	 	 	 	(Residential in millions of dollars)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		July 91	July 90	Change	New York	442.8	399.7	11%	New Jersey	157.8	115.8	36%	Connecticut	79.6	78.2	2%	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Source: F.W. Dodge Division, McGraw-Hill Information	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.39	9.36	10.49	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	7.10	7.16	8.40	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.24	9.25	10.30	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.96	7.06	8.12	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.30	9.30	10.36	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.94	6.97	8.32	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	9.50	9.50	10.65	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	7.59	7.62	8.57	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	 	 	1-yr. Treasury security	5.62	5.72	7.93	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.12	9.12	9.85	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RATES; PRICES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CITIES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



3 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: For First-Time Buyers;
Sonny Mae Workshops

 BODY:
The slump in residential prices throughout the region has given people in the market for housing more leverage than they have had in years. But buying a home can be a daunting experience for newcomers to the scene.
The State of New York Mortgage Agency, which offers low-interest loans to qualified first-time buyers, tries to demystify the home-buying process in the workshops it holds frequently throughout the state. The September schedule includes workshops in Hempstead, L.I., on the 17th; Saugerties, in Ulster County, on the 23d; Yonkers on the 24th and Brooklyn on the 25th. 
 Besides representatives of the agency, known as Sonny Mae, participants will include loan officers from the banks that offer Sonney Mae loans; real estate brokers, lawyers and housing engineers.Prospective home buyers can expect assistance on such matters as figuring out what is affordable and sorting out the various types of mortgages available and the ongoing costs of maintaining a home.
The Brooklyn workshop will begin at 6 P.M. in the Borough Hall Courtroom at 209 Joralemon Street. All workshops are free but registration is advisable. Information on workshops outside New York City is available by calling the agency at (212) 340-4358 or (800) 382-HOME.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE OF NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY

ORGANIZATION: STATE OF NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



4 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Speeders Beware: New Device Looms

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
IN an intensified effort to discourage speeders, state transportation officials are experimenting with computer-enhanced radar photography that could make conventional radar detectors obsolete.
The new computerized radar system, which is being tested by the New Jersey State Police in several locations, allows the authorities not only to record the speed of a vehicle, but also to make a photograph that could later be used in court. The radar, known as photo-radar, has been hailed by law-enforcement officials as an effective and economical way to curtail speeding. 
 But critics of the new radar system have assailed it as an invasion of motorists' privacy. They have also complained that tickets issued on the basis of photographs made by the machine could end up creating more court cases than the legal system can handle.
"If I'm speeding because my wife is going into labor, or I'm speeding because I'm drunk as a skunk, that distinction can't be made by a machine," said Edward Martone, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. Mr. Martone said that ticketing the owner on the basis of a photograph could place the burden of proving guilt or innocence on the vehicle's owner, rather than the authorities.
State highway officials began experimenting with the photo-radar system in an effort to reduce the number of speeding motorists. Under Federal highway guildelines, the Government can strip a state of part of its highway funds if more than 50 percent of the drivers in that state exceed the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit.
Last year, New Jersey came perilously close to losing $30 million in highway funds, when 46 percent of its motorists exceeded the speed limit, said James A. Arena, director of the State Division of Highway Traffic Safety.
"Our objective is simply to gain compliance with the law, have safer roadways and reduce the number of drivers exceeding the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit," Mr. Arena said, adding that the radar system would not be used to monitor drivers 24 hours a day.
The photo-radar unit that the state uses, Mr. Arena said, operates much like a conventional radar, with both the conventional and the photo-radar unit broadcasting a signal that reflects off a vehicle back to a transmitter that computes the vehicle's speed.
The difference, he said, lies in the narrow field of the beam the photo-radar unit uses, as well as the unit's built-in computer, which allows it to make a photograph of a vehicle after the vehicle's speed has been determined. The unit superimposes the vehicle's speed and the date and time of the incident on the photograph.
Because the signal from the photo-radar system is sent out over a narrower field than a conventional radar, Mr. Arena added, it is hard for a driver's radar detector to pick up the unit's signal. In most cases, Mr. Arena said, such detectors do not pick up the radar field until the driver is in it or has passed it. At the same time, he said, the photo-radar unit the state uses can monitor speeds in both directions simultaneously.
"The radar band is four inches wide and an inch high and we can target it right across the road," he said. "By the time your radar detector picks it up, it's already too late."
For now, Mr. Arena said, officials plan to send warning letters and not summonses to people caught speeding by the photo-radar. He declined to say when the state would begin issuing summonses to violators.
Two benefits from the new system, Mr. Arena said, are the amount of time it saves law-enforcement officials and its safety. A typical traffic stop by an officer can take 15 or 20 minutes and can create an unsafe condition for the officer, the speeder and other motorists.
With the photo-radar system, a summons can be issued without the officer's stopping the violator. And the number of summonses that can be issued in a relatively short time is substantial.
During a demonstration by the manufacturer, the Gatso Corporation of the Netherlands, the "device was literally clicking off, clocking, documenting and photographing three speeders per second," Mr. Arena said.
The photo-radar system, which costs $65,000, can clock and photograph vehicles either approaching or going away from the unit and can also photograph vehicles in the dark, using a high-speed, high-intensity flash, Mr. Arena said. The flash would barely be perceptible to motorists, he said.
Mr. Arena said the state would also install electronic message boards that contain radar units to calculate and display the speed of oncoming motorists to alert them that they are either approaching or have just passed through a photo-radar site.
But Steven Carrellas, president of the 2,000-member New Jersey chapter of the National Motorist Association, said that the new technology was a "waste of money" and that using a machine to mass-issue speeding tickets was not going to change the way people drive.
"They wouldn't have the need to use more sophisticated speed-enforcement devices if they just set speed limits at the appropriate levels," Mr. Carrellas said, adding that a 65 m.p.h. speed limit is more realistic because highway traffic often flows 5 to 10 miles above the limit.
"If you're on a road and the speed of the road is 5 to 10 miles per hour higher than the speed limit, then you're a more dangerous driver if you're not keeping up with the traffic," he said.
 
Extenuating Circumstances
 In addition, he said, when speeding tickets are just "fired off" by a computer, extenuating circumstances like emergencies are not taken into consideration.
"If you don't have the cop sitting there, watching what's going on and making judgment calls, then you're not going to be doing your best job for highway safety," he said.
Mr. Martone, of the American Civil Liberties Union, agreed. "If you're not stopping the car at the scene, then there's a real good chance that you're sending the ticket by mail to somebody who wasn't even in the vehicle," he said.
Such a problem, he said, would be exacerbated in the case of rental cars and company cars that are used by many different people. "I can see Mr. Hertz or Mr. Avis spending a lot of time in court denying that it's them behind the wheel," Mr. Martone said.
Officials acknowledge that some tickets might be issued to owners of vehicles who were not driving at the time of the violations. But for those that are issued to the proper people, identification should not be a problem. Officials say that computer enhancement of the photograph -- commonly referred to as computer imaging -- will make it possible to identify the driver accurately.
"Even if you have a blurry photograph," Mr. Arena said, "the imaging equipment will bring out the details clearly."
 
In Use in Other Places
 The overall benefits of photo-radar, he said, have been well documented in other cities that are already using the technology. Paradise Valley, Ariz., for example, has used the photo-radar technology since 1987.
Onno Prinsze, support services division commander of the Paradise Valley Police Department, said the number of traffic accidents there had been cut nearly in half since the town started using photo-radar.
"We like to say we have modified driver behavior," he said. Using photo-radar, he said, the 30-person Police Department issues nearly 10,000 tickets a year in the 12,500-resident municipality, which is between Scottsdale and Phoenix.
"It's not the money we're after," Mr. Prinsze said. "We just want to modify the behavior of the driver."
That sentiment was echoed by New Jersey officials. "No one wants to make enemies," Mr. Arena said. "But there is really a need to have people comply with the law. We intend to send out warnings first. But we don't know if a warning letter will be sufficient. If it is, then everybody's happy."
Critics say, however, that once officials discover they can issue literally thousands of tickets almost automatically, then tickets instead of warnings are sure to follow.
"It would be an absolute windfall," said Thomas A. DeClemente, a Lyndhurst lawyer. "A city could probably repay one machine's cost in two months."
 
Deluge of Complaints Feared
 Pervasive use of photo-radar, Mr. DeClemente said, would raise other legal and logistical problems. "The first thing that comes to mind is that there could be a deluge of complaints that could decimate the municipal court system," he said.
In addition, he said, a court hearing based upon a photo-radar summons is analagous to "trial by machine" where it is virtually impossible to attack the fallibility of a mechanicl device. And photo-radar, he said, is at the very least an invasion of privacy.
"You're getting photographed by a hidden camera without your knowing it," he said. "Big Brother is watching you now for real."
Mr. Arena said the Big Brother metaphor was inappropriate. The use of photo-radar and of the message boards is simply a supplement to traditional police work, he said.
"We don't have to run this thing 24 hours a day and generate 80,000 photographs," he said. "If people know photo-radar is in use -- if they see a flash or their friend gets a warning -- and people slow down because of that, then we've acheived our objective.
"It's almost like playing football," Mr. Arena said. "You have to mix up your plays all the time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A car used in a demonstration of the new photo-radar system (pg. 1); A computer enhancement of a photograph taken during a test of the photo-radar system. Panels show the original radar photograph, the computerized time, speed and date, a close-up of the driver and a close-up of the license plate (pg. 8) (State Division of Highway Traffic Safety)
 
Drawing showing how the new system might work on the state's highways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RADAR; SPEED LIMITS AND SPEEDING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS RADAR SYSTEMS (94%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); VEHICLE SEARCH (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



5 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2775 words

HEADLINE: Now Is the Time to Invest in the Soviets

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Even before the colossal events of recent days -- the Soviet coup, the collapse of Communist rule, the splintering away of the republics -- everything seemed to be going wrong for Dresser Industries' plans to rebuild an aging drill-bit factory in southern Russia.
The central government in Moscow was feuding with the Russian republic over who was empowered to award the huge contract to the Dallas-based producer of oilfield equipment. One of the ministries Dresser was dealing with was almost dissolved. And Dresser's Soviet partners, ministries responsible for chemicals and heavy machinery, were struggling to find the hard currency to finance the project. 
 Although last week's kaleidoscopic twists and turns leave many daunting uncertainties about the Soviet Union's future, Dresser's chairman, John J. Murphy, is confident that August's rush of events will help end the logjam on Dresser's project and the stalled projects of dozens of other Western companies.
"Within the Russian republic I think things will accelerate very quickly, and that should also be true for the Ukraine," said Mr. Murphy. "The people who were blocking reform are gone."
Western capitalists -- those villains the Soviet leader Nikita Krushchev once vowed to bury -- certainly have cause to celebrate their ideological victory. But for companies negotiating Soviet joint ventures, questions remain about how the central government and republics will divvy up power, whether territorial disputes might erupt between republics and what will happen to the near-worthless ruble.
Still, Westerners are reassured by two developments: Not since 1917 have the Soviet Union and its republics been so committed to building a market economy, and not since that time has the country been so interested in attracting foreign capital, technology and management skills to help modernize outmoded factories, fill empty stores and feed the pent-up consumer demand that is palpably evident in Moscow's open markets. So hungry are the Soviets for Western capital, in fact, that they have even offered to sell American investors a stake in their vaunted space program.
"The coup's failure has galvanized a rapidly growing desire to get on with the conversion to a market economy," said Ronald Freeman, first vice president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the new London-based bank formed to help Eastern Europe. "Everyone, at every level of government, seems to be pointing in that direction."
Many companies have shunned investing in the Soviet Union because they had little enthusiasm for its bureaucratic Socialism. And executives were reluctant to take the plunge, despite the reforms of Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, because of talk of a possible hard-line coup that might restore Stalinism.
 
A Question of Timing
 With the coup now defeated, there is less reason to delay. "If you wait until you have an ideal investment environment, with clear laws and rules of the game, you're talking five or 10 years," said Jeffrey Hertzfeld, a Paris-based American lawyer who works with Western investors in the Soviet Union. "But if you wait five years, you might find that a lot of the most attractive partners have already made commitments to other companies."
Western executives making their first visits to Moscow may be shocked by the difficulties of living and doing business there. The telecommunications system is laughable; apartments and office space are hard to get and prohibitively priced. With the nation's political framework changing by the minute, it is harder than ever to know which branch of government owns what and which level one must address to get joint ventures approved.
For instance, the American Trade Consortium, a group that includes RJR Nabisco, Johnson & Johnson and Archer Daniels Midland, has worked closely with the central government on forming joint ventures. But with the Kremlin's power now disintegrating, the consortium may have to negotiate its deals all over again with individual republics.
"It might be difficult today or this week to do things, so you have to let the dust settle a little bit," said James H. Giffen, president of the consortium. "Provided certain things happen, there will be substantial opportunities for Western investors." For Mr. Giffen, those "things" include having at least Russia and a few other republics hang together in a coalition, naming qualified people to replace the ousted Communists, and replacing the "endless debate" about economic reform with "specific action."
What will also give Western investors a bumpy ride is the dire state of the Soviet economy. In addition to the worthless ruble, industrial output is expected to plunge 30 percent this year because of the turmoil and inflation threatens to spiral out of control.
The Soviet Union's new rush toward capitalism, after years of President Gorbachev's waffling, will have huge ramifications for the world's economy. It will open up a consumer market of 280 million people, equal to the United States and Canada combined. That's a lot of teeth, one Colgate-Palmolive executive said, in explaining his company's plans to open a toothpaste factory in Kiev.
Although the Soviet Union is often described as a third-world country, investors may be enticed by its highly educated labor force and skilled engineers, especially in its military industries. "There aren't many third-world countries that produce world chess champions or send rockets into space," said Mr. Hertzfeld.
Despite its people's shabby living standards, the Soviet Union is one of the world's most bountiful nations. It is rich in oil, gas and minerals. Many Soviet officials want Western investors to help tap those natural resources, which will provide vital hard currency needed to modernize factories and import consumer goods.
There should be little surprise then that oil titans like Chevron, Texaco and British Petroleum are seeking to negotiate joint ventures to help the Soviets revive their oil industry. Because of aging equipment and poor management, Soviet daily oil output has dropped 20 percent since 1988, but still remains the largest in the world.
"If you simply look at what needs to be done to increase production from known oil reservoirs, that is probably the greatest single opportunity in the world for our industry," said Dresser's chairman, Mr. Murphy. "If you look at new exploration opportunities, where there are known geologic structures that are promising for drilling, you double or triple that opportunity."
 
Just What Is Europe?
 With Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania breaking away, and Byelorussia, Georgia and the Ukraine declaring their independence, the whole concept or definition of Europe is changing. The notion of a single European market or economic space is also rapidly evolving. For more than a year, there has been talk that Austria and Sweden might soon join the 12-nation European Community, and that Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary might eventually follow. But in recent days discussion has turned to whether the Baltic republics, the Ukraine and Byelorussia might someday become members as well.
"In the year 2,000 and something, the Community may have somewhere between two or three times the present number of members," said Dominique Moisi, deputy director of the French Institute of Foreign Relations.
The Soviet situation has also spurred a lively debate within the Group of Seven industrialized nations about whether to provide massive economic aid to revive the Soviet economy. Many European officials argue that aid similar to a Marshall Plan could buoy the Soviet economy, which would in turn spur the world economy. But many American and Japanese officials still maintain that until market reforms are in place, giving massive aid would be like pouring money down a sinkhole.
While Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin has for months sought to adopt market reforms, the central government undermined those plans. With the Kremlin's power evaporating and hard-liners like the coup leaders in jail or out of office, Mr. Yeltsin can now move swiftly.
"The people we have been dealing with in the Russian Federation -- at the city council level and the republic level -- are already in progressive mode and want to do business in a different way," said John A. Norlander, president of the Radisson Hotel Corporation, which runs a 430-room joint-venture Moscow hotel.
 
Market Economies
 Of the 15 Soviet republics, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are expected to adopt market economies first. These Baltic republics, annexed by Moscow in 1940, have fresher memories of capitalism than the rest of the Soviet Union. Though tiny, they are already getting more than their share of Western investment because of their close ties to Scandinavia and long-time disdain for Communism.
Many executives say the best investment opportunities will be in republics with oil, gas and other natural resources, meaning Russia, Kazakhstan and the Ukraine. "As the Soviet Union falls apart, Western investors will look first to those republics that have the best likelihood to generate hard-currency earnings," said Karl von der Heyden, chief financial officer of RJR Nabisco, which is negotiating to produce cigarettes and cookies in Russia and Kazakhstan.
Republics with those resources will have more muscle to set up joint ventures as well as that magical stuff -- hard currency -- that Western companies crave for repatriating profits.
Consumer goods executives say the best place to invest may be the republics with the most people and disposable income. That means the Russian Federation, which has 150 million people, and the Ukraine, with 52 million. Together, they have 70 percent of the nation's population. Reacting to the Ukraine's declaration of independence, Coca-Cola announced plans last Thursday to open an office in Kiev, that republic's capital.
"The Ukraine is the equal of France in population," said Francois Archambault, director of investor relations for L'Oreal, the French cosmetics giant, which has a factory nearMoscow. "It's not a place that you should ignore."
One effect of the republics' struggle to grab power from the center is that businesses setting up shop in the area might have to deal with one less level of bureaucracy. "It should make things easier because you might eliminate a lot of bureaucracy at the central government level," said Nabisco's Mr. von der Heyden.
That should come as a relief for Alcatel, the Paris-based telecommunications giant, which is having problems opening a factory in Leningrad to make digital switching equipment. The huge project would produce about $3.5 billion in equipment over 20 years.
Alcatel officials say a jurisdictional free-for-all among Soviet officials has snagged progress. The Soviet Ministry of Industry, which built the factory; the Soviet Army, which once operated it, and the City of Leningrad, which owns the land, are all claiming ownership. To finalize the joint venture, Alcatel has had to deal with the Soviet ministries of telecommunications and machinery, the Russian republic's ministries of telecommunications and machinery, and several City of Leningrad departments.
"The further you decentralize things, the easier it should be to deal," said John J. Goossens, chairman of Alcatel Bell of Belgium, which is running the project. "If from now on we have to go through just the Russian Federation, with whom we have had very easy dealings, it will definitely make things easier."
Despite the myriad hurdles to set up shop, many companies that have done so, including Polaroid, L'Oreal and Tambrands, say their factories are operating fairly smoothly.
In March 1989, Tambrands, the White Plains-based maker of feminine hygiene supplies, opened a 300-worker factory in Kiev producing 300 million tampons a year. Its partner, the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, contributed the land and building; Tambrands put up $10 million.
 
The Demand Is There
 "In terms of setting up a factory, hiring workers and getting production up to standards, the operation has gone very well," said Paul Konney, a senior vice president with Tambrands. He said Soviet consumers have been eager buyers. "There is huge pent-up demand for consumer goods," he said.
Tambrands has received permission to export Soviet cotton to the West, and the hard currency from those sales can be repatriated to the United States as profits. Several times this year customs agents blocked such exports, but Tambrands officials suspect that hardliners opposed to joint ventures caused these snags. With the hardliners gone, Tambrands expects fewer problems.
George Hamilton, senior managing director of international business development for Polaroid, says Western companies should worry more about developing long-term relationships than rushing to repatriate profits. He said Polaroid, whose three Soviet factories assemble cameras and make printed circuit boards and plastic moldings, hopes to build its position and profits in the Soviet Union by providing what the nation wants: new jobs, new skills and some exports.
"Companies that worry only about taking out short-term profits can feed the nation's distrust of capitalism that started 100 years ago," he said. "We see the Soviet Union as a long-term commitment."
 
 
 
ADVICE PEDDLERS ALL OVER
 Ever since Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev invited in Western investors in 1987, a booming new business has developed: providing advice on investing in the land of Lenin.
Many consultants recommend direct investment in three areas: consumer goods, services and energy.
"If you're interested in energy you can't find a more fertile area for investment," said James H. Giffen, president of the American Trade Consortium, a group of American companies negotiating to set up joint ventures in the Soviet Union. He noted that the Soviet Union has the world's largest reserves of natural gas.
"Services is a really good area because you have a blank slate there," said Michelle Siren, a Soviet expert with Price Waterhouse in London. With Soviet restaurants and hotels so inhospitable, companies like Radisson, Marriott, McDonald's and Pizza Hut are rushing to fill the vacuum.
But some experts say it's important not to assume that choosing a certain sector guarantees success. "I recommend a deal-by-deal, enterprise-by-enterprise approach," said Keith Crane, a senior economist with Planecon, a Washington-based consulting firm specializing in Easten Europe. "It's like in the West. You can lose zillions of dollars in high tech or you can make millions in textiles or vice versa."
There is some disagreement over whether now is the proper time to prospect for opportunities. Some experts recommend waiting a few months, until the nation's murky, unstable situation becomes clearer. But Ms. Siren said: "It is always a good time to look because it takes a long time to find exactly the kind of relationship you're looking for."
 
 
 
IT'LL BE A LONG ROAD TO A MARKET ECONOMY
 DESPITE the Soviet Union's post-coup eagerness to embrace a market economy, the cradle of Communism will likely have a harder time making the conversion to capitalism than have most Eastern European countries, economists say.
The Soviet Union's economy is more primitive, and its output was expected to drop this year even before serious reforms. In addition, many people fear a poor harvest and even famine.
Also unlike many Eastern Europeans, the Soviets have no memories of a market economy. "What is at stake here is not a simple reform," said Aleksander Vacic, chief economist for the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe in Geneva. "It is the alteration of an entire economic system by a completely different system, for which the population doesn't have the preparation and in many cases has animosity toward."
Aggravating matters is political disintegration, which can fray economic ties between republics. A television factory in Russia might have to shut down, for example, if it can't obtain antennas from Byelorussia or tubes from the Ukraine.
As the republics move toward a market economy, many people steeped on Marxism might grow unhappy about soaring prices, growing disparities of wealth and bosses ordering them to work harder.
Jan Stankowski, an economist with the Institute for Comparative Economic Studies in Vienna, said, "The process of establishing an efficient, prosperous market economy in the U.S.S.R. will take not years but decades."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the coup, entrepreneurs line Moscow's streets with offerings, wooing consumers (Shepard Sherbell/SABA) (pg. 1); Assembling a Jeep-type Oka, a first for the Soviet market. (Tass from Sovfoto); McDonald's gets lots of grins in Moscow. (TASS from Sovfoto)
; Table: "All Across the U.S.S.R. shows per captia G.N.P. for the Soviet Republics compared with the overall Soviet Union, in 1989 (Sources: Planecon, Washington) (pg. 6)
 
Graph: "Joint Projects," shows a breakdown of the value of foreign partners' investments in joint ventures with the Soviet Union that have at least raised investment money, by region, including: Western Europe (1,871), Canada (87), Japan (46), U.S. (360), developing countries (149), other (639) (Source: Planecon, Washington) (pg. 6)
 
Map of the Soviet Union, indicating its various republic by region. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DI (NYSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DRESSER INDUSTRIES INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); TRENDS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN J MURPHY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



6 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
How Safe Is the Dollar Harbor?

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
In the long run, one of the casualties of the demise of Communism in what was the Soviet Union could be the American dollar.
Long the safe harbor at times when the cold war seemed in danger of heating up, the old greenback will no longer have the bogyman of Communism to chase frantic investors its way. Investors will not need a safe harbor as often, and this means one of the props that have helped support the dollar over the long term may be gone. 
 This does not mean the dollar will fall immediately, according to Michael R. Rosenberg, manager of international fixed income research at Merrill Lynch in New York. He is holding to his forecast of 1.80 German marks to the dollar a year from now.
The hope for a recovery in the United States and the expected improvement in American inflation relative to Germany, he said, argue for a stronger dollar, when run though an econometric model. The dollar closed in New York at 1.7470 on Friday.
But he sees the trend changing in a statistical item that has been a relatively good mirror of dollar movements in the past -- the total of United States military spending as a percent of the gross national product. For him, this measure is a proxy for the dollar's attractiveness as a safe harbor.
Since 1970, the dollar has risen as military spending rose as a percent of the gross national product and has fallen when this measure declined. If the changes in the Soviet Union mean elimination of the hard-line threat that the West had faced since World War II, then military spending here could continue to decline. According to the Congressional Budget Office, military spending should fall from 5.5 percent of the gross national product to 4 percent by 1996 under the current budget agreement. This means, Mr. Rosenberg said, that the dollar could move "decisively lower" by the mid-1990's.
The role of the dollar -- and of the United States -- as a safe harbor in time of political or economic turmoil has already declined as the world's financial markets have become more global and more open, and investors, with the help of computers, have been able to move quickly from one currency to another or to gold, stocks or bonds.
Take, for example, the invasion of the Kuwait by Iraq last year. On the day before the invasion, the dollar was at 1.5882 marks to the dollar. The dollar rallied some on the news of the invasion on Aug. 2, but it never moved sharply. And, then, as the Persian Gulf crisis dragged on toward open combat, the dollar fell, reaching its post-World War II low against the mark early this year.
The outlook for the Soviet Union -- or for the republics that were the Soviet Union -- did not get any clearer last week. And the outlook for the free world's markets or economies did not either. It was more of the same: a lot of mixed signals.
In the United States, what was thought to be a small rise in the gross national product in the second quarter was revised by the Commerce Department to a small decline, raising more doubts about the strength of the recovery. But with the hope for a cut in interest rates that this news engendered, the Dow Jones industrial average hit a another record high of 3,055.23.
In Japan the scandals that have wracked the market this year seem still to be holding stock prices back, as trading volume has been pitifully low, languishing at levels that have not been seen since 1982. Hopes for the stock market are being pinned again on another short-term interest-rate cut by the Bank of Japan.
In Europe, the German stock market, which was hit hardest by the coup, reclaimed its lost ground. But the economy still faces rising inflation and the threat of higher interest rates. Britain is still waiting for the recovery and the stock market remains below the highs reached earlier this year.
UBS Phillips & Drew in London is increasing its investment in German stocks, after 15 months of caution, because of the psychological boost expected from the definitive demise of Communism in the Soviet Union.
For a play on the Soviet story, Guy Rigden, the director of strategy at UBS, likes the basics: food, detergents and communications. For him this means stocks like Ferruzzi in Italy, the giant dealer in grains and other commodities, and Henkel in Germany, maker of consumer goods like washing powders. Given the immediate needs in the Soviet Union, these kinds of stocks should get a lift, he said, "if things go well or just moderately well there." He cautioned, though, "If things go badly, no one is going to do well."
Michael Howell, chief strategist in London for Salomon Brothers, does not think there are many good plays to make on the Soviet drama. He believes that domestic issues will continue to dominate stock markets and that the impact of the Soviet Union on stocks will be marginal.
But he has a stock that should move with the domestic rhythms he is watching and still dance with the change in the Soviet Union. It is BSN, the French food and beverage company. That company would benefit from the declining inflation in France while taking advantage of the demand for food in the Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (75%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (75%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; COMMUNISM (THEORY AND PHILOSOPHY) US DOLLAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GERMAN MARK (88%); WORLD WAR II (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BONDS (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (70%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



7 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: A Battle for Control of the World's Largest Tin Mine

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: BOM FUTURO, Brazil

 BODY:
In 1987, an Amazon woodcutter working on a wilderness ridge here cut down a massive tree. Reaching between the roots, he plucked out a black rock, heavy with tin ore.
Four years later, the ridge has vanished into a 20-square-mile moonscape carved out of the rain forest. It is now the largest tin mine in the world. 
 But, belying its name, "Good Future," the wealth of this tin mountain has been its undoing.
By digging into the open pit mine 1,400 miles from Brazil's Atlantic coast, miners turned Brazil into the world's largest tin producer. But their labor also flooded world markets with tin, helping to depress prices on the London Metals Exchange to about $5,585 a ton now, from $8,600 in 1989.
What is more, Brazil did not realize all the benefits of its own mine, since much of tin was smuggled out and sold for better prices in neighboring Bolivia.
With tin prices at their lowest level in real terms since World War II, the Brazilian Government recently seized a chance to reclaim the mine from the thinning legion of wildcat miners here. Citing violations of environmental laws, 200 federal police swept through on Aug. 3 and closed the mine.
"They operated without paying taxes, without obeying environmental legislation and without providing social benefits," complained Samuel Hanan, chairman of the board of Empresa Brasileira de Estanho S.A., a consortium of seven Brazilian mining companies. Ebesa has been fighting for four years to prove that the wildcat miners jumped its claim to Bom Futuro.
The mining machinery here is locked up until the dispute is resolved. Bom Futuro's impasse is symptomatic of a wider malaise in this vast, mineral-rich nation.
After growing in the 1970's, Brazil's annual mineral production dropped during the 1980's to $4.6 billion in 1990, from $5.2 billion in 1980.
During a recent congress in Brasilia sponsored by the Brazilian Mining Institute, an industry association, mining executives suggested two reasons for the drop.
One is a clause in the country's Constitution, adopted in 1988, which bars foreigners from owning majorities of voting shares in mining companies in Brazil. The other is the chaotic working environment: an estimated 300,000 miners work roughly 1,800 deposits, often with technology little changed from the days of the California gold rush.
Bom Futuro's development shows how damaging that chaos can be to the mineral market and the country.
At a rough board table at Coogari, the miners' cooperative in Bom Futuro, Joel Nunes da Silva recalled the heady days of the tin rush.
"On October 17, 1987, military police expelled the gunslingers hired by Paranapanema," said Mr. da Silva, secretary of the cooperative, referring to the Grupo Paranapanema Mineracoes, which holds 49.67 percent of Ebesa's shares.
"The next morning, it was the most beautiful thing I have ever seen," he continued, speaking of the pell-mell invasion of the mining site. "By the end of the morning, we had washed 2,000 kilos of cassiterite." Cassiterite is the principal ore of tin.
The ground around the deposit was littered with chunks of cassiterite weighing as much as 275 pounds. The deposit averaged 11 pounds of cassiterite per cubic meter of earth. Today, with miners digging deeper, the concentration is lower -- about 4.4 pounds per cubic meter of soil. But the average tin concentration level in cassiterite here is 60 percent -- among the world's highest.
Word spread quickly on the frontier, and overnight Bom Futuro developed into a wild west mining town of 20,000 people -- a motley crew of farm boys, lumberjacks, prostitutes and saloon keepers. Ore trucks frequently left the town carrying bodies of victims of numerous shootings and knifings.
In their fever to dig tin, miners ignored mosquitoes that proliferated when seasonal rains flooded the cratered landscape.
"I gave up mining after 40 bouts of malaria," said Elio Takao Hayashi, a veterinarian by training who is now president of the miners' cooperative.
Disdainful of controls, miners smuggled cassiterite by truck or airplane to Bolivia. There, they were paid directly in dollars -- often 100 percent more than the Brazilian Government paid exporters because of a policy in the late 80's of overvaluing the local currency.
Without opening any new mines, Bolivia's tin production soared in 1989 to 15,000 tons from 6,000 tons. That year, Brazil lost an estimated $300 million in taxes and official export revenues because of the contraband.
Because of wasteful mining practices and plummeting international prices, Brazil suffered other losses.
The technology used here recuperates only 60 percent of the ore, much lower than an 85 percent recovery rate with modern technology, said Mr. Hanan of Ebesa.
In addition, with world tin stocks at 44,000 tons, tin prices have fallen steadily since smuggling started in the second half of 1989. For most Brazilian producers, tin prices were below production costs, which led to a steady decline in official tin production -- from 50,000 tons in 1989, to 33,000 tons in 1990, to an estimated 30,000 tons this year.
"You throw Bom Futuro on the world market, and prices hit the floor," said Mr. Hanan, who is managing director of Paranapanema, which produces 90 percent of Brazil's legal tin.
Miners here charge that if Paranapanema takes over Bom Futuro, it will close the mine to lift prices for a company that has a near monopoly on Brazil's production.
Mr. Hanan denied the charges, saying that the Ebesa consortium has drawn up plans immediately to invest $20 million, including $4 million for pollution controls, in the mine.
The Association of Tin-Producing Countries, has stipulated that Brazil must control production here to join the international cartel. The association's members are Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Thailand and Zaire.
One year ago, Brazil's President, Fernando Collor de Mello, announced that his Government intended to join the cartel and promised to end the movement of contraband of tin to Bolivia. Largely for economic reasons, tin smuggling dropped sharply. A new policy of realistic exchange rates has narrowed the difference between the black market cruzeiro rate and the official rate for the dollar from 130 percent two years ago to 10 percent today.
To reopen the mine here, the roughly 30 companies operating here would have to band together to present a plan to end the dumping of as much as 850,000 cubic meters of soil in local rivers. With prices low and rivalry high, such a joint endeavor is deemed unlikely.
"I think it's the end of the adventure," Generidio de Carvalho Schwenk, a 44-year-old trucker, said as he looked at the boarded up bars and pharmacies that line the main street of Bom Futuro, now a mining ghost town.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elio Takao Hayashi, president of the miner's cooperative, at the Bom Futuro tin mine. (James Brooke/The New York Times)
 
Map of Brazil, indicating Bom Futuro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PMAM3 (BOVESPA) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (72%); SIC3351 ROLLING, DRAWING, & EXTRUDING OF COPPER (72%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PARANAPANEMA SA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; BOM FUTURO (BRAZIL) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TIN; PRODUCTION; PRICES; INDUSTRY PROFILES TIN MINING (91%); TIN MARKETS (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); MINERAL MARKETS (77%); SURFACE MINING (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (74%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); MINE CLOSINGS (71%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (71%); SMUGGLING (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



8 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/September 25-30

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
 Salomon Gets a Little Help From Its Friends 

 If Warren E. Buffett, the interim chairman of Salomon Brothers Inc., has his way, the wolves in Solly's trading room will soon be dressed in wool. Mr. Buffett told them last week he prefers losses to violations of the rules. "If you lose money for the firm by bad decisions, I will be very understanding," he said. "If you lose reputation for the firm, I will be ruthless." That was enough to get Lawrence A. Tisch, the New York investor, to buy a big block of Solly's stock. And Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was also won over. He instructed the State Treasury and Urban Develpment Corporation to add Salomon to the list of firms that can bid on selling securities. Salomon still has a long way to go before it polishes its name. That too was underscored last week, when Moody's Investor Services slightly downgraded $13 billion of Solly's debt. But even with the change, Salomon's paper is superior to New York City's and most of corporate America's. That's not bad.
 
The Shape of Recession '91
 
At the beginning of the year, most economists were saying the recession would be "shallow and short." But this recession is shaping up to be at least as long as the one in 1982. The recession, according to the Commerce Department, continued at least through the second quarter, when the gross national product contracted by 0.1 percent. Though shallower than the 1982 recession, this one still packs a wallop. Profits fell by 1.6 percent in the second quarter. As economists furrowed their brows, investors seemed to celebrate; on Wall Street, sluggishness means interest rates are still falling. According to Gene J. Seagle, director of technical research for Gruntal & Company, a further drop "will help the economy enough to give companies better earnings." Such perverse logic helped lift the Dow Jones industrial average to a record 3,055.23 last week before closing at 3,043.60.

Some Cheer on the Horizon
 
For a glimpse of the future, the Commerce Department stands on its tiptoes with the aid of the index of leading economic indicators. On the horizon, it sees a pickup in economic activity. For July, the index jumped by 1.2 percent, the largest increase in three years. The index, which is a patchwork of 11 other statistical gauges, showed big gains in factory orders. Since it is designed to see six months into the future, the sharp rise in July could signal growth before the end of the year. Whether growth will be weak or strong the indicators still cannot predict.

Housing's Still Stalled
 
Housing often leads the economy out of recession. Buy a home and sooner or later you buy the finery to fill it. But if that's true, the economy still has a lot of languishing time. Sales of new homes -- the ones that need new refrigerators and drapes -- fell 8.5 percent in July after rising 4 percent in June, the Commerce Department said. And sales of existing homes -- the ones that already have fixtures -- fell 6.7 percent in July, according to the National Association of Relators. The recession has hurt home sales, but so has price. The association said the median price for a home climbed a full percentage point in June, meaning fewer people can afford to buy than at any time in the last 11 months.

Hot Times at the Factory
 
While most of the economy limps along, the nations' factories have strapped on their running shoes. Orders for manufactured goods rose by 6.2 percent in July, the Commerce Department said last week. That is the largest monthly gain in new orders since December 1970. Big-ticket durable items, like cars and airplanes, make up half the index. They shot up 10.7 percent in July.

Consumers Moody Again
 
Consumers account for two-thirds of all economic activity and when they are confident, they spend. That fuels growth. But last week the Conference Board, which surveys 5,000 homes and compiles a confidence index, reported that the consumer was turning moody. The Index fell to 76.3 in August, from 77.7 in July. That was the fourth decline in the index since the end of the Gulf War. "While many of the economic indicators suggest that a recovery is in progress, the evidence will not be convincing until there is a substantial improvement in consumers' spirits," said Fabien Linden, who directs the survey. What exactly is making the consumer feel blue? They fear their jobs are still in danger.

Pushing the (Silicon) Chip
 
To Washington's expert policy makers, it never mattered much if America exported computer chips or potato chips, as long as it exported. Potato chips are doing fine, thank you, but computer chips are another story. Much of the market has been lost to Japan. Last week a Government advisory committee of 90 (silicon) chip experts proposed a program to improve America's competitiveness in semiconductors. The program, called Micro Tech 2000, would accelerate the nation's design and manufacturing capabilities. It calls for pooling knowhow among producers. Though the report does not say how much Micro Tech 2000 would cost, it did say it would "require the efforts of hundreds of scientists and engineers for a number of years" -- which does not sound cheap. The Bush Administration, which must approve the plan, has a history of snubbing such measures. For the Administration, all chips are the same.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Placing the Blame in Germany
 
He may be an extinct volcano, but last week at his retirement party, Karl Otto Pohl, the former president of Germany's central bank, let out one more puff of smoke. Mr. Pohl told the gathering -- which included his successor at the Bundesbank, Helmut Schlesinger, and 900 other guests -- that Germany's inflation rate was far too high. Last July, it reached all of 4.4 percent, a rate considered enviable these days by even the Japanese. To dampen inflation, said Mr. Pohl, Germans must regain their discipline, especially with respect to wages. But the real culprit for the scary rise in Germany's inflation rate, Mr. Pohl said, was the poorly thought out way eastern Germany's devastated economy was joined to the very vigorous economy of the west. The architect of that plan, Chancellor Helmut Kohl, brushed off the debris from his vest and handed Mr. Pohl a medal of honor for his 11 years of service as head of the Bundesbank.
 
Nissan Thinks Electric
 
Detroit has a long history of unveiling nifty new "concept" cars that could solve big problems if they were ever built. (They almost never are). Last week, Japan's Nissan Motors did the same. Dubbed the FEV, for Future Electric Vehicle, Nissan's new car is all-electric. But what makes the FEV different are its batteries. They can be fully recharged in just 15 minutes instead of overnight. But analysts doubt the FEV will ever make it to the street. The car's nickel cadmium batteries are pricey and much more toxic than lead-acid batteries. They also require special electrical outlets to get recharged. "I don't think it's going to be something that will turn the electric vehicle world upside down," said Roberta Nichols, of the Ford Motor Company. So far, there's not much of a world to upset.

Not Much for Moscow
 
While the heros of the second (or is it third?) Russian revolution stood in front of the tanks at the Parliament building, the rest of the world pinched its pennies. President Bush and British Prime Minister John Major offered a little food while the World Bank approved a $30 million aid package. The bank's less-than-generous package -- about 8 cents for each Soviet citizen -- will not be used to buy goods but to pay for yet another study of what's wrong with the Soviet economy. To most observers, what's wrong is already pretty clear: The Soviets have no goods.

Amnesia in the Tokyo Market
 
First it was a series of embarrassing scandals that spread through Tokyo. Now it is amnesia. Setusya Tabuchi, the former chairman of Nomura Securities, told Parliament he could not remember the gangster who introduced him to Susumu Ishii, the man Nomura is accused of helping manipulate stocks. "I'm embarassed," Mr. Tabuchi said, "but up until yesterday I remembered his name, while today it does not seem to come to mind."
 
 
 
COMPANIES

 
Completing a Bailout
 
When the Executive Life Insurance Company of California went under earlier this year, most of its 372,000 policy holders figured their policies would be worthless. Then John Garamendi, the California Insurance Commissioner, deftly patched together a $3 billion deal to sell Executive Life and its assets to a group of French investors. But the deal only protected 81 percent of the value of most policies. Last week the insurance industry chipped in with $1 billion more to cover the remaining 19 percent of the losses. The money will be funneled through the National Organization of Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association, an industry group that protects policy holders against losses. The industry dipped into its pockets, said a spokesman for the organization, to restore the public's confidence.

More Woe for Chip Maker
 
The National Semiconductor Corporation, an old-line manufacturer of semiconductor chips, has too much manufacturing capapcity and too few customers. Last week it said it would take a $149.3 million charge against first quarter earnings for plant closings and reductions in staff. Last year it had to close plants and dismiss some 2,000 workers. Analysts say that they are expecting more layoffs to follow.

McDonnell's Risks
 
When McDonnell Douglas Inc. won the contract to build the C-17, the Air Force's nimble new cargo plane, little did it know it might cost the company its future. The contract calls for as many as 120 planes. If they are all built, it could be worth almost $40 billion. But the program is still in its infancy, and McDonnell must pay any costs over $6.6 billion. McDonnell does not have much cash, the Pentagon estimates its losses on the first phase are as high as $2.6 billion. McDonnell disputes the figures. Analysts think the trouble could weaken the nation's No. 1 weapons maker, perhaps putting it into bankruptcy..

Chrysler Will Buy Chryslers
 
The Chrysler Corporation's best innovations for 1992 may not be in its cars, but in its incentive plans. One plan commits Chrysler to buying a purchaser's car back within four years. But what will Chrysler do with all those used cars? That part of the plan has not been revealed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nissan's electric-powered car (Nissan); The C-17 from McDonnell Douglas. (McDonnell Douglas); Warren E. Buffett (Leslie Jean Bart/The New York Times)
 
Graphs track the percent change in private housing starts, July 1990-July 1991 (Source: Commerce Dept); monthly consumer confidence index, August 1990-August 1991 (Source: The Conference Board); the percent change in the G.N.P. during the 1981-82 and the 1990-91 recessions (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (91%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (64%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (79%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: KURTZMAN, JOEL WARREN BUFFETT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



9 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
When 'Real' Numbers Are Unreal

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
The recession that has now ended -- cross your fingers as you read this -- was worse than either of the past two big recessions.
That statement is absurd by the conventional measure used by economists, that of "real" economic growth. By that standard, this recession was a mild one. The second quarter gross national product level was just 1.1 percent lower than the peak quarter, the third quarter of last year. By contrast, the peak-to-trough falls in the previous two downturns were 4.4 percent in 1974-75 and 3.4 percent in 1981-82. 
 But there is another sense in which this recession was worse, one that in some ways is more real than the "real" figure. That is in terms of the dollars actually spent, before worrying about inflation. By that standard, this economy almost never stops growing, and did not in this recession. The G.N.P. in "nominal" dollars, to use the jargon, rose 1.8 percent over the past three quarters, well under the rises in previous recessions.
Nominal numbers fell into disrepute in the days of high inflation, and indeed they distorted the picture then. But in some ways now it is the real figures that are unreal. As Ray Dalio, an economist at Bridgewater Associates, put it, "businesses live and die by nominal growth." It is nominal dollars that companies collect from customers, and it is nominal dollars that they use to pay bills.
For American business, this is an inconvenient time for nominal G.N.P. growth to be lagging. When businesses added more and more debt in the 1980's, they were placing an implicit bet on inflation continuing, so that they would be taking in more dollars to pay back the debt.
Unfortunately, nominal growth has been slowing for years. Since 1965, the two-year rate of nominal G.N.P. has fallen below 10 percent only once, when it hit 9.6 percent just after the end of the 1981-82 recession. Now it stands at 8.5 percent.
The sustained low growth in nominal G.N.P. helps to explain why this downturn has resulted in so many bank and business failures, and why they may continue even after the recovery comes. Inflation can cover up a lot of mistakes by borrowers, and the lack of it can make those errors seem much larger.
Last week, the bond market rallied as the Government cut its estimates of economic activity in the second quarter and speculation of a new easing by the Federal Reserve grew. That helped share prices rally to records in midweek, on the assumption that the Fed will get business moving and profits rising.
It is possible, as the post-1983 experience shows, for nominal growth to take off, even in a period of falling inflation. In essence, that is the bullish case right now. Count Mr. Dalio as a bear. He argues that growth comes from credit, and that America has too much debt already. He sees a sustained period of low nominal growth and a long period in which bonds perform better than stocks.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 3.35, to 3,043.60, tracks the Dow Jones average, Aug. 23-30, 1991; "In 'Real' Terms, a Mild Recession ... " tracks percent decline in real G.N.P. from economic peak to recession trough, showing for periods '74-5, '81-2 and '90-1; "... But a Bad One in 'Nominal Terms," tracks percent change in nominal G.N.P. from economic peak to recession trough, for periods '74-5, '81-2 and '90-1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STATISTICS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BONDS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD RAY DALIO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



10 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Not a Very Good Year, Looking at Volume

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
It was light in August -- all year, in fact, in terms of market volume.
Outside the United States market, trading volume so far this year has been anemic. Hardest hit is Japan, where market scandals have combined with doubts about the pace of economic recovery to drive market volume down more than 38 percent since the first of the year, said Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates, a market research firm in New York. 
 In Germany, an ebbing of the euphoria over the demolition of the Berlin wall in December 1989 has curbed market activity. Even in the London market, which has been setting new highs, trading volume has increased only modestly. "That suggests that the market's strength has come as a real surprise to people," Mr. Birinyi said.
All told, "the United States has had the largest volume increases of any market in the world, despite brokers' lamentations," he said. That's the good news; the bad news, he added, is that the resulting level of activity is still "not keeping the phones busy."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Prices and Trading Fall Out of Step," shows percent change in prices since January and year-to-date volume compared with 1990 (through August), for Japan, Germany, Britain and the U.S. (Source: Birinyi Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (55%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



11 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
Indian Gaming Head

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
When the Bush Administration approached him in 1989, Anthony J. Hope did not quite see the virtue of taking a job running one of the newest Federal agencies, the National Indian Gaming Commission. It was an agency, conceived in controversy during the Reagan Administration, that had languished without champion, chief or staff.
"I was trying to turn it down," he said. But the 51-year-old Mr. Hope, a lawyer, was finally intrigued by the chance to build an agency from scratch. Confirmed in May, 1990, he is charged with overseeing the gambling enterprises of American Indian tribes. 
 Until recently, that would most likely have meant small-potatoes gaming. In recent years, however, several tribes have moved into high-stakes casino gambling. The result: an industry worth roughly $1.4 billion annually and howls of pain from the traditional gaming business, which is feeling its own recession.
The gambling industry's opposition to competition from the tribes has softened what might have been a negative response to the new commission from the American Indian community, which is usually wary of Federal agencies.
"We began to work with the Federal Government to protect ourselves," said Leonard L. Prescott, chairman of the National Indian Gaming Association and tribal chairman of the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux of Minnesota. "It looked for a while as if the ability of Indians to do gaming was going to be taken away."
Mr. Leonard said the appointment of Mr. Hope, who is not an American Indian and had no experience with gaming or "Indian country," was viewed with concern. But Mr. Hope has won some credibility. "He is making an effort to develop reservation economies," Mr. Prescott said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Casino proposed for Ledyard, Conn. (New England Design)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INDIAN GAMING COMMISSION

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INDIAN GAMING COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GAMING (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CASINOS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (75%); 

PERSON: HOPE, ANTHONY J; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



12 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Julian Lerner's Lessons of the 30's

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
While many managers of mutual funds cut their teeth on the 1980's bull market, Julian A. Lerner says his investment style was shaped by the Great Depression and World War II.
Mr. Lerner, who has run the Houston-based AIM Charter Fund for nearly a quarter-century, manages the fund defensively to avoid big losses. But this has not prevented him from thriving in bull markets. 
 For the five years that ended on June 30, Charter earned an average annual return of 13.5 percent, compared with a rise of 8.7 percent for all growth-and-income funds, which invest mainly in dividend-paying stocks. Over 15 years, Charter's annual return averaged 18.2 percent, compared with 13 percent for its competitors. And the fund rose 8.2 percent in last year's difficult market, making it one of a handful of stock funds to post gains in 1990, according to Morningstar Inc., mutual fund consultants in Chicago.
Morningstar has called Mr. Lerner, who is 66 years old, "the most underappreciated mutual fund manager in America." But investors are catching on. Fund assets have soared to $290 million today from $123 million at the end of 1990. Mr. Lerner and his family, including his three grandchildren, own the largest stake in the fund.
He says the infusion of money this year makes his work less stressful -- "no need to worry about having cash to meet redemptions." He is buying stocks every day and has increased the fund's total holdings from the usual 35 or 40 stocks to 53 today.
Mr. Lerner and his 26-year-old assistant, Lanny Sachnowitz, invest mainly in big, widely known companies with strong growth rates, using rising dividends as a yardstick. Most stocks owned by the fund pay dividends that have grown steadily for at least five years. Bristol-Myers Squibb, for one, has increased its dividend payments more than 15 percent annually for the last 18 years.
As a growth-and-income fund, Charter attempts to offer a steady yield, mainly from dividend-paying stocks, without giving up the chance for handsome appreciation in securities prices. Mr. Lerner's normal goal for the fund is a yield of 2.5 percent. In 1991, however, as share prices have zoomed higher faster than companies have raised their dividends, he expects a yield of only 2 percent.
During the Depression, when Mr. Lerner was a boy, he saw well-dressed people coming to his family's door in Galveston, Tex., for handouts. The experience made him determined to avoid significant losses in the fund and shaped his second yardstick: sell any stock that drops 20 percent or so from its high point. He has not taken a loss of more than 23 percent since 1974, he says.
He admits that this principle led to some mistakes in last year's volatile market, but he also says, "I've never owned a stock that's gone broke." The fund's turnover was 100 percent in 1990, although he prefers a slower-paced 50 percent.
While many fund managers now come to their jobs fresh from business school, Mr. Lerner took a more circuitous route. He dropped out of the University of Texas in 1942, at the age of 18, to enlist in the Army. He served in the infantry in Alsace-Lorraine.
When the war was over, he earned a law degree and opened a small practice handling divorce, custody and criminal cases. Unhappy with the work, he joined the legal department of the Great America Corporation, which managed a small mutual fund. When the company split up in 1966, Mr. Lerner and some backers bought the management company that ran the fund, which was called the Life Insurance Stock Fund. That experience taught him the value of diversified investing.
He set up the Charter Fund in November 1968 with four insurance companies, merged the two funds and ultimately bought out his partners for what he calls "a small amount" in 1979. In 1985, he sold his company to the AIM Group, where he has worked since.
Over the years, he learned that stocks can rise higher than he had dared to dream. "That's why equities are the place to be, even for conservative investors," he said.
What does a man who has seen all manner of economic times think of today's stock market? "I'm not wildly bullish, but I'm not negative either," he said. The reasons: "Usually there's more optimism at the top of a market than we see now, and there could be more cuts in the prime rate."
Right now, the fund's largest industry sectors are pharmaceuticals (13 percent), banks (9.5 percent), foods (8 percent) and chemicals (6 percent).
The fund's largest holding is Pfizer, the New York-based pharmaceutical company, which Mr. Lerner says "has more products in its pipeline than any other company, paricularly for its size."
The second-largest holding is Gillette, which Mr. Lerner says has captured almost the entire razor market, especially overseas. Next is Campbell Soup, whose new chief executive has significantly increased earnings. Then comes Merck, the drug maker, which he calls a "premier growth company."
The fund owns a sizable chunk of J. P. Morgan, which Mr. Lerner calls one of the few remaining "great banks." He predicts a bright future for the banks that survive the current shakeout. The fund also owns BankAmerica, Banc One and Norwest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julian A. Lerner of AIM Charter (AIM Capital Management)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (88%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AIM CHARTER FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIM CHARTER FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); TEXAS, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BONDS (78%); WORLD WAR II (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); 

PERSON: LERNER, JULIAN A; GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



13 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: A Hotel Is Not a Home

 BODY:
The revelation that New York City officials are secretly booking homeless families into commercial hotels at up to $100 a night is surely cause for alarm. This desperate tactic suggests that the homeless problem is getting worse, not better, and that government programs at all levels still fall miserably short.
After a dramatic decline in 1989 and 1990, the number of homeless families in the city's shelter system has risen sharply, in part because of the recession. A year ago, some 3,450 families lived in temporary apartments while waiting for a permanent home. The figure is now up to 4,750, 450 short of the 1987 record. 
 The number of families in the city's infamous welfare hotels, intended for short-term stays, has also shot up. Several years ago, 3,700 families lived in squalid hotel rooms, for which the city and the Federal Government paid an appalling $1,800 a month. But when Washington threatened to stop paying its share for any family remaining more than 30 days, the Koch administration adopted a two-year plan to provide alternatives. It built new "Tier II" residences with more space and rehabilitated city-owned apartments.
This program, pressed by Mayor Dinkins, temporarily paid off. The number of families in hotels dropped below 150 by August 1990. Now it's back up to 750. Most live in a dozen hotels devoted largely to the homeless. But with these hotels filled, officials are flipping through the Yellow Pages to find commercial hotel rooms to handle the overflow. Ominously, the overflow may soon become a tidal wave. The city is under court orders to end the use of hotels entirely by Sept. 30. It also faces another threat from Washington to stop paying its share of the bill for temporary shelter.
Despite its genuine concern, the Dinkins administration may have inadvertently aggravated he problem. Roughly 100,000 families are living doubled up with friends and relatives. For some, the quickest route to permanent shelter has been to endure a few months in a hotel, waiting for a place of their own in public housing.
Mr. Dinkins decided to short-circuit this process by setting aside 1,000 rehabilitated apartments for doubled-up families in a program known as Alternative Pathways. But that well-meaning effort to keep people out of the shelter system may also have made it harder for others to leave it.
Government at all levels can help ease the crisis. To stay the Sept. 30 court order and delay the threatened cutoff of Federal funds, the city will need a well-defined timetable for pressing ahead with Tier II shelters and more rehabilitated housing. Albany could help by enlarging housing allowances for welfare families. The allowance for a family of three is now $286 a month, hardly enough to find livable space.
Washington could help by showing patience and continuing to finance temporary shelter while New York continues with its brave effort to build more permanent housing. Of even greater benefit, of course, would be a large new infusion of federally sponsored low-income housing. That probably isn't in the cards. Even so, it should now be clear that combing the Yellow Pages for temporary shelter is no solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; WELFARE (US); FEDERAL AID (US); EDITORIALS FAMILY (94%); HOMELESSNESS (92%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



14 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Choosing to Live Pleasantly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Paul Leinberger and Bruce Tucker's article on the differences in attitude between members of the present generation and their parents is full of confusions, probably a reflection of the confused minds of the young people they interviewed. 
 Today's employees disdain organizational loyalty; they cynically job-hop from one company to another. They're "ferociously competitive," yet they're "less competitive and more cooperative." Finally, there's confusion over how much work they will do. "It is not that they do not want to work," the authors report. "They want to work differently" -- that is, they want more time for family, personal pursuits and community activities.
Certainly many of us of William H. Whyte's generation longed for a better balance between commitment, competitiveness and work. What is bothersome is that the organizations we worked for held their own against international competition, while American corporations today generally do not.
It seems the present generation is choosing to live pleasantly rather than competitively. I don't argue with their choice, but let them be clear over the consequences: a steadily declining status for their organizations in the world's economic pecking order.
 
HERVIE HAUFLER
Grantham, N.H., Aug. 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: ORGANIZATION MAN, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); 

PERSON: HAUFLER, HERVIE; LEINBERGER, PAUL; TUCKER, BRUCE; WHYTE, WILLIAM H

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



15 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Industry Fails as Cure-All for Western China

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: QIAPUQIA, China, Aug. 30

 BODY:
While the newly prosperous residents of China's coastal towns build lavish brick homes and dream of sending their children to graduate school abroad, the still-poor inhabitants of western China patch their mud huts and sometimes think of an education as merely an optional extra that in any case ends in the fifth or sixth grade.
Life in the hamlets of western China, like this one in Qinghai Province, is clearly getting better, and it is now common to see television antennas sprouting from mud-wall villages. But the pace of development is far slower here than in eastern China. 
 "The gap between east and west is widening," said Wang Xueren, an expert on Gansu Province who joined about 70 officials and development specialists this week at a meeting in this small town to discuss ways of raising living standards in western China.
In one indication of the remoteness of the region, the conference, which attracted about a half dozen Americans, is the first international gathering ever held in Qinghai Province.
As many of the speakers noted, the lag in western China is of special concern because the region is largely inhabited by ethnic minorities. In the northwest are Muslims of Turkic origin, while here and farther south are Tibetans. Next to Tibet is Yunnan Province, with a profusion of other minorities. Though the issue went unstated, it was clearly on everyone's mind that there have been calls for independence in Tibetan and Muslim areas, and that the widening gap between east and west could worsen political unrest.
Chinese experts at the conference, which was sponsored by a branch of the Agriculture Ministry and financed in part by the American-based International Fund for the Development of Tibet, called for a new approach in dealing with the west.
"In the past, we've emphasized growth of economic output as the criterion of development in western China," said Cao Zhenghai, a researcher for the Communist Party in Inner Mongolia. "In fact, this kind of output increase has little relationship to the progress of nationalities."
"The strategy needs to be changed," said He Daofeng, a specialist in rural development from Beijing. Like other speakers, he said more effort must be made to protect the environment and to involve local people in projects that will do more than simply raise the region's industrial output.
The harm caused by misplaced efforts to promote development is reflected in the grasslands around the nearby Longyang hydropower station on the Yellow River. Conceived and financed by the central Government in Beijing, the project has helped alleviate the electricity shortage in western China. But the huge reservoir has also lowered temperatures slightly and led to winds that are now eroding the nearby grasslands. The result is that the desert is eating up the prairies relied upon by local herdsmen.
Many point out that Beijing's policy of setting fixed low prices for natural resources has subsidized eastern Chinese industry and consumers at the expense of the west.
Phunkhang Goranangpa, president of the International Fund for the Development of Tibet, said the Government enterprises set up in minority areas do not always help local people. They sometimes rely on imported workers and harm the environment, leaving residents worse off than before.

GRAPHIC: Map of China indicating Qiapuqia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); QINGHAI, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (73%); GANSU, CHINA (58%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (58%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: INNER MONGOLIA EERDUOSI (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; QIAPUQIA (CHINA) CHINA (98%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); QINGHAI, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (73%); GANSU, CHINA (58%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (58%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CHILDREN (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); RELIGION (87%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ETHNICITY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); TRENDS (69%); POWER PLANTS (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (63%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); POWER FAILURES (60%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



16 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: 50 Years After Pearl Harbor, Reconciliation Is Still Elusive

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Aug. 31

 BODY:
When the solemn observances of the 50th anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor are over this Dec. 7, the American survivors will hold a final banquet at the Sheraton Waikiki Hotel. The hotel is owned by a Japanese company, Kokusai Kogyo of Tokyo.
This circumstance underscores the powerful cross-currents pulling at Hawaii as it prepares to commemorate that infamous day at a time when the Japanese have achieved with yen what their fathers could not with bombs. 
 High hopes that the observance would begin a new era of cooperation have now turned into fears of an entirely different outcome.
 
'Years of Pain and Hatred'
 Some people are demanding that Japan apologize. Some worry that the ceremonies will intensify anti-Japanese sentiments in this country and anti-America feelings in Japan. Some fear a backlash against Asian-Americans that could drive away the Japanese tourists who are a mainstay of the Hawaiian economy.
Others hope bygones can at last be bygones. "Fifty years of pain and hatred is long enough," said Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, a Japanese-American, said at a dinner held last week by the Japan-America Society of Honolulu. "The time has come for reconciliation."
That Mr. Inouye, a Democrat who lost his right arm as an American soldier fighting in Italy, should have to issue such a plea served only to emphasize the tense state of Japanese-United States relations today.
Neither government appears willing to use the Pearl Harbor ceremonies to grapple with the issues that divide them. In July the Bush Administration, under pressure from veterans groups, said no official foreign guests would be invited to the Pearl Harbor events, thereby avoiding the painful matter of whether to invite the Japanese. The Japanese have been silent, saying the question of how Pearl Harbor is remembered is strictly an internal American issue.
The anniversary comes at a time when the economies of the two countries are more intertwined than ever, but when tensions and resentments are greater than at anytime since the end of the war in 1945, largely because of disputes over trade and investment.
 
Complex Contradictions
 Nowhere are the contradictions between the nations more pointed or complex than here in Hawaii, where the economy is closely tied to Japan. Indeed, as planners sought a site for the final Pearl Harbor observance, they could hardly avoid using one with Japanese ties: Nearly every hotel in Honolulu large enough for the event is owned by Japanese interests.
As the commemoration draws closer, survivors are coming forward with harrowing memories of the attack, the fearsome blasts and the mangled and burned bodies. The early-morning air raid left 2,403 Americans dead, 21 ships sunk or damaged and 188 aircraft destroyed, and drew the United States into the war that ended with the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki three years and eight months later.
Richard I. Fiske, a Marine bugler on the battleship West Virginia, still recalls seeing a Japanese pilot's smiling face as he veered off after delivering a bomb to the nearby battleship Arizona, which was sunk with the loss of 1,177 sailors and marines. "For years I dreamt about it," said Mr. Fiske, who is now 70 years old. "I can still see that smile."
Passions still run high among many of the American survivors. "We did not invite the Japanese 50 years ago and we don't want them now," said Gerald Glaubitz, the national president of the Pearl Harbor Survivors Association who is Mayor of Morningside, Md. "This is our own thing. We've been planning for almost five years. I've had widows call me and say, 'You mean they are going to invite the people who killed my husband?' "
Such sentiments have been a source of discomfort to Hawaii's political and business leaders, who hope the events focus not just on a painful past but also on a hopeful future of cooperation.
"Pearl Harbor was very prominent in our history," said Adm. Ron Hays, retired, a former commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command who was appointed by Gov. John Waihee 3d as chairman of a special committee to review the events. "But we are also talking about a strong ally. Our economy and security are interdependent. We both stand for democracy and freedom. So I would hope to see a balanced program to pay tribute to those who lost their lives and also look ahead."
In March, Governor Waihee, a Democrat, led a promotional delegation of Hawaiian business and tourism leaders to Japan. "Pearl Harbor was of great interest to them," said Carolyn Tanaka, his press secretary. "That is a concern to us. Tourism is our No. 1 industry. The Governor reassured them they are always welcome."
 
Request for an Apology
 The debate has been fanned in recent weeks by Honolulu's pugnacious Mayor, Frank F. Fasi. He has suggested the Japanese apologize for Pearl Harbor and then be invited to attend the ceremonies. That brought a testy retort from some Japanese politicians, who said the United States should apologize for the atomic bombings.
In a move rich with symbolism, Takashi Hiraoka, the Mayor of Hiroshima, visited Honolulu this week and laid a wreath at the Arizona Memorial.
For the Japanese, the events present a delicate problem in a state where heavy Japanese investment in real estate has stirred resentment in recent years. At the Japanese consulate just five miles from where Japanese bombers once rained bombs, Consul General Masaji Takahashi chose his English words carefully.
"Who should be invited is a matter to be decided by the American side," said Mr. Takahashi, who was born in 1937 and has no memory of the momentous events of 1941. "The expatriate Japanese here are rather uncomfortable. The feeling is that this may be the start of Japan bashing."
He added, "Fundamentally, the relationship will not be damaged, but there is a certain worry."
 
Four Days of Events
 From 6,000 to 10,000 survivors and their families are expected here for the four days of official events. They are scheduled to begin Dec. 4 and culminate with a solemn ceremony at the Arizona memorial at 7:55 A.M. on Dec. 7, the exact hour the Japanese aerial attack began. President Bush plans to attend the session, on his way home from a trip to Japan. The events are being organized by the Navy and the National Park Service, which maintains the memorial.
Today it is hard to believe that Pearl Harbor, just west of downtown Honolulu, was once the scene of such devastation. About 4,000 visitors a day pass through the museum on shore and then take a Navy barge to the memorial that straddles the sunken remains of the Arizona.
Greeting the visitors are a handful of aging survivors of the attack like Mr. Fiske, the Marine bugler, and Robert Kinzler, who was a 19-year-old Army radio operator from Irvington, N.J., in 1941.
The sharp edges of bitterness have worn off over the years for Mr. Fiske, at least. About a month ago, a Japanese tourist of his own generation put his hand on Mr. Fiske's shoulder, said in halting English "I am so sorry," and broke into tears.
"The war's over now," Mr. Fiske said. "Besides, my daughter married a Japanese boy, so what can I do?"
 
A General Ignorance
 Mr. Kinzler, now 69 and a resident of Hawaii, complained that younger Japanese visitors seemed as ignorant as young Americans about the events. But he says they are very respectful; he surmises many lost relatives in the war.
School children in Hawaii are first introduced to the bombing of Pearl Harbor in the 10th grade as part of their regular study of United States history. The emphasis is no different from that of schools on the mainland. But Hawaiian public schools have recently begun stressing civil rights issues stemming from the internment of Japanese-Americans during the war.
No group is more nervous about the anniversary than Americans of Japanese Ancestry, or A.J.A.'s as they say here, who make up about 23 percent of the Hawaiian population. Unlike German-Americans or Italian-Americans, the A.J.A.'s went to extraordinary lengths after the war to break from their homeland, sometimes even burning photos and family records. Thousands were interned during the war.
"The whole event raises a myriad of issues between the U.S. and Japan," said William M. Kaneko, president of the Japanese American Citizens League, a civil rights group that claims 26,000 members nationwide. "We recognize Japan bombed Pearl Harbor and people died and we should be respectful of that. But we have a serious concern about the possibility of a backlash from people who don't distinguish between Japanese and A.J.A.'s."
For older A.J.A.'s in Hawaii, the memories are just as painful as for the Pearl Harbor veterans. Now 72, Tadao Beppu worked on the waterfront back then and was forced to wear a badge with a black border that restricted him from certain military areas. "I felt like the Jews in Germany," he said.
 
'Strictly American'
 Mr. Beppu later joined the Army and served in the famous all-Japanese 442d Regimental Combat Team that saw combat in Europe. He sat in the clubhouse of the 442d Veterans Club with its executive director, Robert M. Sasaki who was just as adamant as the Pearl Harbor survivors about Japanese participation. "Our country was attacked," he said. "It should be strictly American."
 
Financial Concerns
 If the A.J.A.'s are worried about racism, much of the rest of Hawaii is concerned about money. Japanese tourists constitute one fifth of all visitors to Hawaii and spend nearly five times as much Americans on average. More than 25,000 arrive each week and spend an estimated $825 million a year.
Their importance to the Hawaiian economy became all too clear last winter when the Japanese stayed away during the war in the Middle East, throwing hotels and restaurants into a slump. Hotel and tour operators fear that the Dec. 7 events, coming at the beginning of the high season, could prove damaging if the Japanese feel unwelcome.
The largest Japanese tour operator is the Japan Travel Bureau, which brings 270,000 Japanese a year.
Kenji Ito, the bureau's long-time director here, said: "Every time Dec. 7 comes I feel very bad. It is the same with Hiroshima. The only difference is that Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. We cannot get away from that.
"I understand the feeling of the war veterans, but at the same time many people here depend on the tourist industry for a living."
Jack R. Carreiro, a vice president of the Hawaii Visitors Bureau, the semi-official agency that promotes Hawaiian tourism, echoed these concerns. "No one is talking about what Hitler or Mussolini did. We don't want to relive the war. We must look forward, not backward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the ceremonies to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor draw closer, survivors are coming forward with memories of the attack. Richard I. Fiske, a Marine bugler on the battleship West Virginia, recalled seeing a Japanese pilot's smiling face as he veered off after delivering a bomb to the nearby battleship Arizona. Mr. Fiske stood outside the Arizona Memorial; William M. Kaneko, president of a Japanese-American civil rights group, said the anniversary event raises the possibility of backlash against all Asian Americans. (Photographs by Dean Sensui for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9234 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (58%); SIC8713 SURVEYING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (95%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: KOKUSAI KOGYO HOLDINGS CO LTD (58%); PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII); JAPAN; HAWAII UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); HAWAII, USA (95%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45); JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION WORLD WAR II (93%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); BURN INJURIES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); VETERANS (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (59%); TRADE DISPUTES (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT DANIEL INOUYE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



17 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Home of the Little League Struggles to Be Home of a Minor Team, Too

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WILLIAMSPORT, Pa.

 BODY:
For one week every August, this central Pennsylvania city is transformed into a baseball paradise, where the game's most gifted 12-year-olds gather for an international feast of competition and goodwill.
But Williamsport's connection to the national pastime runs deeper than the Little League World Series. Minor league baseball has been a part of life here for decades, a part of life that is now threatened by the economic realities of the game. 
 On Monday, the Williamsport Bills will play the Harrisburg Senators in what will likely be the last Double-A game held here. The franchise is leaving for Binghamton, N.Y., because its owner, the New York Mets, wants a new stadium, more fans and more money.
At a time when minor league franchises are profit-making ventures, Williamsport is a dinosaur. With a 65-year-old stadium and a population of 31,000, the birthplace of youth baseball has become an expendable outpost in the increasingly lucrative professional landscape.
"We can't generate the revenue the owners want these days," said Mayor Jessie Bloom of Williamsport. "They want brand-new facilities, and we just can't afford that."
Williamsport, where Little League was founded in 1939, has a rich minor league tradition. The city was one of six original members of the Eastern League in 1923, and its stadium, Bowman Field, is the second-oldest minor league park in the country.
 
Stars Played in Williamsport
 Babe Ruth brought an all-star team here, and Roger Maris once ran through Bowman's left-field fence. Nolan Ryan pitched three games for Williamsport as a 17-year-old, striking out 21 in one appearance.
But legacy doesn't erase the numbers. Owners want at least 200,000 in season attendance, and the best the sparsely populated Williamsport area can do is 100,000. Owners want $5 million stadiums built, and the best Williamsport can do is a $1 million renovation.
Nevertheless, Bill Pickelner, Williamsport's most prominent businessman, thinks his city should have Double-A ball. Pickelner, who owns oil and coal businesses and who has long been involved with minor league franchises, is calling out to his numerous friends in major league executive suites, hoping to find a believer.
"We deserve baseball," Pickelner said. "For this town to be out of baseball would be a disaster. It would also be a shame, considering the history of the game here."
Recent history suggests that Williamsport may indeed have to go on without the game. After a steady run from 1923, the city endured a 10-year stretch without baseball before it secured Cleveland's Double-A team in 1987. But Cleveland stayed for only two years. Seattle came in next, and its team, too, remained for just two seasons.
Seattle's defection would have marked the end of Double-A ball in Williamsport, if not for a Mets deal gone sour. New York had decided to move its franchise from Jackson, Miss., to Binghamton for the 1991 season, after Binghamton officials made a promise the Jackson people couldn't make: a new stadium.
 
Providing a Safety Net
 Shortly after announcing its intentions, New York learned that the Binghamton financing had come apart temporarily, leaving the Mets without a home for this season. Williamsport was the safety net.
By all accounts, the Mets told Williamsport officials right away that they would remain only until a new agreement could be reached in Binghamton. And after a state grant of $1.4 million and bank loans of $3.1 million were acquired for the construction of the Binghamton stadium, the Mets announced in June that they wouldn't be back in Williamsport.
Pickelner said Williamsport never had an opportunity to persuade the Mets to stay. He contended that the city could have raised more than $1 million for a stadium if the Mets acted as guarantors of the bank loans for the rest, as they did in Binghamton.
Gerry Hunsicker, the Mets' director of baseball operations, said that a new stadium in Williamsport was never a consideration. "But that was because the Mayor cut me off immediately on that," Hunsicker said. "She said it wasn't a possibility."
Conventional wisdom says that Monday's game will be the last reminder of a Double-A era that began 68 years ago, when the Eastern League was hardly a profitable entity.
So in this baseball paradise for kids, the question now is whether pro ball will be back at any level, or if it will vanish from the Susquehanna hills like the lumber companies, the steel mills and the millionaires.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; LITTLE LEAGUE NEW YORK METS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; LITTLE LEAGUE NEW YORK METS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WILLIAMSPORT (PA); BINGHAMTON (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (94%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



18 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: In Vermont Schools, Test on How Well Students Think Draws New Interest

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
As the nation's students return to classes, Vermont is expanding an experimental program in learning and evaluating mathematics and writing skills. Some experts believe the program may revolutionize testing and teaching in the United States.
The state's experience with the method is seen by many educators and lawmakers around the country as a preview of what could be in store for the nation if President Bush gets the national testing program he wants as part of his comprehensive education legislative package, America 2000. 
 Schools in New York City, Pittsburgh, Connecticut and California also are experimenting with the testing method, which involves evaluations of folders of a student's work that are compiled over time, including such components as multi-week investigations of complex math problems and drafts of essays. Interest in the method has been expressed by 35 states.
 
A Deeper Look at Skills
 Whatever form national testing takes, it will undoubtedly contain elements of this "portfolio" method, a complex, multi-faceted assessment that digs much deeper than the simple true-false and multiple-choice testing that most adults remember from their school days.
Advocates of the portfolio approach say it truly tests a student's ability to think and reason. Businesses have long expressed frustration with the level of skills in young people emerging from the American education system and have said that promoting such skills is necessary to keep America from falling behind in international competition.
Determining the applicability of portfolios in national testing has made Vermont the place to watch.
 
The Year's Results
 In June, Vermont completed the first year of its program, with 304 fourth and eighth graders participating at 138 schools. In assessments of portfolios from a sample of 48 schools the students were rated as good to excellent in writing, largely because of almost a decade of emphasis on a writing-process method used by the University of Vermont and others. But the students' performance in mathematics was found to be less than satisfactory.
Nonetheless, the state is committed to extending the experiment to all of its fourth and eighth graders, or 1,500 students, in the 1991-92 school year.
"My reaction about the portfolios is very positive," said Richard Mills, Vermont's Education Commissioner. "Clearly it works. We find that our students write well, some of them very well. In mathematics they have a long way to go. We concentrated on problem solving and mathematical communications and we found that our students are just not skilled problem solvers."
Because it is such a new concept, there still is debate about how to standardize scoring and on which standards to use in evaluating the student's portfolio of work.
"Vermont is the first state in the country to move to authentic assessment for all of its children in key subjects," said Dr. Dan Resnick, director of assessment development of the New Standards Project at the Learning, Research and Development Center in Pittsburgh and an advocate of the method. "Vermont is in a key leadership role." The standards project, which investigates how to set up standards for national testing and which standards to use, is co-sponsored by the National Center on Education and the Economy in Rochester.
The results of Vermont's mathematics assessment showed that the students did not have the sophisticated problem-solving skills that the workers of the 21st century will require.
For example, the mathematics portfolios were assessed using seven criteria, with four levels of performance for each criterion. Four of the seven criteria were related to problem solving and three to the communication of the results. Most of the students were shown to understand the problems. In the fourth grade, 71 percent of the students understood, and in the eighth grade, 88 percent did. But in evaluating the quality of the approaches or procedures used to solve problems, 47 percent of fourth graders and 50 percent of eighth graders were found to use effective strategies.
The proportions decline further when the question is whether the student is making reasoned decisions in solving the problems: 12 percent of fourth graders inferred correctly and with certainty as compared to 21 percent of eighth graders. And students almost completely failed to synthesize, or make generalizations, from their problem solving. Virtually no fourth graders made connections or applications from the problems they solved, and only 4 percent of eighth graders did so.
The mathematics ability of the Vermont students reflected the poor mathematics skills of most American students as reported in state-by-state comparisons made public by the National Assessment of Educational Progress in June. The Federal agency has produced surveys of students' performance for 20 years, but this was the first time it released state-by-state comparisons.
The method is not without critics. The portfolios require teachers to work more intensively with students and, for many, to make drastic changes in teaching style. They also require more interaction among parents, teachers and students because the student work is kept in school. And they require more training of teachers.
Ms. Pierce added that the portfolio system, particularly for mathematics, still left a lot of unanswered questions, especially on how the final scoring at the state level will be accomplished and how it will be reported.
Critics say that determining how to score portfolios uniformly is a major problem, as well as insuring that parents, teachers and principals do not correct student work to such a degree that the portfolio is not an accurate reflection of the student's skill.
Proponents of the tests contend that performance on conventional examinations can be used as checks to insure that the portfolio scoring is valid.
Another advocate of the method, Marc Tucker, says Vermont's experiment has begun to transform the method into a practical approach of refining the skills of American school children. "Vermont has shown that it can be done," said Mr. Tucker, president of the Rochester center. "They've done it not only from a technical standpoint, but have provided information that parents and people in policy positions find very useful."
And Vermont's experience has led to a number of inquiries from states interested in the method. Ramsay Selden, director of the state education assessment center for the Chief State School Officers, said more than 35 states had expressed interest in portfolios.
"It is really important to the public to see how these assessments are changing schools," said Mr. Selden. "What is happening is that quietly techniques are being developed to objectively score and rate these assessments. Portfolios are going to become much more the core of how we evaluate student work."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT UNITED STATES (97%); VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



19 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Says It Is Accepting European Peace Proposal

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Yugoslavia, Aug. 31

 BODY:
Serbia, Yugoslavia's largest republic, announced today that it was accepting a European Community plan to send foreign observers to oversee a cease-fire in Croatia and set up an arbitration commission to resolve the overall Yugoslav crisis.
"The basic elements of this document, which are the result of France's plan and support, are acceptable for Serbia," said Serbia's Foreign Minister, Vladislav Jovanovic, on Belgrade television tonight. "We consider that it is reasonable, balanced, and does not favor any one side." 
 Mr. Jovanovic rejected the European Community's charge that Serbia was fueling the conflict in separatist Croatia, which has pitted Croatian militias against ethnic Serbs there who oppose secession. The Foreign Minister said European Community officials were not recognizing the "culpability" of Croatia's armed forces.
Serbia for over a month has blocked attempts by the community and Croatia's government to send foreign observers to monitor several failed cease-fires in Croatia. A serious rise in the fighting throughout the separatist republic in the last week has brought sharp criticism from the 12 community nations and the United States.
 
Army Said to Side With Serbs
 This week a community envoy confirmed charges that the Yugoslav Army, which is led by a largely Serbian officer corps, was intervening on the side of the rebel Serbs in Croatia. The army insists it is acting only as a buffer between the Serbs and Croats.
Mr. Jovanovic said tonight that Serbia would accept foreign cease-fire observers so long as they are civilians.
In his attacks on the community's initiatives, Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, has always referred to foreign observers as "foreign troops" and said Serbia would never accept them on Yugoslav soil.
The Yugoslav Army is now the only key player in the Yugoslav crisis not to have announced a decision on the community proposal. Both Croatia and the Yugoslav federal Government approved the plan days ago.
The community gave all sides until Sunday to agree to a cease-fire, allow foreign observers to monitor compliance, and arrange peace talks. They threatened unspecified sanctions against any party that did not agree to the plan.
Before the Serbian announcement tonight, fighting flared again today in Croatia.
In the Danube River town of Osijek, in the ethnically mixed farmlands of eastern Croatia, skirmishes with automatic weapons were reported through much of the day. The long siege of the river city of Vukovar also continued, with pounding from Yugoslav Army artillery, from gunboats on the Danube River and from Serbian rebel units.
In the Serbian stronghold of Knin, on the tip of Croatian land touching the Adriatic, the Serbian-controlled radio reported that rebel Serbs had repelled a Croatian police force controlling the mountainous national park at Plitvice. But the report could not be independently confirmed.
 
Clash at Zagreb Airport
 Zagreb, Croatia's capital, was unusually tense. Croatian officials closed the airport to civilian traffic after army troops fired on Croatian policemen who approached two civilian aircraft that had earlier been forced to land by Yugoslav fighters.
The press agency Tanyug later reported that one of the aircraft -- a civilian Air Uganda jet forced down while en route to another separatist republic, Slovenia -- was found to have 19 tons of rifles, ammunition and anti-tank guns on board. The second plane was allowed to depart after a search.
[A senior Croatian government official quoted by The Associated Press said it appeared that some Croatian police officers died or were hurt when their vehicle was hit by a tank or artillery during the airport clash.]
In Zagreb's old town, the Croatian President, Franjo Tudjman, met through the day with his government's officials. In a televised interview this evening, Mr. Tudjman gave no indication that Croatia intended to widen hostilities, which he said had already claimed more than 308 lives on the Croatian side.
"I think that a peaceful end to all of this is possible," he said, "and that those who started this aggression against Croatia will be forced to have talks to end the aggression."
 
Return to Barracks Demanded
 Mr. Tudjman warned earlier this month that Croatia would in effect declare war on Yugoslavia if the national army units in his republic were not ordered back to their barracks and if the rebel Serbs who have brought large areas of Croatia under their control were not brought to heel by tonight.
Analysts in Yugoslavia doubt that Mr. Tudjman can risk taking on the larger and better-armed national army.
In the two months since Slovenia, Yugoslavia's wealthiest republic, declared independence, and Croatia, the second most wealthy, said it would initiate steps toward "disassociation" from this multi-ethnic country, more than 300 people have been killed, 140,000 people have fled their homes, federal authority has collapsed and the economy is in a shambles.
Croatia's leaders argue they are fighting simply to maintain control over their territory. Serbia insists it is not seeking to annex Croatian land, but defending what it says are the endangered 600,000 ethnic Serbs residing in Croatia.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Croatian soldier resting yesterday in Laslova, Yugoslavia, after fighting flared up once again. The Republic of Serbia later accepted a European Community cease-fire initiative, which has already been accepted by the separatist government of strife-torn Croatia. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Yugoslavia indicating Croatia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA) SERBIA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE WAR & CONFLICT (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; JOVANOVIC, VLADISLAV

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



20 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Bias in House Hunting by Minorities

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31

 BODY:
Black and Hispanic house-hunters encounter discrimination -- from slammed doors to higher prices -- half the time they try to rent or buy a house, a Government-sponsored nationwide survey has found.
"We were very distressed by the high incidence of discrimination," said Margery Turner of the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington. The institute conducted the survey with Syracuse University for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 Ms. Turner, deputy research director for the project, said the survey found that Hispanic people looking for housing face nearly the same level of discrimination that blacks encounter in the housing market.
The researchers estimated that blacks face discrimination 56 percent of the time they try to rent a house, and 59 percent of the time they try to buy one. The figures for Hispanic house-hunters were 50 percent and 56 percent, respectively.
 
Overt and Subtle Practices
 Types of discrimination range from fairly rare instances of being told that an advertised housing unit is not available to more subtle and widespread practices of being shown fewer homes than whites, being charged more for rentals, being given less information on mortgages or being "steered" to predominantly minority neighborhoods.
The survey consisted of 3,800 audits, or paired tests, in 25 metropolitan areas. Typically, a white tester posed as a customer interested in buying or renting a home. Black or Hispanic testers, characterized as being of the same income or educational levels, inquired about the same housing. Their treatments were then compared.
The survey was conducted in the spring and summer of 1989. Survey officials attributed the delay in making the results public to the difficulty in assembling and analyzing the data and coordinating the findings with the housing department.
These were some of the findings:
*Eight percent of black and Hispanic home buyers were denied a chance to meet with a real estate agent or were told nothing was available, even though units were shown to whites. The figures rose to 15 percent for blacks and 12 percent for Hispanic people trying to rent housing.
*Black renters were shown 18 percent fewer units and were recommended 48 percent fewer units. Hispanic renters were shown 8 percent fewer units than white renters, and 25 percent fewer units were recommended.
*Nearly one-fourth of both black and Hispanic renters faced less favorable terms, like higher rents or higher fees for parking or utilities.
*Twenty-one percent of both black and Hispanic house-hunters encountered agents who tried to steer a potential buyer or renter to an area with a higher minority population or lower per capita income and house values.
John Yinger, professor of economics and public administration at Syracuse who was the research director of the survey, said only minor variations were found among different cities and regions. "I was struck by how few significant differences there were," Mr. Yinger said. "There is discrimination almost everywhere you go."
The practices documented in the study, including denying the availability of housing, quoting less favorable conditions and steering, have been illegal since the late 1960's, when Congress enacted the fair housing law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



21 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Vast Influence of Procter & Gamble Revives Old Questions in Cincinnati

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Aug. 29

 BODY:
From its twin towers marking the start of downtown to the corporate-subsidized flowerpots that brighten the sidewalks, the imprint of the Procter & Gamble Company on this city is as strong as a Pete Rose slide into second base.
Until this summer, few people here questioned the company's influence in the city where it was founded, in 1837. But the news that the Cincinnati police had conducted an electronic search of all telephone records in the metropolitan area at the behest of Procter & Gamble to help stop news disclosures brought to the surface an old but seldom-discussed complaint. 
 Who but Procter & Gamble, critics said, could get such help from the police? If a sandwich shop made a similar request, would the police search records from 803,000 business and home phones, as they did in this case, to investigate a misdemeanor?
 
Company Influence Widespread
 "It is outrageous that a local corporation can use our police department like it's their own private detective force," said Tyrone Yates, a member of the Cincinnati City Council.
Some business and civic leaders here pointed to the episode as evidence that this prosperous Ohio River city of 385,000 is a company town, an accusation that most of Cincinnati's leading citizens seem to reject. But the company does have extraordinary influence in the city -- in the arts, education, politics and government -- that shows up in dozens of ways.
"In one sense, if you've hurt Procter & Gamble, you've hurt Cincinnati," said Greg Burgess, an analyst with the Greater Cincinnati Center for Economic Education at the University of Cincinnati. The center, like most institutions here, receives some money from Procter & Gamble. "People in Cincinnati take pride in P.&G. in the same way they do with Cincinnati Reds."
Procter & Gamble, which makes toothpaste, diapers, detergent and hundreds of other consumer products, had $27 billion in sales last year. The company went to the police for assistance in stopping unauthorized disclosures to a reporter for The Wall Street Journal because it was trying to protect its shareholders, company officials said.
The police investigation, based on an Ohio law that makes it a crime for a person to divulge certain types of "confidential matter or information" to people outside a company, has proved inconclusive, the authorities say. But a backlash, a civic soul-searching, has developed in its aftermath.
"The use of taxpayer money to invade the privacy of just about every person in the region is, at best, heavy-handed," said an editorial two weeks ago in The Cincinnati Post. "After years of working to improve its reputation as a corporate bully and impenetrable fortress, this incident paints that picture all over again."
This 203-year-old city, with its quiet neighborhoods and fine old stone buildings, finds itself once again at the center of a clash between constitutional liberties and local concerns.
The last such episode brought the city the kind of publicity civic leaders dread. Last year the city's Contemporary Arts Center and its director were charged with obscenity for displaying the photographs of Robert Mapplethorpe that depicted sadomasochistic acts between men. Both the director and the gallery were acquitted. Although Procter & Gamble officals said they are no longer pursuing criminal action against whomever spoke to the reporter involved, Cincinnati's police chief, Lawrence Whalen, said the investigation is not yet over. The Hamilton County prosecutor's office, which obtained a subpoena for the police to search the record for all calls made within two area codes to the reporter, now seems to be trying to distance itself from the investigation.
"We assisted them in getting a subpoena and that's as far as we went with it and as far as we intend to go with it," said Terry Gaines, the first assistant prosecutor for Hamilton County, which covers Cincinnati.
Procter & Gamble officials have said the investigation was prompted by two articles in The Wall Street Journal in June. The articles, about a pending resignation of an executive, and the possible sale of a division, were written by Alecia Swasy, who is based in Pittsburgh. She quoted unidentified current and former company employees.
Under a 1974 Ohio law, it is a misdemeanor for an employee of a company to "furnish or disclose confidential matter or information" to "any person not privileged to acquire it."
 
Law Surprises the Experts
 Many legal experts, inside and outside of Ohio, were surprised that such a law was on the books. They said it appears to violate First Amendment protection of free speech. Edward Fletcher, a law professor at the University of Cincinnati who specializes in trade law, said he had never heard of anyone in Ohio being prosecuted under the law. It was intended to stop business secrets from getting into the hands of competitors, he said.
Two subpoenas, one issued on June 17, the other on June 24, ordered the Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company to turn over the numbers of all people in two area codes, 513 in Ohio and 606 in neighboring Kentucky, who may have called Ms. Swasy at her home, office or fax number in Pittsburgh in a three-month period. About 20 names were given to the police, said Chief Whalen.
The police detective who conducted the investigation, Gary Armstrong, also works for Procter & Gamble part time, which added to the criticism that the lines between the public interest and a company's interest had been blurred. Mr. Armstrong did not return phone calls for comment.
Edwin L. Artzt, the P.&G. chairman and chief executive, said in a statement, "There is no impropriety here but I am concerned about the appearance."
He went on, "We have not influenced this investigation in any way."
Procter & Gamble employs about 13,400 people in the Cincinnati area. It is not the biggest employer -- the General Electric Company and the Federal Government have larger payrolls -- but it the biggest company based in Cincinnati.
"We try, in the best sense of the word, to be a responsible, involved corporate citizen," said Robert L. Wehling, the company's vice president for public affairs. "But we also have a self-interest. If we are going to keep good people here, we have to do everything we can to enhance the quality of life."
 
P.&G. Person on Every Board
 About 2,000 of the company's employees are involved in community service, he said, and company executives are active on arts, education and municipal improvement committees.
"You could hardly find a board in town that does not have P.&G. people on it," said Dr. Alfred Tuchfarber, director of the Institute for Policy Research at the University of Cincinnati. The institute receives some money from Procter & Gamble.
"They are active is just just about everything," said Dr. Tuchfarber. "But this is definitely not a company town. Do people just fall down and do what they want? No. Do they listen? Yes. They are the biggest corporate player in town. But they don't control the town."
 
Builds Environmental Image
 The company also sees itself as an environmental leader, but in Cincinnati its record is mixed. The company supports recycling programs, but through board membership on the Chamber of Commerce it fought a strict version of a local air pollution act.
"This had the appearances of being a Chamber of Commerce committee fighting this, but Procter & Gamble had the heavy hand," said Roxanne Qualls, Cincinnati director of Ohio Citizen Action, a consumer and environmental group.
Business groups said the environmental proposal placed too much of a burden on them. A compromise measure was later adopted.
In Ms. Qualls's opinion, the phone subpoenas tell much about Procter & Gamble's power. "I was shocked," she said. "It had all the appearances of this truly being a company town, and shades of a police state as well."
Most Cincinnati political figures do not go that far, but they do scold the company.
"This is not a town run by P.&G.," said Gerald Newfarmer, City Manager of Cincinnati. "But the company made a bad mistake, using a crazy Ohio law. I hope the law is court-tested and thrown out. And I hope P.&G. never makes such a mistake again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The disclosure that the Procter & Gamble Company used the local police force in Cincinnati to investigate company matters has angered many of the city's business and civic leaders. The twin towers of the Procter & Gamble's headquarters loom in the skyline of downtown Cincinnati; "It's outrageous that a local corporation can use our police department like it's their own private detective force," said Tyrone Yates, a City Council member. (Photographs by Mark Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (95%); PG (NYSE) (95%); LOCM (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (95%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (95%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; WALL STREET JOURNAL PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (95%); LOCAL CORP (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); CINCINNATI REDS (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; WALL STREET JOURNAL CINCINNATI REDS (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CINCINNATI (OHIO) UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (89%); CITIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (73%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BASEBALL (72%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); ESPIONAGE (66%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; YATES, TYRONE (CITY COUNCILMAN) PETER EDWARD 'PETE' ROSE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



22 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: The Day's Highlights

 BODY:

The Break-Up Continues
THE CENTRIFUGE WHIRLS ON: Two more republics declared their independence from the Soviet Union, meaning only 5 of 15 Soviet republics still proclaim formal membership in the union. Page 1.
U.S. PREPARES TO RECOGNIZE BALTICS: Administration officials said President Bush would formally recognize the independence of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania on Monday. Page 1.
LITHUANIANS' MONUMENTAL TASK: Many people in Vilnius, the Luthuanian capital, are beginning to express apprehension about the fact that building a modern independent nation will require much more than simple patriotism. Page 12.
MOLDAVIANS LOOK TO SWITCH HORSES: People in the Moldavian republic say reunion with Romania is as inevitable as the reunification of the two Germanys. Page 13.
 
Unraveling the Mess in Moscow
 THE ICEBERG OF PARTY PROPERTY: A large segment of the Soviet economy has ground to a halt as investigators begin their inventory of seized Communist Party assets. Page 1.
 
Wanted: A New New World Order
 RETHINKING U.S. POLICY: Events in the Soviet Union undermine the assumptions on which American foreign policy goals have long been based. But so far Washington is focusing mainly on the short term. Page 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (95%); BALTIC STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATVIA (90%); ESTONIA (88%); ROMANIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (56%); NEW WORLD WINES (56%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITHUANIA (95%); BALTIC STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATVIA (90%); ESTONIA (88%); ROMANIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



23 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Boating;
Fall Boat Shows Will Feature Hype

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

 BODY:
A sagging marine market has put new life into the coming boat-show season, which moves into full swing next month. Manufacturers and trade organizers are finding they must look for new ways to sell their wares along waterfront sites.
The fall boat shows are ablaze with hype, much of it directed at the first-time buyer. Free sailing lessons are offered, as well as seminars for fishermen and demonstrations for navigators on a wide array of new marine electronics. 
 Some shows are offering free admission for children under 12. Others are setting up brokerage offices on special boats; reluctant buyers need only step aboard to negotiate a loan.
 
America's Cup on Display
 The Newport International Sailboat Show, Sept. 5-8 in Newport, R.I., plans to display the 140-year-old America's Cup as a kind of nautical roadside attraction. The trophy is returning to Newport for the first time since 1983, when it was lost to Australia in the cup races that year.
"With the way the sailboat economy is going, we felt we had to go beyond what we have ever done," said Karla Holmes-Little, the Newport show's manager. Inside, there will be fashion shows, seminars and a forum on the next America's Cup race series. On display will be Weatherly, the 1962 America's Cup defender, and Amoco Procyon, one of the industry's most technologically advanced sailboats.
The innovation is mostly in presentation, not substance these days with much of the marine industry in a holding pattern, consolidating wherever possible to stay afloat. "It is very, very rough out there," said Greg Proteau of the National Marine Manufacturers Association, a trade group based in Chicago.
 
Not Many Legitimately New Designs>
 "You don't see a great deal of legitimately new products and designs. It makes sense for manufacturers not to make dramatic changes. It would take away the incentive for buyers to look at models already on the market."
Estimates by the manufacturers group, which represents about 80 percent of the marine market in the United States, shows that the number of boats sold has dropped by nearly one-third in the last two years, from 749,000 to 504,100.
The sailboat industry, which has been reeling from poor sales for more than five years, sold 21,000 new boats last year compared with 27,000 in 1989. The powerboat industry, which reached a peak in 1988, sold 339,000 boats last year compared with 445,400 in 1989.
 
Opposition to Tax
 "Over all, my guess is, especially with the hit we've taken with the excise tax, it's going to be down again," Proteau said about 1991 figures. The Federal excise tax adds a 10 percent tax on boats costing more than $100,000. The manufacturers group has lobbied for the tax's repeal, maintaining that it has decreased big-boat sales and created unemployment in the industry.
Jay Silberman, an organizer of the Atlantic City In-Water Power Boat Show, is trying to attract that upper-bracket buyer to his show. "The boats that are soft are between $100,000 and $250,000," he said. "After that, it doesn't matter as much."
One of the newest craft being shown at the Atlantic City show (also Sept. 5-8) this year is a 45-foot speedboat, the Apache Kid. The $750,000 craft is built with three 1,292-horsepower turbocharged engines and travels up to about 40 miles an hour.
The bread and butter of the powerboat industry continues to be the runabout. Sea Ray plans to introduce an affordable boat and trailer package at the Norwalk International In-Water Powerboat Show in Norwalk, Conn., Sept. 12-15: its new 16-foot outboard limited comes with a 50-horsepower outboard engine and specially designed trailer for about $8,000. Bayliner Marine, which introduced the first boat and trailer package in 1984, offers similar packages this year.
Many of the trade shows are stressing accessories, especially in marine electronics, according to Michael Duffy, manager of the Norwalk show.
The Independence Group, a fledgling yachting syndicate based in Cos Cob, Conn., has offered $2 million to organizers for the next America's Cup races in San Diego. The proposed gift comes with the provision that the Independence group be allowed to race as a defense team. The America's Cup Organizing Committee has refused the offer, maintaining that the Connecticut group has not demonstrated that it has legitimate funding or expertise. The organizing committee met in San Diego with Al Constantine, promoter for the Independence Group, last June.
The two official America's Cup defense syndicates, Team Dennis Conner and America 3, plan to announce a new sponsorship agreement Tuesday in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tartan 3500, one of the industry's few substantially different designs this year, will be introduced at the Newport, R.I., show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MARINE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) TRADE SHOWS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); SAILING (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (68%); FASHION SHOWS (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



24 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: 4 of 10 Larger Counties Face Budget Deficits

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31

 BODY:
Four of every 10 counties in the nation with populations of more than 100,000 are facing deficits, according to a report by the National Association of Counties. In California, Maryland and New York State, more than 70 percent of the counties are in the red.
"There is in fact a major fiscal crisis throughout the nation," Kaye Braaten, president of the organization, said Wednesday, when the report was made public. 
 Nationwide, 443 counties have populations of more than 100,000. The association's survey showed the average budget deficit of those counties was $8.3 million.
The list was headed by Philadelphia County in Pennsylvania, with a $219 million deficit; New York County, or Manhattan, with $100 million and two Maryland suburbs of Washington -- Montgomery County, with an $85 million deficit, and Prince Georges County with $80 million.
 
12 California Counties Listed
 In California, the deficits in 12 counties were in the tens of millions. The four highest were Alameda County, with $66.1 million; Orange County, 65.3 million; Santa Clara County, $49 million, and San Diego County, $40 million.
Sacramento County had a deficit of $30 million; Riverside, $25 million; Santa Barbara, 22.5 million; Los Angeles and Kern counties, $20 million each; Shasta, $17.5 million; Ventura, $13 million, and Stanislaus, $12 million.
In New York State, Suffolk County, at the eastern end of Long Island, reported a $50 million deficit. Multnomah County in Oklahoma was $24 million in the red, and Oklahoma, which includes Oklahoma City, had a $10 million deficit. In Missouri, St. Louis County had a $14 million deficit.
The county executive in Prince Georges County, Parris N. Glendening, criticized Federal and state governments for adding to the counties' burdens by ordering programs to be carried out but providing inadequate money to pay for them.
 
'Passing on Obligations'
 "We ask that Federal and state officials not solve societal problems simply by passing on obligations to local government without the means to pay for them," he said. "And we ask them not to solve their budget problems by cutting funding for local governments."
Mr. Glendening cited special education, clean water, accessibility for the disabled, storm water management, recycling and landfill reclamation as examples of burdens shifted from state and Federal governments to the counties.
"These are all noble efforts," he said. "We are happy to carry out these obligation, but they cost money"
Ms. Braaten, the association's president who is a county commissioner in North Dakota, said the new survey was made after a report earlier in the year that 53 percent of the county governments in the United States with a population of more than 100,000 would be forced to increase taxes in the current fiscal year.
"A very large number of counties are currently in a state of a fiscal crisis," she said. "Those that are not are being pushed to their limits."
The organization's executive director, Larry E. Naake, said nearly 91 percent of the counties plan to cut expenses, many by delaying capital projects or by laying off or furloughing employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF COUNTIES ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF COUNTIES NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; MARYLAND; NEW YORK STATE; PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY (MD) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (65%); TAX INCREASES (62%); LANDFILLS (60%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (60%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); DISABLED ACCESS (50%); 

PERSON: GLENDENING, PARRIS N (COUNTY EXEC)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



25 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: EXPERTS QUESTION STAGGERING COSTS OF TOXIC CLEANUPS

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
A decade after Washington declared war on businesses that expose the public to hazardous wastes, environmental experts are questioning the unquestionable: Is it worth spending a staggering $300 billion to $700 billion to restore waste sites to pristine condition?
While acknowledging that no level of exposure to dangerous chemicals is desirable, the experts argue that the risks should be put in perspective. 
 Virtually all of the risk to human health, most analysts agree, could be eliminated for a tiny fraction of these sums. In a typical project, in Holden, Mo., $71,000 would be enough to isolate an abandoned factory containing residues of toxic chemicals, making it extremely unlikely that anyone would ever be harmed by the wastes. Another $3.6 million would clean up virtually all residues and bury remaining traces under a blanket of clay.
 
What Is Justified?
 But state and Federal laws requirea cleanup that would cost $13.6 million to $41.5 million. "The last couple turns of the screw cannot be justified on economic criteria," said Tom Grumbly, an environmentalist who is president of Clean Sites, a nonprofit organization in Virginia that advises communities on hazardous waste cleanups.
To be sure, the problem of weighing cleanup benefits against the costs is complicated by a lack of information about how dangerous individual chemicals are, and in what concentrations. Nonetheless, experts insist that what began as a crusade against polluters has become a diversion, siphoning money and technical expertise from more pressing environmental concerns.
 
Tougher Criteria Suggested
 More stringent scientific criteria should be used to identify waste sites needing immediate attention, they say. And once identified, the cleanup should be carefully aimed at saving lives rather than restoring land to preindustrial condition.
Analysts acknowledge that redirecting Government policy will be nearly impossible without a radical change in the way Americans think about the risks from hazardous waste. Some would try to temper the zeal for large-scale cleanups by asking the communities that benefit to share in the costs. "Everybody wants a Cadillac as long as someone else is paying," said Robert Hahn, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a research organization in Washington.
 
Little Confidence in Washington

But there is little confidence in Washington that cost-sharing would make a big difference in public attitudes. And no enthusiasm can be detected for asking voters to pay to protect themselves against hazards they did not create.
A first priority, argues Frank Blake, a former general counsel to the Environmental Protection Agency who now works for the General Electric Company, is more credible information that lifts the "fog of fear" from public perceptions. Specifically, he says, people need ways to compare the risks of exposure with the dozens of other risks that are accepted as part of daily life.
 
$11 Billion Is Spent
 The best-known Federal waste initiative is Superfund, which has spent $11 billion in a decade on emergency measures at 400 abandoned sites and full-scale cleanups at 60 others. But the cleanup mandated by the Superfund legislation has barely begun.
Some 1,200 other sites are already on the Environmental Protection Agency's national priority list, and the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment expects thousands to be added. What is more, a slew of Federal laws require the eventual cleanup of tens of thousands of other sites polluted by government and business. Mr. Grumbly of Clean Sites says the bill for waste containment could reach $20 billion a year by the end of the decade.
 
What the Country Can Afford
 The country could afford such sums, everyone agrees, if the problem demanded it. Businesses and taxpayers have managed to cope with other anti-pollution regulations that now cost $115 billion annually, by the E.P.A.'s reckoning. But little hard evidence exists to support a crash effort.
People living or working near identified toxic waste sites naturally worry that the chemicals will find their way into air, food and water. But many analysts believe the immediate dangers have been exaggerated.
"When you look for deaths from hazardous wastes, you just don't find them," said Bill Ralston, an analyst at SRI International, a consulting company in California.
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that roughly 1,000 cancer cases annually can be linked to public exposure to hazardous waste. That hardly makes abadoned waste sites a non-problem in anyone's book. But the environmental agency does rank hazardous waste far behind cancer risks like exposure to chemicals in the workplace and depletion of the atmosheric ozone layer. Moreover, many of these greater risks could be reduced at a tiny fraction of the cost of the hazardous waste fix mandated by law.
 
The Example of Radon Gas
 The E.P.A. estimates, for example, that 5,000 to 20,000 lung cancer deaths are caused each year by indoor exposure to radon gas leaking from underground rock formations. Most of these deaths could be prevented by performing inexpensive tests on buildings in radon-prone areas and ventilating basements where concentrations of the radioactive gas are high.
What explains this apparent distortion in environmental priorities? Political economists have long noted that the focused convictions of the few almost always dominate the weakly held views of the many. And Christopher Daggett, the former head of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, argues that nothing focuses convictions like a nearby waste site. "Try telling people that the leaking drums across the street aren't a hazard," he said.
 
Legal and Moral Responsibility
 There are the questions of legal and moral responsibility. Some environmental hazards, like auto emissions, are everyone's fault -- and therefore no one's. Some, like cigarette smoking, are no one's fault but one's own. But Mr. Gough notes that the public blames "greedy and thoughtless" corporations for the waste peril and is thus little inclined to weigh the benefits of cleanups against the costs.
It is not surprising, then, that communities with waste sites in their midst want them restored to how they were before industrial use. Nor is it surprising that the elected officials and administrators who write the rules for cleanups take their cues from an angry and anxious public.
Consider the 11-acre Rose Chemicals Company site in Holden, Mo. Until 1986 the site was used to store and process PCB's, toxic liquid chemicals prized by makers of electrical transmission equipment for their insulating properties and their stability at high temperatures. The barrels of PCB's were removed long ago, but residues remain in the buildings, the soil and the bed of a small stream.
 
A Range of Options
 An E.P.A. analysis says that for $71,000, the site could be permanently isolated from the community. The town's drinking water would be safe because there is no groundwater to tap near the site. But under Superfund regulations, this cheap fix would be unacceptable because there is one chance in 10,000 that someone would develop cancer from eating the cattle that grazed near the property's perimeter -- and roughly the same risk that a determined trespasser could get cancer from repeated contact with building surfaces.
Other possible fixes range from cleaning the stream bed and capping the site with 10 inches of clay ($3.7 million) to removing 14,000 tons of contaminated soil and building materials and incinerating it elsewhere ($41.5 million). The E.P.A.'s preferred $13.6 million option: remove all of the suspect soil and materials, then incinerate the most contaminated debris and bury the rest in a specially designed landfill.
 
A Cheaper Alternative
 Mr. Grumbly of Clean Sites notes that the E.P.A.'s compromise would allow virtually any future use of the site. And he points out that it would cost just a third as much as the maximum effort.
But others may wonder whether the more flexible use of the land is worth the extra $900,000 an acre beyond the cost of scrubbing the stream and capping the property. And still others may ask whether a bare-bones fix -- one that reduces neighborhood cancer risks to, say, one-thousandth the chance of getting cancer from a lifetime of normal exposure to the sun -- would not be adequate.
Mr. Hahn of the American Enterprise Institute and others inclined toward less ambitious goals suggest using financial incentives to discipline the decision-making process. If those at risk from hazardous waste sites wanted more than a basic cleanup, they could be asked to share in the cost.
Dan Dudek, an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund, a mainstream environmental group, offers a variation based on the carrot rather than the stick. Instead of taxing communities to cover the extra cleanup effort, he would give them part of the savings associated with a less-than- total repair. The town of Holden, for example, might be offered 20 percent of the $9.9 million difference as an incentive to save lives in other ways -- say, by purchasing more efficient firefighting equipment, or by testing every home for radon and lead contamination.
That idea appeals to Francis Brillhart, the mayor of Holden, who said he fears that the "E.P.A. is going a bit overboard," slowing the cleanup by choosing a method that requires incineration. If Holden could keep some of the savings generated by a faster cleanup, he says, so much the better.
But few experts think many communities would be likely to take the financial bait. The approach presumes that people would compromise on safety in return for lower taxes or improved public services. Everyone trades safety for money or convenience or simply pleasure in daily life -- new tires are safer than worn ones, turkey breast is safer to eat than a cheeseburger. But people rarely acknowledge they are making choices, even to themselves.
 
Need to Educate the Public
 That is why most analysts worried about the open-ended commitment to scrubbing the country pin their hopes on educating the public about relative risks. "We need more and better information about health risks," said Katherine Probst, an analyst at Resources for the Future, a nonprofit environmental research group.
The way in which the information is presented may also matter: knowing hazardous waste can kill is less useful than knowing it kills one-twentieth as many Americans as radon.
Mr. Grumbly of Clean Sites argues that the credibility of government turns on the transparency of its decision-making. One key to a rational public debate, he insists, is to "let the public in on the game."
But Mr. Grumbly is an optimist. "People understand," he says, "when they are wasting other people's money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A view of PCB contaminated buildings on the property of the Rose Chemical Company in Holden, Mo. Experts on environmental issues insist that what began as a crusade against polluters has become a diversion, siphoning money and technical expertise from more pressing environmental concerns. (David Hutson for The New York Times) (pg.28)
 
Table: "The Big Cleanup"
 
The cost of cleaning up several categories of polluted sites.

	Number of sites	Estimated cost	Category	(estimated)	($ billions)	 	 	 	Superfund abandoned sites	4,000	$80-120	Federally owned sites	5,000-10,000	75-250	Corrective action on active private sites	2,000-5,000	12-100	Leaking underground storage (tanks)	350,000-400,000	32	State law mandated cleanups	6,000-12,000	3-120+	Inactive uranium tailings	24	1.3	Abandoned mine lands	22,3000	55		 	 	
 
(Source: Robert Hahn, American Enterprise Institue, Office of Technology Assessment) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (61%); GEC (LSE) (61%); GE (SWX) (61%); GE (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (61%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (93%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER FRANK BLAKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



26 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Northwest Loggers Challenge Rules on Spotted Owl

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31

 BODY:
West Coast logging and community groups have challenged Federal rules intended to protect the Northern spotted owl, saying the regulations have harmed the economy in timber-dependent areas of the Pacific Northwest.
In a lawsuit filed Friday in Federal District Court here, the plaintiffs contended that the Fish and Wildlife Service overstepped its legal mandate when it issued the regulations in July 1990. 
 The suit said that the rules had been set without regard to economic impact and that Washington State, Oregon and California had relied on them in adopting local regulations."As a result," it said, "large areas of land are improperly off-limits to timber harvesting."
The plaintiffs include groups in Sweet Home and Mill City, Ore., trustees for timberland holdings and several logging companies.
The lawsuit said the Fish and Wildlife rules had been adopted without proper public notice and comment periods.
It also said the Government had improperly stretched the Endangered Species Act's definition of actions that constitute harming a threatened species. The law intended that land-use actions like timber harvesting would not be considered harming a threatened animal unless it would cause the species to become extinct, the suit said.
 
A Question of Habitat
 Destruction of habitat is at the center of the debate over protection of the spotted owl, which was declared a threatened species by the Fish and Wildlife Service in June 1990. At the time, the agency cited excessive logging of the Northwest's old-growth forests as a major cause of the population decline by the owl.
Craig Rieben, spokesman for the agency, said Friday that it could not comment on the lawsuit because its lawyers had not yet had a chance to review it.
The lawsuit said the Federal regulations barred timber harvesting in areas as large as 3,960 acres surrounding each owl nest site or activity area.
One plaintiff, Pat McCollum of Sweet Home, Ore., owns a family logging company. The lawsuit said that because the owl has been found throughout the area, Mr. McCollum has no timber to harvest and has had to lay off most of his employees.
McCollum also owns a stand of timber that he planned to harvest to pay for his retirement, but because an owl nest was found nearby he has not been allowed to, the suit said.
"His current livelihood and provisions for retirement are thus both undermined by the unlawful guidelines," it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WEST USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); WILDLIFE (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); ANIMALS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



27 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
How to Push Through A State Income Tax

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
"Make no mistake," said Lowell P. Weicker Jr. in his television and print ads in last year's campaign to be Connecticut's governor. "I'm not 'for' an income tax."
Mr. Weicker, a former Republican running as an independent, won a three-way race for governor without getting a single member of his tiny party into the legislature. Today, he stands triumphant over the nation's newest state income tax. He proposed it a month after taking office, and then insisted upon its passage through a summer-long deadlock with the legislature, during which he vetoed three state budgets and let the government partially shut down for lack of funds. 
 Economists and politicians around the country say that as the Federal government shifts more burdens to the states, others will probably be tempted to try Mr. Weicker's road. Nine states now have no income tax: New Hampshire, Texas, Tennessee, South Dakota, Washington, Florida, Alaska, Wyoming and Nevada. And five have no sales tax: New Hampshire, Alaska, Delaware, Montana, Delaware and Oregon. Of these, Texas, New Hampshire, Oregon and Montana are expected to become battlegrounds soon.
So, herewith, a few tips from Mr. Weicker's book of legislative confrontation and conquest:
* Diffuse the issue. Even as he vetoed budgets, Mr. Weicker insisted that he disliked the income tax and that he was really not "for" it at all. The budgets he killed, he said in speech after speech, were dishonest, gimmick-laden schemes that would hurt the economy. "It's not about an income tax," he said, ignoring the chorus to the contrary from residents and lawmakers.
* Divide and conquer. From his first proposal of the tax in February, Mr. Weicker began courting allies that could be played off against blocs within the Democrat-controlled legislature. The business community was won over by promises of balanced budgets and cuts in business taxes. The state's labor unions, long supporters of Mr. Weicker, threatened to cancel the package of wage and benefits deferrals they had agreed to in order to close the deficit.
* Take the heat yourself. Lawmakers said Mr. Weicker's willingness to make tax overhaul a personal crusade convinced some hesitant politicians that it would be he, not they, who would feel any wrath from voters. Mr. Weicker has made it almost a point of pride that he may be a one-term governor.
* Never underestimate size of the problem you say you're solving. Mr. Weicker, who had said during the campaign that imposing an income tax during a recession would be like "pouring gasoline on a fire," argued after his election that the state's budget deficit and the recession were so great that only a sweeping tax overhaul could revive the economy. He warned of billions of dollars in deficits, when the only definitive deficit number available, which was for the year that ended on June 30, was well under $1 billion.
The governor's allies admitted that bad news made a good political climate. The bigger the looming deficit, they said, the greater need for a tax on wages.
"I wish it were $3 billion," Jerome P. Brown, president of District 1199 of the New England Health Care Employees Union said earlier this year.
But politicians around the country said the personal and political chemistry that combined here were unique to Connecticut. In New Hampshire, for example, which is preparing for a tax fight next year, the dynamic is exactly the opposite. There the legislature is moving toward adopting the tax and Gov. Judd Gregg has vowed to block it.
And other states do not have Mr. Weicker, whose lack of party support in the General Assembly almost seemed an advantage as coalitions formed and split over the dozens of tax plans floated during the summer.
"The Governor's no marshmallow," said state Senator Fred H. Lovegrove Jr., a Republican from Fairfield who opposed the tax and never believed it would pass. "He's proven to be a much more formidable opponent than I thought he would be."
But governors thinking of taking Mr. Weicker's tips should tread carefully. During the Depression, when many states imposed income or sales taxes for the first time to compensate for plummeting property taxes, governors who ran again afterwards were kicked out of office 24 percent of the time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; INCOME TAX LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); VETO (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SALES TAX (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV); JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



28 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Teachers Flunk Democrats (And Vice Versa) in Jersey

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
With costs soaring and performance declining, New Jersey schools reopen this month amid a political free-for-all that began in earnest last month. The warring sides appear less concerned about why schoolchildren can't learn than about who is to blame.
Scholastic Aptitude Test scores released last week showed New Jersey students lagging behind an already declining national average. 
 The state government has taken over another large school district, Paterson, for what officials described as incompetence and lack of leadership. Education Commissioner John Ellis said he hopes to avoid a takeover in Newark, where the schools are also in trouble. Two years ago, in the first such seizure, state officials took control of the Jersey City schools, citing a pattern of corruption and educational failure.
All this turmoil occurs amid a new cash infusion this school year from legislation that Gov. Jim Florio optimistically called the Quality Education Act. And the aid package itself has caused a feud between New Jersey's Democratic legislative leadership and the education establishment to erupt into open political warfare.
The 136,000-member New Jersey Education Association that less than two years ago exulted in the election of Mr. Florio and a Democratic Legislature last month endorsed a slate almost exclusively Republican for the November elections, in which all 120 seats in the Legislature are at stake.
Behind the rupture in large part is the Democratically controlled Legislature's $360 million cutback this year in the education act it approved just last year. More important, in the view of Senate President John A. Lynch, is the teachers union's opposition to the strict, new spending caps on local school boards that he wrote into the legislation.
The teachers union president Betty Kraemer accuses the Democrats of "putting their election ahead of the children," while Mr. Lynch, who engineered the aid cutbacks earlier this year, accuses the teachers of "hiding behind" those same children to justify continued 8 to 10 percent annual salary increases in the face of declines in the economy, to say nothing of declines in student test scores. Last week, Democratic state chairman Philip Keegan, stung by the Republican endorsements, joined Mr. Lynch in attacking the union.
In announcing two weeks ago that the education association's political action committee had endorsed 46 Republicans and only three Democrats for the November legislative elections, a sharp reversal of its normal leanings, Ms. Kraemer said that "the Democrats turned their backs on educators, our schools and our students when they slashed $360 million from the original Quality Education Act."
That act, passed by the Legislature at the urging of the Governor last year, in part as a result of a court order that the state provide more aid to distressed districts, originally provided a record $1.1 billion in new aid to poorer and middle-income districts. The program quickly became political when Mr. Lynch led a fight to withhold $360 million on the grounds that if the entire amount went to the schools, none would be left to provide property tax relief to taxpayers, who are critical to the Governor and Democratic legislators' political survival amid a massive protest against a $2.8 billion tax increase.
While Mr. Lynch maintained that the teachers still had an $800 million windfall, the education association contended that schools were being forced to cut staff, supplies and programs. Mr. Lynch stops short of saying teachers are paid enough, but he often notes that close to $8 billion of the $10 billion spent annually on education in New Jersey goes to the salaries of teachers, administrators and staff.
Certainly, salaries have increased significantly since 1985, when Gov. Thomas H. Kean imposed an $18,500 starting minimum for teachers, creating a ripple effect that pushed all salaries up. Beginning teachers now average $22,000; those with advanced degrees and seniority in some districts earn more than $60,000. The average is about $39,000.
In announcing its pro-Republican slate, the teachers union specifically targeted Mr. Lynch for defeat, asking its 130,000 members to contribute "Ten for Tiller" -- $10 each to the campaign of Mr. Lynch's opponent, Edward Tiller.
Mr. Lynch says he is being singled out because he supports legislation limiting school spending increases to 7.5 to 9 percent in most districts, which makes raises difficult. Union leaders, he said, "despise the spending caps because they will help stop the double-digit teachers' salary hikes" that have been the norm for the last decade.
The political infighting intensified Thursday with a broadside from Mr. Keegan, the state democratic chairman, who wrote, "Betty Kraemer, and her ruling clique at the N. J. E. A., has brought shame and disgrace upon dedicated teachers throughout the state by selling out our kids, teachers and taxpayers." In an earlier open letter to Ms. Kraemer, he admonished, "Say it ain't so, Betty."
In an interview Thursday, Ms. Kraemer said the statements were designed to "split the members from the leadership through a personal attack." She also criticized Mr. Keegan's grammar, saying, "I hope he didn't attend a New Jersey public school."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); 

PERSON: LYNCH, JOHN A (SEN); KING, WAYNE JOHN LYNCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



29 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 4; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Jet Noise And the Economy

 BODY:
In a recent letter to the New Jersey editor responding to the article "Jet Noise: A New Battle Looms," James Muldoon, general manager of the aviation technical services division of the Port Authority, said that "we are hopeful that the Port Authority will adopt regulations that the states will view as appropriate and effective."
Considering the past performance of the New Jersey Assembly, this may be of little comfort to North Jerseyans, whom the extended East Coast Plan has blessed with constant jet noise and fuel residues. 
 When I recently urged Speaker Joseph V. Doria to finally bring A.4386 (which deals with Stage 2 phase-out) to the floor, he emphasized the need to gather more information on the possible economic impact: "Obviously, at the present time, given the economy of the nation and the state, we cannot afford to allow any type of commerce to be decreased as a result of government regulations."
I wrote once more to inquire what impact on the New Jersey economy was expected if airlines were asked to fly quieter planes out of Newark. Did Mr. Doria believe they would take their "commerce" to hopelessly oversaturated Kennedy or La Guardia Airports? Besides, flight paths could be shifted eastward, if the Federal Aviation Administration really tried.
His response was that any shifting might just move the problem elsewhere. (How many dolphins sit in the Assembly?) Only a reduction in total traffic from Newark would help, and that would certainly deprive New Jersey of revenue.
In one public hearing I attended, the F.A.A. said that shifting flight paths over the Atlantic would interfere with routes from the Caribbean to New England, and with military needs. In reality, shifting such a flight path 50 miles will increase flight time by 1 percent, boosting airlines' costs only slightly. The military has already admitted that in times of peace its claims on East Coast air space are excessive.
What it all boils down to is that both the state and the F.A.A. are more beholden to commerce than to the people. Many of us invested our life savings in a peaceful living space. Let aircraft users pay an extra dollar to keep it that way.
 
MAX J. SCHINDLER
Boonton

GRAPHIC: Photo: A device to measure the noise level from aircrafts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA) FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA) FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINE DEREGULATION ACT OF 1978; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NOISE AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); 

PERSON: SCHINDLER, MAX J

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



30 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Hard Work in Soviet Union Lies Ahead

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The jubilation over the dissolution of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the declaration of independence by a number of republics should not overshadow the tremendous economic, social and political problems facing the Russians and the many other nationalities of the Soviet Union. An entire superstructure of a state with 11 time zones and some 60 languages has collapsed.
Food and housing shortages, the tremendous rise of crime and the black market, the total worthlessness of the currency, the sudden unemployment of millions of unproductive bureaucrats, as well as the question of nuclear stockpiles throughout the territory -- all of these have to be addressed immediately.
Border, ethnic and religious disputes and differences, in addition to centuries of mistrust and hatred, may create a far more explosive situation than in Yugoslavia or anything else seen in this century.
The United States, Japan, the United Nations and the European Parliament and the European Community should all act together and without delay. Recognition of independence and congratulatory messages will not be enough. They should offer immediate financial and technical assistance, and be prepared to resolve border disputes, along with a rush of immigration and future population transfers.
 
GEORGE BOURNOUTIAN
Professor of Russian and Soviet
History, Iona College

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TRENDS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



31 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Combine Higher Taxes and Savings Incentives

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Pinch-Hitting for the Democrats: Invest in the Future? Yes, but How?" (editorial, Aug. 11) never proposes a solution to the pitiful United States personal savings rate. 
 Rather than increasing taxes -- hardest on the portion of the populace that votes the most, the elderly -- why not try something new?
Taxes generally cause people to do less of whatever is taxed, so that they can keep more of their money. Thus, with interest earned on most savings taxed at an average effective rate of more than 20 percent, Americans spend on goods and services, where they are taxed at 10 percent, tops.
But if Americans were given a tax credit on earned income -- say, $2,000 of credit on 5 percent or more saved -- an average middle-class household earning $40,000 would pinch pennies to save the 5 percent, or $2,000. That family would double its savings with such a tax credit.
This idea was originally whispered by our President about a year ago and then evaporated when Mr. Bush fled to some foreign land.
With nearly twice as much savings in American banks, interest rates would fall, and companies would again be able to borrow the cash they need for factories and fax machines. Any tax shortfall caused by the middle-income tax credit would be offset by increased tax revenue from a business sector rejuvenated by much lower interest rates, which would employ more people paying income taxes.
An additional benefit to national infrastructure would be a similar tax credit for those investing that 5 percent in United States savings bonds.
I don't care whether the Democrats use these ideas or George Bush picks them up, just as long as somebody leads us with a campaign that does not propose higher taxes without increased savings as the answer to our problems.
 
MICHAEL D. FRANK
Washington, Aug. 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SAVINGS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; TAX CREDITS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); 

PERSON: FRANK, MICHAEL D GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



32 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Combine Higher Taxes and Savings Incentives;
We Need Stable Prices

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Jeff Madrick gives insufficient attention to the risks of rising prices in "Recovery? The Economy Is a Mess" (Op-Ed, Aug. 14). The real achievement of the United States economy has been to contain inflation amid global inflation while suffering from a huge budget deficit, a weak dollar and increased local taxes. Any of these could have pushed the economy back to the double-digit inflation of the 1970's and early 80's. 
 Mr. Madrick calls the Federal Reserve Bank stubborn for keeping interest rates high just as the Federal funds rate is cut to its lowest since 1977. He suffers from the illusion that growth and inflation are alternatives, when the best foundation for growth is stable prices, a point made at our expense by Germany and Japan.
Mr. Madrick implies that the country would do better with some pump priming -- higher taxes, higher long-term interest rates, even bigger government. And this, just as tight monetary policy has at last reduced the cost of capital in the United States to the level paid in Japan. One trusts that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, does not heed the siren voices of easy growth.
 
DANIEL JEFFREYS
New York, Aug. 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; TAXATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); 

PERSON: JEFFREYS, DANIEL ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



33 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Combine Higher Taxes and Savings Incentives;
Toll of Reaganomics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "On Reaganomics' 10th Birthday, Not All Celebrate" (The Week in Review, Aug. 11), you stress that although total taxes by all United States governments declined in the early Reagan years, as a result of the dramatic 1981 tax cut for high-income recipients, they "gradually climbed back to the level where they were when Mr. Reagan took office: slightly more than 27 percent of G.N.P." You note that the composition of the tax mix changed -- more revenue from Social Security taxes and "local taxes" -- yet your conclusion veils the inequity of that change. 
 "There have been some clear winners and losers," you state truly. But then you identify among the losers only "people who had invested heavily in tax shelters." And the winners, you state, "included wage earners with few deductions, credits or exclusions under the old tax law."
How those wage earners gained from changes in the law that merely reduced the tax evasions available to the rich isn't outstandingly obvious. The typical wage earner with few deductions became increasingly burdened by growing state and local taxes, largely increases in regressive sales and excise taxes, and user fees.
And what could be more regressive than the 8.6 percent increase since 1984 in the Social Security tax rate, which applies to 100 percent of the income of those earning less than approximately $54,000 and to only a diminishing proportion of the income of those earning more than $54,000?
Between 1981 and 1988, the 20 percent of Americans with incomes above $56,000 gained an almost 5 percent increase in their share of total income, while the lowest 20 percent suffered a loss of 10 percent. Meanwhile, unearned income gained stunningly over wages and salaries as a share of total income.
A more honest conclusion would include among the winners the very wealthy who make a major part of their living collecting rents and pushing financial instruments around, and among the major losers those who have tried to raise children and live on wages and salaries of $54,000 and less.
 
RICHARD M. ABRAMS
Prof. of History, U. of California
Berkeley, Calif., Aug. 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); TAX FRAUD (72%); EXCISE TAX (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; ABRAMS, RICHARD M (PROF) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



34 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Hirsute Diversion

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
The controversy over the Yankees' decision to bench Mattingly because his hair was too long was an entertaining diversion from the recession, AIDS, the burning oil wells in Kuwait, etc. However, this incident raised a frightening question: "Has George Steinbrenner regained control of the Yankees?" Stump Merrill and Gene Michael both seem to be pragmatic, easygoing baseball men who would not normally be inclined to go to extremes to humiliate the key player on the teamfor such a trivial infraction.
 
TIMOTHY HORRIGAN
Orford, N.H.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (90%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KUWAIT (90%); UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); 

PERSON: MATTINGLY, DON; HORRIGAN, TIMOTHY GEORGE STEINBRENNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



35 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Lighter Bags, Shorter Trips

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
WHEN the travel industry bites a lemon, luggage makers pucker; since fewer people are taking vacations, luggage sales are expected to be down 5 percent for 1991. But as the luggage market adapts to tough times, it is producing changes that will interest people who are preparing to pack for school or others who, like me, have decided their current bags are too battered to continue.
The strong trend in consumer choices is away from hard suitcases and toward duffel bags, mainly big, some of which can be carried either by shoulder strap or handles, or enlarged versions of gym bags, soft satchels, big pouches, boat bags and the like. This shift is a direct outgrowth of the virtual halt in foreign travel during the Persian Gulf war and the continuing impact of the recession. 
 "People aren't taking big trips," Stan Schwarz, president of the Innovation luggage chain, said recently standing on the sidewalk in front of his store on Broadway and 56th Street. "They are just going over the bridge to visit an aunt." He circled his cigar toward the north, in the general direction of the George Washington Bridge. "So they want casual bags, not a traditional suitcase to hold 55 changes of clothes." He pointed to a window full of soft-sided bags in bright colors. "These things flatten to store, a good thing in New York," he said, this time waving south.
"The soft category is up 28 percent at Innovation since January," Mr. Schwarz said. Since overall sales will be flat or down, he said this growth was mainly at the expense of the traditional suitcase.
Robert K. Ermatinger, executive vice president of the Luggage and Leather Goods Manufacturers of America, confirmed the trends noted at Innovation, not surprising since Mr. Schwarz said he is the largest luggage dealer in North America. Mr. Ermatinger said that sales of big duffels rose 26 percent last year, and that other gainers were also soft-sided: garment bags and small totes. Bags that fold inside others, allowing for expansion on the return trip or for segregating dirty laundry, are increasingly popular. Chiao is offering one called a pancake, flat and round, as the name implies, which unzips around the edge to form a cylinder-shaped bag. It is $35.
With the trend, the quality of casual bags is improving: stronger fabrics, better waterproofing and stouter zippers.
In dollar volume, Innovation says its biggest seller is the Samsonite Silhouette 4 Ultra Valet fabric garment bag, model 617633, which sells for $220. The second seller is also a garment bag, the Boyt Mach II 42-inch long Walk-In Closet, model 34609, which sells for $370. The best-seller on the basis of unit sales represents the new trend. It is the black Lucas expandable carry-on, a duffel-style bag that expands, with zippers, from 21 inches to 25 inches in length. This one, model 872108, costs $70.
 
Testing Hard vs. Soft
 If you watch the flow at the airports, you see instantly that foreign travelers coming to the United States are still carrying "traditional" molded suitcases, and very big ones at that. Luggage handlers and luggage makers say that if a year's worth of belongings is going to travel as baggage, the hard case is the only sure way to get them there unshredded. At the Innovation store, customers from overseas were kneeling down to study the insides of big, hard cases. "Can't sell soft sides to them," Mr. Schwarz said. "For security, nothing matches the hard Pullman."
But Consumer Reports did not concur when it evaluated luggage in the June 1990 issue. Eggs were wrapped in padding and placed in both types of bags. Then the bags were tumbled in a rotating drum intended to replicate the sort of bouncing around that bags get from airlines. The eggs in the soft-sided bags survived better than those in the hard bags, which transmitted the impact of the falls. However, when the bags were laid on the floor and a 200-person stepped on them, the hard bags protected the eggs better.
On a hard bag, the quality of the latch and lock is of great importance; on a fabric bag, it is the zipper that should be strong.
The hard cases are themselves heavier than canvas ones, and bigger -- 29 to even 32 inches wide -- and trying to move these things fully laden is difficult. If you must carry all your bags yourself, as when you pass Customs, the big cases almost invariably require attached wheels and a pull strap at one corner. But anyone who has used a strap to drag a full suitcase has discovered that they are top-heavy and fall sideways as you turn a corner. Also, when the bags pop out on the luggage carousel, the little metal casters with sharp metal bases seem to cause many tears in other fabric suitcases. Often enough a wheel is gone, probably a victim of a similar mischance.
Some suitcases have larger plastic or hard rubber wheels, set into the corners, and these balance better, although they do not swivel for steering. The models that have the wheels on the shorter dimension of an oblong case, like those Asian students seem to favor, are rolled along rather than dragged, but one per person is about the limit here.
 
Mishandled Bags
 Most air travelers believe that the amount of carry-on luggage has increased, apparently because flight attendants are loath to challenge travelers in a time when planes are flying nowhere near their load limits. Salespeople in luggage departments around New York say that customers are still worried about losing their bags and generally want to buy items they can carry aboard.
However, according to Department of Transportation figures, travelers' complaints to the airlines about "mishandled" luggage -- lost, damaged, delayed or pilfered -- were down in June this year, compared with June last year. The figures for 1991 showed a total of 182,902 customer complaints to the separate airlines, a rate of 5.04 for each 1,000 domestic passengers, as against the total of 230,693 complaints in 1990, a rate of 6.56 for each 1,000 domestic passengers.
The number of complaints addressed to the department itself about mishandled baggage was 109 in June 1991, as against 91 in June 1990. Hoyte B. Decker Jr., the assistant director for consumer affairs in the department, said there was no way to judge why the total of complaints to airlines -- necessary for any restitution -- and of complaints to the department went in opposite directions.
There is one factor favoring bigger bags: on domestic trips, airlines charge by the bag, not by the pound, for surplus luggage. The amount can be pretty big, but varies by airline and even by city, according to Bill Jackman of the Air Transport Association. As a sample, American and United generally accept three bags free and charge $45 each for bags number 4 to 7 and $65 each for bags 8, 9 and 10. Continental's surcharge begins at $35 a bag.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LUGGAGE MFG (91%); TRENDS (89%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FABRICS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1991



36 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5182 words

HEADLINE: Off Course

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle; Louis Uchitelle reports on economics for The New York Times.

 BODY:
FROM USAIR'S GLASS-ENCLOSED TOWER, Greater Pittsburgh International Airport seems asleep. Nearly 40 airliners nuzzle quietly along wharflike terminals, like giant, docile porpoises. The planes are taking on passengers, but the tower crew can't see the activity. What is visible through the tower's panoramic windows at 4:30 P.M. on a busy weekday is a vast, empty airfield.
But then the porpoises, twin-engined DC-9's and Boeing 737's, come alive. At 4:35, the first backs away from the terminal. "Gate One is pushing," says Kim Hunter, the young tower chief. In minutes, more than 30 planes are under way. Swarming and mingling, they seem almost to greet each other before falling gradually into line and taxiing to the runways. A USAir fleet is departing, and for the fifth time since early morning a deserted airport becomes a congested one. 
 Nothing so stands out as the hallmark of airline deregulation -- the removal of Government controls over routes and fares -- than these surges of activity that all but overwhelm even the largest airports at certain times, only to fade to eerie quiet at others. Since deregulation became law in 1978, the airlines have put together their own version of a mass transit system that moves more planes to more places more frequently than anyone ever imagined. From 29 "hub" airports across the nation, the airlines send out fleets of aircraft, draw them back and quickly send them out again to "spoke" towns and cities, generating more than 14,000 domestic flights a day.
But not without considerable pain for consumers, and for many of the airlines themselves. Witness the near death this summer of that pioneer of commercial aviation, Pan American World Airways, which lacked the foresight and resources to develop the hub operations essential to profitability in today's airline industry. The hub-and-spoke system that has dominated air travel since the mid-80's was never envisioned by the authors of deregulation; it evolved only after a handful of major airlines discovered that by controlling the flow of traffic in and out of large, strategically placed airports, they would gain much of the same power over routes and fares that the Government once exercised.
Spewing out flights in every direction, the hub-based mass transit system is not, by nature, user-friendly. The graceful rhythms of a fleet departure, so arresting a sight from USAir's traffic control tower, are lost on passengers squeezed into narrow seats inside an airliner that's been stuck for more than a quarter of an hour on the Tarmac.
Such irritations have undoubtedly contributed to the erosion of public support for deregulation that the Roper Organization, in its national opinion polls, has found over the years. A decade ago, only 17 percent of Americans polled expressed dissatisfaction with deregulation and supported more Government controls. That figure rose to 36 percent last October. Most of the increase came in the mid-80's, just as the hub airports were coming into their own.
"The biggest complaint is delays, and two-thirds of these are weather-related," says Cornish Hitchcock, legal director of the Aviation Consumer Action Project in Washington. With the hub-and-spoke system, a local rainstorm can have a ripple effect. "You can be sitting in Chicago, waiting for a flight to Boston," he says, "and you are told that the aircraft you are supposed to take hasn't reached Dallas, much less Chicago, because it is raining in Phoenix."
Even on this cloudless June afternoon in Pittsburgh, an ideal flying day, the USAir fleet is experiencing the kind of nettlesome delays that Department of Transportation data show to be endemic to the world of hub and spoke. One late arrival from Los Angeles, Flight 82, is disrupting operations, threatening to make not only its own pasengers late, but also hundreds of others.
Flight 82 is 28 minutes behind schedule, and nearly half of its 102 passengers have paid for seats on more than 20 connecting flights, six of which are now forced to delay their departures. Through the radio chatter in the tower, Hunter keeps abreast of Flight 82's passengers hurrying through the terminal and of baggage handlers rushing to transfer suitcases to waiting planes.
A DC-9 bound for Norfolk is the first of the laggards to cast off, having picked up two of the Los Angeles passengers. Three other travelers now board a plane to Buffalo, three more take a connecting flight to Newport News, Va., and two more to Syracuse. A flight to Erie, Pa., which waits for 10 passengers from the Los Angeles flight, is still boarding them and their luggage 15 minutes past its departure time. Hunter considers releasing the plane, which would leave some ticket holders, or their bags, stranded. "You tend to be more liberal late in the day, because you don't want people stuck here overnight," she says, deciding to stretch the deadline. The Erie flight finally rolls off at 5 o'clock -- 20 minutes behind schedule for a 38-minute flight.
THE GREAT PROMISE OF AIRLINE deregulation -- vigorous competition among numerous carriers that would keep fares low -- is fading. The system was supposed to provide travelers with a buyer's market of choices in airlines, flights and fares, and, in fact, there are more flights now than before deregulation. But a much lower percentage of them are nonstop, adding hours and stress to many trips. Even a short 316-mile flight from Birmingham, Ala., to New Orleans normally requires an almost absurd detour to a hub -- a plane change in Atlanta, Memphis or Nashville that turns a trip of less than one hour's flying time into a four-hour odyssey. The trade-off for these inconveniences was supposed to be lower fares, but they, too, are beginning to disappear.
Passengers are not the only ones who have suffered under deregulation. Continental, T.W.A., Midway and America West, all once prosperous carriers, are either operating in bankruptcy or very close to it. A fifth, Eastern, died in January, and Pan Am has greatly shrunk, having sold off most of its remaining routes to Delta. More than ever, the danger exists that the airline industry could "collapse into a tight little oligopoly, controlled by a handful of firms," Kenneth M. Mead, director of transportation issues for the General Accounting Office, told a House committee recently. But the oligopoly is already here. Today, five airlines -- American, United, Delta, Northwest and USAir -- dominate air travel in the United States, handling 71 percent of all the traffic and, like ward bosses, controlling 21 of the nation's 29 hub airports.
Twice before in the 70-year history of commercial aviation, the airlines have undergone consolidation. The first round was in the 1920's, when the United States Post Office awarded rich mail-carrying contracts to a few airlines, choosing from among the numerous tiny companies that were competing for a foothold. A second contraction was set in motion after a political scandal ended the Post Office's power to subsidize airlines. But the Roosevelt Administration soon created the Civil Aeronautics Authority, later renamed the Civil Aeronautics Board, to divvy up routes and set uniform fares.
The act of deregulation was a new wrinkle. With high inflation plaguing Americans in the 1970's, the airlines and the bureaucratic C.A.B. had become lightning rods for public wrath. In another era, the solution might have been Federal subsidies to lower fares. But laissez-faire economics was all the rage, and the answer that emerged, pushed by President Carter himself, was a wide-open marketplace. The theory was that this would produce many new airlines and much fare cutting, which would provide Americans not only with cheaper air travel but also lower inflation.
The cheap travel and numerous new airlines did, for a while, materialize. But in time, the major airlines, groping for ways to eliminate the new competition, came up with the hugely expensive hub system, which effectively shut out the young, underfunded challengers. Virtually all the small airlines born in the early years of deregulation, including People Express, New York Air and Capitol, soon died off -- a graveyard of nearly 200 in 13 years.
ONCE AIRLINE ROUTES WERE STRAIGHT LINES between cities drawn by the Government, but today they are designed by the airlines themselves, radiating like the ribs of an umbrella from hub airports. And whatever changes deregulation brings next, the hub-and-spoke system seems certain to be with us for a very long time. Despite the congestion and the passenger inconveniences, no one is pressing to do away with what is, from the airlines' viewpoint, a wonderfully efficient setup. The endless flights from outlying cities to a hub and then out again help fill seats and keep planes constantly in use -- increasing revenues.
"When you have 20 people from some small city going to 20 different destinations, you can put them all on one plane, fly them to a hub like Pittsburgh and then scatter them," says David A. Swierenga, an assistant vice president of the Air Transport Association of America, the airlines' trade group.
The hubs are also labor saving. One shift of USAir employees -- including Hunter's tower crew, ticket agents, baggage handlers, mechanics and supervisors -- handles not only the late afternoon fleet and its horde of passengers, but four other incoming and outgoing fleets: a total of nearly 200 flights.
Then there is the leverage that an airline, monopolizing a hub, exercises over local passengers. More than 30 percent of the travelers passing through Pittsburgh International, for example, begin or end their journeys in that city. Since USAir handles 85 percent of the traffic into and out of the airport, these passengers find themselves forced to pay ticket prices well above average. The same is true of most of the other hubs, where local customers end up paying premium fares -- roughly 10 to 15 percent above the norm.
"The real payoff in operating a hub airport," says Severin Borenstein, an economist specializing in the airline industry at the University of California at Davis, "comes from the travelers who either begin or end their journeys at the hub."
The nonlocals, those merely changing planes at a hub, can bargain better. If USAir seems to charge too much to go from, say, Akron, Ohio, to New York's LaGuardia Airport via Pittsburgh, there are other routes, via other hubs. You can take a Delta commuter plane into that airline's Cincinnati hub, then fly to New York in a Delta jet; or grab a Northwest flight to Northwest's Detroit hub and from there make a direct connection to LaGuardia. Luring travelers through their hubs is the main thrust of competition among the airlines.
Tellingly, that competition never reaches the point of trying to take over a rival's hub. When American sought one in North Carolina several years ago, rather than going through the expense and energy of trying to dislodge USAir from that airline's Charlotte hub, it went the easier route by centering its operations in nearby Raleigh-Durham. (The few cases in which airlines share a hub -- American and United at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, United and Continental at Denver's Stapleton Airport, Delta and Northwest at Boston's Logan Airport and American and Delta at the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport -- are largely holdovers from pre-deregulation days.) "The airlines compete between their hubs, not at them," says Patrick V. Murphy Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Transportation.
YET DESPITE THE NUMEROUS flights through the different hubs, it is not always easy to get an affordable seat. Those passengers who pay full price in coach or first class, spending more than in the days before deregulation, have quick and unlimited use of the system. But the great majority of passengers purchase discount tickets, which restricts their access to flights. It would be the same if subway riders could buy half-price tokens that would be valid only for every fourth or fifth train that enters the station. "You are paying a premium for the right to travel anytime you want," says Barbara R. Amster, vice president for ticket pricing at American Airlines.
But discount tickets aren't the bargain they once were, either. Gone is the wild fare-cutting, when a People Express offered a $99 one-way, coast-to-coast ticket and others matched the rock-bottom price. Today, the New York-Los Angeles fare rarely drops below $200. And while airline tickets -- full fare and discount combined -- cost substantially less now, on average, than in 1978, the low point came in 1987. Since then, fares have been inching up.
Newspaper ads still herald eye-popping bargains, of course, but they usually don't last long, and the restrictions can be daunting. Passengers are often obliged to purchase tickets at least seven days in advance, to buy round trip (with no refund for cancellation), to travel in the early morning or late afternoon, to stay over Saturday night, to use their tickets by a certain date and, most important, to change planes -- sometimes doubling or even tripling the length of a journey.
This proliferation of rules limits the number of tickets sold and the pressure on competing airlines to match the bargains. "Fares may not rise," says Julius Maldutis, an airline industry analyst at Salomon Brothers, "but the availability of discounts will shrink, and the size of the discounts will also shrink."
THE AIRLINES ARE, IN FACT, DILIGENTLY working toward this goal. Their method is called yield management, a formidable computerized system of frequently repricing seats on every upcoming flight until the day the plane departs. Barbara Amster, vice president for ticketing at American Airlines, is a master of the game.
Amster, 44, was born and raised in New York City. Starting as a reservations clerk 24 years ago, she moved up American's ranks, always selling tickets, and in 1977 was transferred south to its corporate headquarters at the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. Now she is seated at her office desk, examining my airline ticket. Her nasal voice and frequent staccato laugh are pleasantly scornful.
"This is my kind of guy, all right," she says, noting that I had paid $530 -- full coach fare -- to fly from New York to Dallas on American. "We'll definitely bring you a cup of coffee."
Her secretary does, also in good humor. I had purchased my round-trip ticket eight days in advance. At the time, the computers had shown $530 to be the least expensive fare available on such short notice for a nonstop flight. But a day or two later, having not sold enough seats, Amster's staff opened up some places at $466, requiring only three days' advance purchase. I was out $64.
"What you should have done," Amster advises, "was purchase your ticket and get wait-listed for the three-day advance fare." Only then, she explains, would American have notified me that a cheaper seat had become available.
She continues the lesson. American has 2,450 jet departures a day. Each flight averages more than 12 different published fares, whose availability is juggled constantly. A businessman traveling from Austin to the Dallas-Fort Worth hub might be told that no seats are available on his chosen flight, even at full coach fare. But a vacationer on the same flight to Dallas who is then going on to New York -- or, better yet, London -- has no problem getting a seat. Even with an excursion fare, the vacationer is paying far more for his long journey than the business traveler making the one-hour hop to Dallas.
"I have to see how many people I can get to give me the most money," Amster says. Then, leaning across her desk, she draws a diagram, dividing the 190 seats on a Dallas-to-New York flight into various groups. Fifteen are assigned a "yield," or value, of $600 apiece, 15 more of $400 and so on down the scale to about $100. The traveler from Austin-to-Dallas-to-New York is paying enough to be assigned a $400 value on the Dallas-New York leg.
There are other tricks in Amster's bag. Sixty days before the flight, the greatest demand is for the lowest excursion fares, but few are put up for sale. "You don't want to sell too many of these and lose the higher-paying traveler who books late," she says.
Forty days before a flight, a traveler might be told that a $268 round-trip excursion fare, requiring 30 days' advance purchase, is sold out. He then buys a higher-priced discount ticket, paying, say, $318. But five days later, the anticipated demand for more expensive seats has not surfaced, and the $268 fare goes back on sale. Early planning results in a $50 loss.
"If we are too optimistic about selling the expensive seats, we lose sales at the $400 level," Amster says. "But I'd rather lose those than the $600 seats."
MARCHING TO THIS strategy, the airlines change fares 80,000 times every day, and slowly their revenues seem to be rising. Five years ago, average revenue paid by each passenger on the nation's airlines had fallen to 11.08 cents a mile from 12.74 cents in 1981. These were the go-go years when People Express, New York Air and other newcomers were selling all their seats at bargain prices. The explosion of cheap air travel made folk heroes of entrepreneurs like Donald C. Burr, founder of People Express. Frank A. Lorenzo, whose New York Air slashed shuttle fares in the Northeast, was also acclaimed, until his bitter struggles with the unions at Eastern cast him in the role of villain.
After initially attempting to match the challengers, the established airlines stumbled on yield management. They found that by offering a relatively small number of low-priced seats, they were able to lure away enough passengers to put the upstarts out of business, which they did in the mid-80's. Since 1986, revenue per passenger mile has steadily risen to an average of more than 13 cents, despite the problems that beset the industry during the recession and the Persian Gulf crisis.
But the new stability in revenues came too late for some airlines. The problems of Eastern, Pan Am, T.W.A., America West and Midway -- high debt, lack of capital, inadequate equipment or bad management -- have crippled their chances to play the hub-and-spoke game against the big airlines.
"It is unfortunate that people are being hurt," says Clifford Winston, an airline expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington and a passionate advocate of deregulation. "But this happens in free markets. The least efficient drop out."
IN THIS LATEST chapter in commercial aviation history, American, United and Delta have become the most powerful, their fleets blanketing the country. More and more, their planes are also coming and going from abroad. The big three are rapidly adding flights to Europe, the Far East and Latin America, purchasing overseas routes from T.W.A. and Pan Am, taking over their roles as the nation's principal overseas carriers. Above all, the expansion abroad helps fill flights within the United States. A resident of Wichita, Kan., or Oklahoma City, traveling to London, is likely today to fly American into its Dallas-Fort Worth hub and then cross the Atlantic on that airline's nightly flight from Dallas.
The frequent-flyer programs offered by American, United and Delta -- the most comprehensive in the industry -- are another weapon that assures their domination. Once a customer accumulates enough miles, the big three offer a much greater variety of trips in this country and abroad than other airlines. "We can't offer the world and that hurts us," says Edward R. Beauvais, chairman and founder of America West, an eight-year-old airline whose operations are concentrated in the West. It filed for bankruptcy in June to avoid paying creditors.
Another big advantage for American and United is that they own or control the two computer reservation systems most used by travel agents to book flights. (Eighty-five percent of all reservations are made through travel agents.) While every airline's flights and fares are listed in each giant system (called Sabre and Apollo), control gives American and United an edge in getting agents to steer customers their way. Among other things, the two airlines give free use of Sabre and Apollo to agents who book a minimum number of flights. Just using the computer terminals to make reservations on airlines other than American and United is harder, requiring more key strokes.
But of all the muscles the big three can flex, perhaps the biggest -- and most worrisome to smaller competitors -- is overseas expansion. It is of particular concern to Edwin I. Colodny, chairman of USAir, which has only a handful of overseas flights. Under Colodny, now 65, USAir grew from a regional carrier in the Northeast, called Allegheny, to a national one, renamed USAir, that expanded and prospered by acquiring faltering airlines.
But Colodny concedes that USAir might not be strong enough to make the next big leap necessary to survival in the age of deregulation -- the acquisition of overseas routes. While the big three battled until mid-August over what was left of Pan Am's global network, USAir, despite flourishing hubs in Pittsburgh and three other cities, lacked the huge capital to get into the bidding. "Ultimately," Colodny says, "USAir might have to ally with a foreign airline, or be acquired by one of the big American carriers."
AT THIS JUNCTURE IN the deregulation sweepstakes, American Airlines looks like the biggest winner, enjoying greater prosperity than even United or Delta (in spite of the latter's expansion with the purchase last month of many Pan Am routes). So it is no surprise that one of the country's most tireless boosters of airline deregulation is American's 55-year-old chairman, Robert L. Crandall. With his strong hands, rugged face and slightly off-center nose, Crandall could easily be mistaken for a mechanic from his own airline. But his bluntness and zeal have made him the industry's most visible spokesman.
"There is a great debate brewing that is solidly rooted in misunderstanding and misinformation," Crandall says, sitting in his office at the company's Dallas-Fort Worth headquarters. "It has to do with the supposition of a good many people that in order to have competiton you have to have 15 domestic airlines. In fact, 15 domestic airlines would create less competition than three domestic airlines."
Superairlines are necessary, Crandall asserts, to reduce overcapacity (four out of every 10 seats go unfilled) and to go head-to-head with well-heeled, often Government-subsidized foreign carriers in international competition. The corollary to this argument is that the United States Government, in assigning overseas routes, should give preference to American, United, Delta and Northwest.
There is an arrogance to Crandall's line of thinking, but also a logic. The major airlines operate on very small profit margins, even in good times, and so far this year they have lost billions of dollars to war-related fuel increases and travel declines. To assure profits, Crandall says, fares must rise about 6 percent above present levels. And to make possible these higher fares, the industry inevitably will have to shrink.
"Fares have to go up," says Crandall, voicing a sentiment that few airline executives would disagree with. "If the public wants to have an airline industry at all, and if the public wants new airplanes and safe airplanes and adequate terminals, they have to be paid for."
The Crandall philosophy is loaded with irony. His prescription for the industry -- fewer airlines and higher fares -- was precisely what airline deregulation was intended to eliminate. Moreover, opponents of deregulation, like Paul S. Dempsey, a transportation expert at the University of Denver, see nothing but rising fares on the horizon. "We know the survivors will be rational wealth maximizers inclined to raise fares to super levels," he says.
In pursuit of more passengers and higher fares, Crandall has violated a taboo within his industry that is decades old: selling safety. In the July issue of American Way, the airline's magazine, Crandall insinuated that the big airlines were safer than the smaller ones because they could afford the required maintenance.
But Anthony J. Broderick, the F.A.A.'s associate administrator for regulation and certification, contends that American and the other large carriers have accident records that are virtually indistinguishable from those of the smaller airlines. For the industry as a whole, fatalities have dropped to all-time low levels over the last 15 years, in part because new computer monitoring technology has made aircraft more reliable.
The safety issue is complicated, however. The hubs themselves push acceptable safety limits when fleets converge on airports, increasing the stress on pilots and air traffic controllers. With planes coming in only 30 seconds apart, controllers sometimes find themselves rapidly issuing instructions to five or six approaching aircraft, never knowing for sure if their messages have been received.
Kit Darby, a co-pilot for United, has experienced these bursts of instructions many times. "It would be nice if they would give you time to repeat the information back to them," he says. "In my plane, there are three of us listening to check what we thought we heard with each other."
HISTORY HAS inscribed Alfred E. Kahn as the father of airline deregulation. As chairman of the C.A.B. under President Carter, he was the man who led the dismantling of the Government's power to award routes and set fares. But Kahn, now 73 and living near Ithaca, N.Y., acknowledges that the system he wrought is idiosyncratic and perhaps drifting dangerously off course.
Kahn likes to tell the following story: Three years ago, he received an invitation from his old boss. "President Carter invited the people who had worked with him down to lunch in Atlanta on a Monday," he recalls, "and I wanted to go and come back on the same day. It was $560 round trip. So my travel agent got me two discount round-trip tickets, each requiring a weekend's stayover, and I threw away the two extremes and the trip cost me only $355." (Half of one round-trip ticket permitted him to fly to Atlanta on the chosen Monday morning; the other ticket's return leg allowed him to fly home that afternoon.)
Would Kahn go back to regulating fares? No, he replies. He still favors allowing the marketplace to set ticket prices, although he acknowledges that the process breeds confusion, inequities and annoyances among consumers. "I cannot deny the increased resentment of passengers," he says, "not only at the stopovers, but at the proliferation of fares and how much harder it is to be a good shopper today. And the crowding."
But, says Kahn, that's the way the system is supposed to work. The theory is, you get what you pay for. It's the old tradeoff of uncomfortable travel for low fares. What bothers Kahn is that this old tradeoff, which seemed to thrive in the early years of deregulation, is now skewed. Discounts are less abundant, but discomforts aren't.
Kahn, in part, blames the Reagan and Bush Administrations. "A Government sensitive to predatory pricing might have helped retain more competition in the form of more airlines," he says. Antitrust laws, Kahn argues, should have been invoked. "If I were in charge of the antitrust division," he says, "I would damn well see if I could build a case that yield management is predatory pricing."
So why didn't he raise the antitrust objections when he was in charge? Kahn says that in the fall of 1978, just before airline deregulation officially started, he became concerned about the potential for damaging mergers. While vacationing with his wife in Venice, he drafted a memo outlining his fears. But after Kahn returned to Washington, President Carter pulled him out of the C.A.B., which would be slowly dismantled over the next few years, and put him in charge of fighting inflation as chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability.
"I never was able to follow up," Kahn says, a little wistfully. "It is hard for anyone who was not there at the time to appreciate the way in which the forces began to take on a momentum of their own."
FOR ALL OF deregulation's problems, no one in official Washington has yet called for a return to full-scale Government regulation. But some would at least take the rough edges off deregulation. Under a bill now before the House, life would become easier for the faltering airlines. They would have more access to landing slots at the airports of their competitors and more leverage over the computer reservation systems controlled by American and United. In addition, the reassignment of overseas routes, now dominated by the big three, would be supervised by the Government to insure that the smaller airlines got a bigger share. Finally, the legislation would permit foreign carriers to own up to 49 percent of a United States airline's voting stock, if that airline was in danger of failing for lack of capital. The current limit is 25 percent.
The Bush Administration, recognizing that a few foreign airlines already have major investments in American carriers (among them, KLM in Northwest, S.A.S. in Continental), strongly supports an increase in foreign ownership up to 49 percent. But the Administration shows signs of going a step further, allowing foreign carriers to operate routes within the United States itself. It is not far-fetched to envision British Airways someday flying direct from New York or Chicago to St. Louis, even taking over T.W.A.'s big hub there if that airline goes under.
Some Administration officials foresee American carriers making similar inroads abroad, particularly as deregulation takes hold in Europe and the Far East. "I believe that the airlines of the future will be multinational companies," Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner says. "They will operate in each other's countries, like many manufacturing corporations do today."
Skinner draws an analogy with the auto industry. Just as General Motors and Ford have big manufacturing operations in Europe, and as Nissan, Honda and Toyota have factories in the United States, so airlines would set up shop around the globe.
But airlines aren't auto manufacturers. Building and selling cars in the United States is a penny-ante proposition compared with the gigantic costs of establishing a hub here, when the best hub cities are already taken. Acquiring American carriers, like T.W.A. or USAir, might be the least troublesome and least costly means of a foreign airline's gaining entry.
But what if Congress doesn't buy the idea? Without the intervention of foreign airlines -- or some Government regulation to protect the weaker carriers -- airline industry contraction seems destined to continue. "Eventually," says the University of California's Severn Borenstein, "the number of major airlines might be reduced to just a few, or possibly even one."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 1991, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in The Times Magazine last Sunday with an article about the airline industry misidentified the airport in which passengers were shown waiting. They were at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport, waiting for an American Airlines flight, not the Pittsburgh airport, waiting for a USAir flight.

GRAPHIC: Cover photo: A taxi lane at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. (Photograph by Paul L. Merideth for The New York Times)
 
Photos: One result of the hub-and-spoke system is a waiting game that adds hours and stress to many trips. At Greater Pittsburgh International Airport, above, passengers wait to board a USAir flight (Photographs by Jan Staller), and at O'Hare International in Chicago, right, a United plane waits at the gate. (Paul L. Merideth for The New York Times)(pg. 13); Barbara Amster, vice president for ticketing at American Airlines in Dallas, is a master of what is called yield management, the art of minimizing passenger discounts and maximizing airline revenues. (Photograph by Jan Staller for The New York Times.)(pg. 14); Robert Crandall, above, chairman of American Airlines and one of the industry's most visible spokesmen. His prescription for airline competitiveness is higher fares and fewer carriers. (Photographs by Paul L. Merideth)(pg. 17); The takeoff lineup at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, the nation's busiest hub. (Jan Staller for The New York Times)(pg. 16)
 
Chart: "Up, Up and Away: America's Disappearing Airlines" shows mergers of American airlines from 1978 to August 1991. (pg. 15)
 
Map: "Pittsburgh's Hub-and Spoke Network." From Pittsburgh, USAir spews out flights in every direction. Under the hub-and-spoke system, airlines send out fleets of planes from large, strategically placed airports, draw them back and quickly send them out again. After deregulation, the big airlines found that by controlling traffic flow, they could assume the Government's old power over fares and routes. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); BOEING CO (58%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); DEREGULATION (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIR SERVICE (73%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); CITY LIFE (65%); LEGISLATION (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1991



37 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Farewell, Red Menace: U.S. Starts Altering Its Perspective on the World

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 31

 BODY:
Just when the United States had adjusted to the idea that the Kremlin had turned from implacable enemy to benign adversary, the breathtaking events in the Soviet Union have forced the country to confront the possibility that soon there may be no adversary there at all.
 The sudden prospect that the Soviet Union will cease to exist in its current form has implications that go far beyond Soviet-American relations, and the Soviet upheaval has already forced the Bush Administration to begin re-examining its fundamental policy goals. 
So far, Bush Administration officials, as stunned as everyone by the events in Moscow, are focusing on short-term problems and making only modest changes in policy.
 
Direct Aid to Republics
 The White House made clear this week, for example, that it was prepared to send humanitarian aid directly to the republics, bypassing the collapsing central Government in Moscow. It also was encouraging the Soviet Union to maintain at least an economic union, and taking advantage of the upheaval to press Moscow to reduce military spending.
 For 45 years, the Soviet Union has been the lens through which American foreign policy around the world and American military thinking, especially nuclear strategy, have been focused.
 The threat of Communism has been at the heart of virtually every crisis the United States has faced since World War II, crystallizing national resolve in such seminal events as the Berlin airlift of 1948 and the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, or convulsing American society in darker passages, like the Vietnam War.
 
Pervaded American Life
 Fear of Communism and the Kremlin has touched almost every aspect of American life -- literature, theater, the movies, television, the universities, main street.
 Always painted in menacing shadows, the Kremlin has been a powerful and at times distorting influence on domestic politics since the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, from the anti-Communist raids led by Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer in 1919 to the witch hunts and blacklists of the McCarthy period in the 1950's to the Reagan Administration's politically divisive efforts to roll back Soviet influence in Nicaragua in the 1980's.
 The effort to repel Communism was the binding force of the modern conservative coalition, helping to keep Republicans in the White House, and the specter of the Soviet enemy has helped define the nation's image of itself as the defender of threatened freedoms. The Soviet Union was the yardstick by which Americans measured their successes and their place in the world: the fear of losing the space race and falling behind in science when Sputnik soared into orbit in 1957, for example, or the national jubilation when sledgehammers tore into the Berlin Wall in 1989, and now for many a sense that the American-led stand against Communism and the Soviet Union has succeeded beyond anyone's expectations.
 
The 'New World Order' Ages
 When President Bush offered his "new world order" a year ago to explain why the nation had to face war with Iraq during another tumultuous August, he grounded his vision on the assumption that there would continue to be a Soviet Union -- much like the one that had existed since 1917, just friendlier and less of a military threat.
 Last week, the President seemed to acknowledge the passing of that epoch. "Out of this change in the Soviet Union, if we handle it properly and if things keep going forward instead of slipping back, there's an opportunity for a vastly restructured national security posture," he said.
 Cautious as ever, he added, "It's way too early -- way too early -- to get into that."
 But even as he spoke, his Government was in the early stages of what eventually may be a fundamental rewriting of American policy, and a new debate was quickly developing in Washington about whether to make deeper cuts in the Pentagon budget.
 The short-term questions the Administration is studying are perplexing enough: Who are the new people taking over the Soviet Union? Will Mikhail S. Gorbachev or Boris N. Yeltsin emerge the nation's leader? Who is in control of the Soviet nuclear arsenal? How much food will the Soviet Union need this winter?
 "All we can do now is to try to do everything we can think of to position ourselves to be able to move rapidly when the situation clarifies," a senior official said.
 
More Fundamental Questions
 But beyond these questions are more fundamental ones, each of which may require sweeping changes in American policy. Will the central Soviet Government survive, and if not, what will emerge? How will the United States do business with four or five or more Governments where there is now one? What are the responsibilities of the United States as the only superpower in what used to be a two-superpower world? Against whom is the United States now arming itself militarily and ideologically?
 "We've got to begin to lay an intellectual base for U.S. involvement in the world, a rationale that people understand and support and around which you can build a consensus, as was done with containment," said Representative Lee Hamilton, Democrat of Indiana. Mr. Hamilton was referring to the goal of "containing" the Soviet bloc, which was set soon after World War II and has been the driving force behind American policy on the Soviet Union since then.
 Already, the upheaval in Moscow has complicated a central aim of American foreign policy over the last two years: maintaining influence in Western Europe.
 
Justification for NATO
 "We've been talking for some time now about how to manage the breakdown of the cold war institutions, like NATO, without boxing us out of Europe," an Administration official said. "That was hard enough with the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and it's much harder now."
 The United States will be "looking to the European Community to pick up a major share of the financial burden" as Soviet republics emerge as countries, an American official said.
 The Bush Administration was confident before the coup that it had forestalled the demise of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, but that debate is now rejoined. What will justify NATO's existence if there is no Soviet military from which to protect Western Europe?
 Caspar W. Weinberger, the former Secretary of Defense, argued that the military threat was not gone as long as whatever form of country emerged retained an enormous nuclear arsenal and a large conventional military.
 But Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said the United States should consider a security system that might include Poland, Hungary and even some former Soviet republics, like the Baltics, after they are free. "We ought to take a careful look at people who share our same ethos for democracy and market economics and right now are in a netherworld with regard to security," Mr. Lugar said.
 
Questions About Asia
 The Bush Administration also faces important questions about its dealings with Asia, where the Soviet Union is less important and Japan is increasingly powerful.
 Domestically, the Administration will argue that there is a need for a strong American military, citing the threat posed by Iraq last summer as a clear example. That may buy some time. But it is increasingly apparent that with the potential breakup of the Soviet Union, the current basis for American nuclear policy may not be enough to hold a consensus for military spending.
 Despite all the changes of the last two years, that policy is still based on the principle of "strategic deterrence" -- the amassing of nuclear weapons, initially to deter a Soviet attack on Western Europe and more recently to deter a Soviet nuclear attack.
 The American intelligence community, as well, is being challenged to change from an organization devoted to spying on the Soviet Union and thwarting its foreign policy to one that deals with a more diverse world.
 As perceptions and attitudes change, longstanding principles are already colliding with pragmatic goals. In the Soviet Union, the United States is torn between its support for self-determination and the Administration's belief that central control over the military, trade and foreign aid and some aspects of foreign policy is desirable to maintain stability.
 
Political Considerations
 Politically, Republicans have held on to the White House in large measure because of the perception that their party has been better equipped to safeguard the national security, even if opinion polls say that they do not handle the economy as well as Democrats.
 But the disappearance of a Soviet enemy stands that notion on its head. It may no longer be enough simply to argue, as Mr. Bush does, that the United States has a responsibility to keep the peace and, in fact, is the only country that can do so.
 "People are very proud of the fact that the United States is the superpower and the leader in the world," Mr. Hamilton said. "At the same time, they think we can better solve our problems at home if we scale down our efforts overseas. They've got a real doubt in their minds about whether they want to pay the taxes and send the young men and women abroad in support of that role."
 As the Soviet Union undergoes its metamorphosis, even vocabularies will haveto change. American officials now grope for a word to describe the Soviet Union. Certainly, the word "Kremlin" is losing its symbolism as the monolith of Soviet power. Hard-line, conservative, liberal, Communist, all have new meanings -- or no meaning at all.
 There is little in the modern American experience to prepare Washington for this upheaval.
 "The challenge now is the transformation of a vast empire and that was never part of our agenda," said Richard Perle, former Assistant Secretary of Defense.
 Mr. Perle added: "Our international agenda for 40 years was much more modest, to cope with the Soviet Union, which we saw as a military threat, not to transform the Soviet Union itself. Even the rollback policy, which was considered adventurist in the cold war, never contemplated involving the United States in the transformation of Soviet society or the Soviet republics."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush returning to the club house after a downpour cancelled his golf game yesterday in Kennebunkport, Me. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (50%); NEW WORLD WINES (50%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR;
REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); POLITICS (67%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1991



38 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Focus: The Southeast;
Home Builders Are Hungering for Credit

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: ANDERSON, S.C.

 BODY:
SAM HAMMOND usually builds 10 houses a year in this northwestern South Carolina city and its vicinity. But so far this year, he has built just one. And he had to use his own money to do it.
Several hundred miles south of here in Fort Myers, Fla., a golf course and surrounding middle-income housing development probably will not be built at all. Larry Swank, a builder and developer in Nappanee, Ind., and four others cannot borrow the money to buy the land. 
 And east of here, in Columbia, S.C., Bill Johnston may lose Federal tax credits because he has not found a permanent loan for a low-income apartment complex, despite eight months of searching.
The National Association of Home Builders estimates that 15 percent of the nation's 390,000 builders have ceased building houses, due in large measure to the problems they've had borrowing money.
Here in the Southeast, the so-called "credit crunch" has driven some builders into bankruptcy, while others have sought work in other fields. Some are taking odd jobs, renovations and the like, to get them through the lean times.
"Most of them are just devastated," said Ken Mitchell, the executive director of the North Carolina Home Builders Association. "Through no fault of their own," he said, builders of all sizes and experience have been hurt.
"It's as if you've been branded," said Mr. Swank, the president of the Sterling Group in Nappanee, Ind., a suburb of Elkhart. "You walk into a bank and you feel like the word developer or real estate is printed on your forehead. The window goes down before you even ask the first question."
But banking spokesmen say that in a recession, they would be deemed imprudent if they continued to make borrowing money easy.
"I like to use the analogy that the economic road is still bumpy," said Tara Little, a spokeswoman for the American Banking Association in Washington. "The lending organizations are trying to drive carefully and cautiously. The regulators are saying slow down. The developers are honking and beeping."
Builders say they first felt a credit pinch in August 1989, when Congress passed the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act. The act, adopted in the wake of the savings and loan crisis, sharply reduced the amount of money savings and loans could lend to any one developer. The institutions had long been a primary financing source for home builders, some of whom already owed the maximum allowed under the new standards. S. & L.'s called loans due or reduced limits.
Money became scarcer still with the Federal takeover of failed savings and loans and banks. Builders counted on banks to fill the void, but six months later, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal regulatory agency for banks, issued a letter warning against real-estate lending.
"It's almost as though somebody wrote the script and said, 'This is the way it is no matter who walks through your doors,' " said Mr. Swank. "The bank examiners are choreographing this."
Examiners from the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation generally review financial institutions' books annually, and those relying heavily on real-estate loans receive more scrutiny.
But Mark Burneko, a spokesman for the American Banking Association, said that was expected because of the rapid devaluation of property in many sections of the country, especially in New England, Washington and south Florida.
"For better or worse there is a stigma attached to real estate, especially because of the precipitous drop in the value of real estate," said Mr. Burneko. "It's a matter of banks still having to be prudent in evaluating a loan and knowing that an examiner is going to be particularly scrupulous in looking at that loan."
He said money had also been scarce because the 1988 Basel Accord, an international agreement to standardize banking capital requirements, called for banks in all industrial nations to place more of their own money at risk for any sort of loan, and because the Federal Deposit Insurance premiums have increased 300 percent since 1989.
BUILDERS say they were heartened by the July 30 injunction by the Comptroller's office to member banks to make sound loans to sound builders. But so far, builders say, they have yet to see an improvement.
Mr. Swank said that over the last 18 months he had been turned down and his credit limits reduced, despite his 30 years in the business and a flawless record of building 30 apartment complexes. His company owns and manages 54 complexes in three states.
His bank also has imposed a host of new restrictions before he can build a single house in a subdivision.
"It really is overkill," he said. In addition, he said builders face higher origination fees, or up-front fees on loans, and higher interest rates.
He said he believes that banks are refusing real-estate loans in an effort to make their balance sheets look "lily white" to attract a buyer or to take part in the high- stakes merger fever sweeping the banking industry today.
And, he added, regional banks are less likely than community banks to lend money to developers. "My banks are 225 miles away in Detroit or 275 miles away in Cleveland," he said. "I don't know these loan officers and they don't know me or my business."
Mrs. Little countered: "Isn't it good business for anyone to have a good balance sheet? They look at that on a daily basis. It's not as if they haven't done this for 10 years."
MR. JOHNSTON, meanwhile, says his South Carolina project is one of two he is unable to borrow money to build. He experienced problems getting a permanent loan for a Lithonia, Ga., project after his original lender went into bankruptcy.
He sought a $3.9 million loan on a 132-unit low-income apartment complex valued at $5.5 million, but could get only $3.2 million.
"We had a perfect record and it was a cash flowing project," said Mr. Johnston, president of the Norsouth Corporation in Savannah, Ga., which builds and manages low-income housing in four Southeastern states.
Mr. Johnston and Mr. Swank, who also builds apartment complexes, say low-income families will be hardest hit by the new credit restrictions.
"We have a homeless problem now, but by 1995, it will be much worse," said Mr. Swank. Fewer than 200,000 apartments for low-income families will be built this year, but 75,000 to 100,000 more are needed.
Mr. Hammond said that tight credit had also hurt his subcontractors and suppliers. At the house he is building here, which is under contract, he said, he persuaded the subcontractors to wait for payment until the house was sold.
"I did it just to get something going," he said. "The pressures of building are just getting worse and worse."
At 36, he has been building houses for 15 years, but is thinking of calling it quits. He said he owns a small building here that might do nicely as a video rental store.
"I could sell hot dogs, drinks, anything to make a few hundred," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Hammond, a builder, and his son, Shane, working on their home in Anderson, S.C. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (56%); NORTH CAROLINA HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS NORTH CAROLINA HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CREDIT; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



39 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Southeast's Builders Hungering for Credit

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: ANDERSON, S.C.

 BODY:
Sam Hammond usually builds 10 houses a year in this northwestern South Carolina city and its vicinity. But so far this year, he has built just one. And he had to use his own money to do it.
Several hundred miles south of here in Fort Myers, Fla., a golf course and surrounding middle-income housing development probably will not be built at all. Larry Swank, a builder and developer in Nappanee, Ind., and four others cannot borrow the money to buy the land. 
 And east of here, in Columbia, S.C., Bill Johnston may lose Federal tax credits because he has not found a permanent loan for a low-income apartment complex, despite eight months of searching.
The National Association of Home Builders estimates that 15 percent of the nation's 390,000 builders have ceased building houses, due in large measure to the problems they've had borrowing money.
Here in the Southeast, the so-called "credit crunch" has driven some builders into bankruptcy, while others have sought work in other fields. Some are taking odd jobs, renovations and the like, to get them through the lean times.
"Most of them are just devastated," said Ken Mitchell, the executive director of the North Carolina Home Builders Association. "Through no fault of their own," he said, builders of all sizes and experience have been hurt.
"It's as if you've been branded," said Mr. Swank, the president of the Sterling Group in Nappanee, Ind., a suburb of Elkhart. "You walk into a bank and you feel like the word developer or real estate is printed on your forehead. The window goes down before you even ask the first question."
But banking spokesmen say that in a recession, they would be deemed imprudent if they continued to make borrowing money easy.
"I like to use the analogy that the economic road is still bumpy," said Tara Little, a spokeswoman for the American Banking Association in Washington. "The lending organizations are trying to drive carefully and cautiously. The regulators are saying slow down. The developers are honking and beeping."
Builders say they first felt a credit pinch in August 1989, when Congress passed the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act. The act, adopted in the wake of the savings and loan crisis, sharply reduced the amount of money savings and loans could lend to any one developer. The institutions had long been a primary financing source for home builders, some of whom already owed the maximum allowed under the new standards. S. & L.'s called loans due or reduced limits.
Money became scarcer still with the Federal takeover of failed savings and loans and banks. Builders counted on banks to fill the void, but six months later, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal regulatory agency for banks, issued a letter warning against real-estate lending.
"It's almost as though somebody wrote the script and said, 'This is the way it is no matter who walks through your doors,' " said Mr. Swank. "The bank examiners are choreographing this."
Examiners from the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation generally review financial institutions' books annually, and those relying heavily on real-estate loans receive more scrutiny.
But Mark Burneko, a spokesman for the American Banking Association, said that was expected because of the rapid devaluation of property in many sections of the country, especially in New England, Washington and south Florida.
"For better or worse there is a stigma attached to real estate, especially because of the precipitous drop in the value of real estate," said Mr. Burneko. "It's a matter of banks still having to be prudent in evaluating a loan and knowing that an examiner is going to be particularly scrupulous in looking at that loan."
He said money had also been scarce because the 1988 Basel Accord, an international agreement to standardize banking capital requirements, called for banks in all industrial nations to place more of their own money at risk for any sort of loan, and because the Federal Deposit Insurance premiums have increased 300 percent since 1989.
Builders say they were heartened by the July 30 injunction by the Comptroller's office to member banks to make sound loans to sound builders. But so far, builders say, they have yet to see an improvement.
Mr. Swank said that over the last 18 months he had been turned down and his credit limits reduced, despite his 30 years in the business and a flawless record of building 30 apartment complexes. His company owns and manages 54 complexes in three states.
His bank also has imposed a host of new restrictions before he can build a single house in a subdivision.
"It really is overkill," he said. In addition, he said builders face higher origination fees, or up-front fees on loans, and higher interest rates.
He says he believes that banks are refusing real-estate loans in an effort to make their balance sheets look "lily white" to attract a buyer or to take part in the high- stakes merger fever sweeping the banking industry today.
And, he said, regional banks are less likely than community banks to lend money to developers.
"My banks are 225 miles away in Detroit or 275 miles away in Cleveland," he said. "I don't know these loan officers and they don't know me or my business."
Mrs. Little countered: "Isn't it good business for anyone to have a good balance sheet? They look at that on a daily basis. It's not as if they haven't done this for 10 years."
Mr. Johnston, meanwhile, says his South Carolina project is one of two he is unable to borrow money to build. He experienced problems getting a permanent loan for a Lithonia, Ga., project after his original lender went into bankruptcy.
He sought a $3.9 million loan on a 132-unit low-income apartment complex valued at $5.5 million, but could get only $3.2 million.
"We had a perfect record and it was a cash flowing project," said Mr. Johnston, president of the Norsouth Corporation in Savannah, Ga., which builds and manages low-income housing in four Southeastern states.
Mr. Johnston and Mr. Swank, who also builds apartment complexes, say low-income families will be hardest hit by the new credit restrictions.
"We have a homeless problem now, but by 1995, it will be much worse," said Mr. Swank. Fewer than 200,000 apartments for low-income families will be built this year, but 75,000 to 100,000 more are needed.
Mr. Hammond said that tight credit had also hurt his subcontractors and suppliers. At the house he is building here, which is under contract, he said, he persuaded the subcontractors to wait for payment until the house was sold.
"I did it just to get something going," he said. "The pressures of building are just getting worse and worse."
At 36, he has been building houses for 15 years, but is thinking of calling it quits. He said he owns a small building here that might do nicely as a video rental store.
"I could sell hot dogs, drinks, anything to make a few hundred," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Hammond, a builder, and his son, Shane, working on their home in Anderson, S.C. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (56%); NORTH CAROLINA HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CAROLINA HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANDERSON (SC) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING; CREDIT REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



40 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 21; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Companies Juggle to Adapt to New Limits on Student Hours

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
COUNTY businesses with many young employees are preparing to meet new state regulations that take effect today sharply limiting the number of hours youths can work while school is in session.
The laws, which were supported by parent-teacher organizations countywide to allow 16- and 17-year-olds more time to study, include provisions that make the state's Child Labor Law one of the strictest in the United States. 
 Under the law, 16- and 17-year-olds who had been allowed to work up to 48 hours a week and as late as midnight when school was in session are now permitted only 28 hours of work a week and none later than 10 P.M. on school days.
The regulations will cause some disruptions in businesses like fast-food restaurants, which traditionally employ young people, said Janann Williams, personnel manager of McDonald's restaurants in the New York region, which includes Westchester.
 
New Work Schedules
 "We're preparing to juggle work schedules and make changes, especially in the late-night shifts," Ms. Williams said. "But the state is giving us three months to make the changes."
And there also is a provision in the law that allows students who keep up their grades to work past 10 P.M. "Students who bring in an academic certificate from school saying their grades are good, plus a written note of permission from their parents, will be able to work past 10," Ms. Williams said.
Had the law gone into effect several years ago, Ms. Williams added, it would have posed more serious problems.
"Ten years ago, most of our restaurants were staffed by teen-agers," she said. "Now we have more of a mix of ages, and we're hiring a lot of mature workers that include retirees and people who are working two jobs."
Rita D'Agostino, the manager of a McDonald's on Yonkers Avenue in Yonkers, said only 10 teen-age workers at her store would be affected. "Although we're open until 2 A.M. every day, I don't see any big problems," Ms. D'Agostino said. "We have 90 people on various shifts here, and I hope we'll be able to move some of them around. Because of the recession, we've had a lot of job applicants. A few years ago, when jobs were hard to fill, it would have been harder for us."
Ms. D'Agostino, who started working part time in the Yonkers restaurant eight years ago and rose through the ranks to become manager, predicted that her teen-age workers, who were used to earning $150 for 36 hours a week, might have to make some adjustments.
"I hope they'll be able to bring in the consent forms that allow them to work longer," she said, "because a lot of them are saving their money for college."
Since she began working at the Yonkers McDonald's last year, 17-year-old Carmen Pluas, has been saving her wages for college. But Carmen, who will be a senior at Saunders High School in Yonkers this fall, said the new law would not affect her.
"Because my parents don't like me to work at night, I have been working on weekends only, from 7 A.M. to 3 o'clock in the afternoon on Saturdays and Sundays," she said, "I make $55 a weekend, and it is adding up."
Ms. Pluas, who said she plans to study business administration in college, added that she found working at McDonald's valuable because "you can watch and see how a business is run."
The regulations limiting student working hours were proposed by a panel appointed by Commissioner Thomas F. Hartnett of the State Department of Labor. The panel spent three years studying the situation, said Assemblywoman Cecile D. Singer. The Republican of the 84th district, which includes parts of Yonkers, Tuckahoe, East Chester, Scarsdale and White Plains, voted for the bill.
 
Sleeping in Class>
 "They found that high school students, avid to earn as much money as they could, were actually falling asleep in the classrooms and neglecting their schoolwork because they were working so many hours," Ms. Singer said. "It got to the point that every school district in Westchester and every P.T.A. has been pushing for this bill for several years now."
When asked about the possible adverse effects of the bill on single-parent households that may need the wages of teen-agers, Assemblywoman Singer said: "We agonized over that. But the bill was passed for the good of the majority of high school students, after it was discovered that almost all of them who were working were working to buy things like cars or for more spending money."
Ms. Singer emphasized that the bill was not intended to be punitive. "We believe we've given students and businesses plenty of time to adapt. Students who keep their grades up should have no problems with it."
 
40-Hour Weeks Elsewhere
 In Connecticut and New Jersey, 16- and 17-year-olds can work up to 40 hours a week and until 11 P.M. on school days. But Peter Samaha, the co-owner of seven McDonald's restaurants in Westchester, some close to the Connecticut border, said he has no plans to staff those restaurants with Connecticut youths.
"I'm in favor of the bill," Mr. Samaha said. "McDonald's corporate policy gives the highest priority to education for young people. I'm not anticipating any disruptions.
"We might have had difficulties a few years back when the economy was booming and fast-food restaurants found it hard to fill positions, but with the recession now we have people of all ages working at our McDonald's. I think we'll have enough older employees to fill the late-night slump."
Louis Patin, the manager of Dunkin' Donuts in Mamaroneck, agreed, saying he had been able to hire enough full-time older workers to fill almost all his staffing needs.
"We are open around the clock, 24 hours a day," he said. "While we had a couple of teen-agers working for six-hour shifts in the summer and on the weekends, they are in the minority now."
 
Many People Became Available
 Mr. Patin added, "When the economy took a dive, a lot of people became available to work. We have people here who have lost their jobs, who are working two jobs, some who are retired and need additional income."
Kathleen Ali, a college graduate with a degree in marketing, is a single parent who lives in the Wakefield section of the Bronx and works in Westchester. Ms. Ali said she approved of the new law because she thought it would make it easier for parents who don't want their children to work at night to say no.
Ms. Ali, who is from Trinidad and who said her four children, aged 14 to 25, have always done well in school, said she felt that the new law backs up parents who believe that getting an education should be the first concern of young people.
"When my oldest children -- my daughter is now at Lehman College and my son is studying to become a priest -- begged me to let them work at night, I refused," she said. "I told them they had to be home when the street lights were turned on."
As a result, she said: "My daughter found a job in a bookstore and my son found several good part-time daytime jobs. In the evening they knew they had to concentrate on their schoolwork. I am very strict about that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmen Pluas, left, a 17-year-old senior at Saunders High School working at MacDonald's in Yonkers. Even before the new law, her parents did not want her to work at night. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WORKING HOURS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; YOUTH, EMPLOYMENT OF; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (88%); COUNTIES (79%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



41 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
A Charitable Overlay For 90's Networking

BYLINE: By Nancy Marx Better

 BODY:
On a breezy August evening, a crowd of businesspeople gathered at a penthouse above Central Park to sip gin and tonics, watch the sun set over the Manhattan skyline and gossip about the scandal at Salomon Brothers, the botched Soviet coup and the bankruptcy of real estate developer Peter Kalikow. Then a tall brunette dressed in black called for attention.
"We're here tonight to do something great for civilization," said Carol Treadwell. "We're going to participate in the event of a lifetime, and help save the earth in the process." 
 A tall order, perhaps. But Ms. Treadwell is director of the Millennium Society, a charitable group with a clear agenda: Throw the biggest party in history, on Dec. 31, 1999. Some 2,000 members are expected to travel to Egypt aboard the Queen Elizabeth II to ring in the year 2000 at the Great Pyramid of Cheops. Those who can't afford the trip needn't fret; the Millennium Society plans celebrations in each of the globe's 24 time zones, at sites including Stonehenge, Red Square and the Taj Mahal.
The Millennium Society has another mission as well, and it was apparent at the party. It's networking in the politically correct manner of the 1990's. The tactics are subtler and more sophisticated than in the 80's; the rubric is social activism, rather than overt economic gain. The "new" networking is about looking after others' interests, instead of one's own. But the impetus remains the same -- forging personal connections that foster professional advancement.
"Over the past few years, it's become an incredible network," said Edward Mcnally, chairman of the Millennium Society, who is the District Attorney in Anchorage, Alaska. "There's a strong corporate aspect to our membership, so it's a great way to meet people in the business world."
Networking has changed, said James Cabrera, president of Drake Beam Morin Inc., a New York-based outplacement firm. Instead of tossing business cards into fishbowls at singles' bars, executives are seeking out people with similar interests and backgrounds. "People are more specific about who they network with now," he said.
A glance around the society's fundraiser revealed plenty of phone numbers being scratched on cocktail napkins. One woman in a navy blue suit, who identified herself as a corporate lawyer, said she came to meet people -- not necessarily in a professional capacity. "I thought maybe I could find a date for the 1999 party," she said.
Nearby stood Tex McCrary, the group's president, who runs his own New York public relations company. He carried a crystal ball, and invited guests to predict what the Dow Jones average -- or Japan's Nikkei -- would be in 1999. "Normally, people start wallowing in nostalgia toward the end of a century," Mr. McCrary said. "We're doing just the opposite."
The Millennium Society also has a secondary goal: to endow a $100 million scholarship program designed to promote cultural exchange. "We wanted to leave a legacy," said Ms. Treadwell, former director of investor communications at Prudential-Bache Inc. "We didn't want to wake up the day after the biggest party in history with nothing left."
Founded in 1979 by a couple of college students, the Millennium Society has grown to 6,000 members worldwide. Today it's a nonprofit Section 501 (c)(3) charity with a dozen chapters -- composed mostly of young executives -- in New York, Washington, Chicago, London, Tokyo and other cities.
Capitalizing on its attractive demographics -- the average age of members is about 35, and most earn more than $50,000 -- the group has already signed up Tiffany & Co. and Absolut Vodka as sponsors of its 1999 celebration. That's not all. "We're looking to choose the official film, the official soft drink, the official airline, the official automobile for the year 2000," Ms. Treadwell said.
Oddly enough, this ploy may pay off. According to Paul Saffo, an analyst at the Institute for Future Studies in Menlo Park, Calif., businesses will soon be afflicted by millennial fever. "Marketers are in for a decade-long silly season that will intensify as we approach the year 2000," he said. "The millennium is a powerful undercurrent that will seep through consumers' consciousness. It'll be harder to target different groups and sell to them."
Millennial fever may not be limited just to businesses. Academics already show signs of the affliction. To wit: "The millennium has intense symbolic meaning for the baby-boom generation," said Douglas Labier, a psychoanalyst and director of the Project on Adult Lives in Washington. "They're filled with anxiety about the future, and yearning for meaningful transition in their lives. The year 2000 is fraught with signficance for them."
Not all of them. Alden M. Richards, chief executive of Space Machine Advisors Inc., a New York-based econometrics firm, didn't fork over $19.99 to join the Millennium Society because of an apocalyptic vision. "When I think about the year 2000, I think mostly about being able to address letters to my clients the following year with the date 2001," he said.
Recognizing their generation's shifting Zeitgeist, the society's leaders are focusing less on partying and more on charity. This year, the group sponsored four students -- called "Millennium Scholars" -- at H.R.H. the Prince of Wales' United World Colleges.
And should the millennium generation's Zeitgeist swerve again -- back toward hedonism and away from charity -- there will be a chance for another round of partying. As Mr. Saffo likes to point out: "The millennium really occurs at the end of 2000, not 1999. They're throwing their big bash on the wrong date."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (64%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EGYPT (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MILLENNIUM SOCIETY LEE HECHT HARRISON INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILLENNIUM SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EGYPT (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES CHARITIES (88%); FUNDRAISING (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAWYERS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BETTER, NANCY MARX ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1991



42 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Aliens Law Shouldn't Lead to Fear of Hiring

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Aug. 7 article on recent increased enforcement of sanctions against employers of illegal aliens points out contradictions and challenges of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which aimed to welcome illegal immigrants with histories of residence and employment in the United States through "amnesty" and to discourage employment of new arrivals through fines for employers of illegal aliens. 
 You mention that a General Accounting Office report showed widespread employment discrimination against legal immigrants as a result of the sanctions [some editions].
Employer sanctions were opposed by Hispanic, immigrant and other civil rights groups including the Hermandad Mexicana Nacional during the debate preceding passage of the 1986 legislation. Those groups have described the law as the only piece of legislation in United States history that institutionalizes employment discrimination against a minority. Much of immigration-related discrimination would disappear with the repeal of sanctions.
As long as employer sanctions are with us, however, our best chance of assuring equal employment opportunity in this country is to support and heed the Justice Department's campaign of public education regarding the antidiscrimination provisions of the 1986 legislation. The department's Office of Special Counsel, through a national competition begun last year, awards grants to community agencies to inform workers and employers on their rights and responsibilities with regard to the hiring of work-authorized immigrants, refugees and those granted asylum.
Thanks to these public education efforts, immigrants in communities where grants have been made are learning to identify discrimination, and employers in violation of the anti
discrimination provisions are being investigated and prosecuted. Employers who ask for work-authorization documents at the time of application, rather than waiting until the time of hiring, or who are "playing it safe" and hiring only native-born applicants, are among those subject to penalties for discrimination.
Since discriminatory practices are the result of lack of understanding of the 1986 law and fear of sanctions on the part of employers, the public information campaign aims to provide the business community with accurate and up-to-date information, so that employers can offer foreign-born job applicants the same opportunities as natives.
The Office of Special Counsel's public education program is thus of mutual benefit to immigrants and employers. It will allow immigrants to continue to make the contribution to the United States economy they have made historically, and it will enable the business community to make informed and optimal decisions in the hiring of new employees.
The program, with little more than $1 million available this year, is working well in communities where public education grants have been awarded, but it needs and deserves more resources. To educate all those who look foreign or who speak English with an accent, as well as every employer with four or more employees in this country, is an enormous challenge.
The Justice Department has taken on that challenge, but with modest funds. Upon the success of its public education campaign depends not only the economic advancement of America's newest residents and their employers, but also our society's well-being.
 
MARGO CORONA DE LEY
President, Hermandad Mexicana
Nacional Legal Center
Chicago, Aug. 12, 1991

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); AMNESTY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



43 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Folks Back Home Do Give a Hoot How '80 Election Was Won

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Responding to the coming Congressional investigation of whether or not the 1980 Reagan campaign improperly interfered with the attempt to secure the return of American hostages in Iran, House Minority Leader Bob Michel said that he didn't think the people back home gave two hoots about what happened 10 years ago (news article, Aug. 6). 
 I am 78 years old. I was a construction worker and now run a small business. I have lived through one major depression, two world wars and other national crises and traumas. I am an ordinary American. My wife and I have struggled to raise a family, provide for their education, insure their health care and prepare them for a better future.
Now, largely as the result of Federal policies during the last decade, I believe my grandchildren face dimmer prospects than their parents did because of what happened 10 years ago. They have been robbed of at least some of their future, in part because of the kind of arrogance in Washington that has led politicians to believe they can get away with anything because "the people back home don't care two hoots."
The people back home do care two hoots about what happened 10 years ago. We all know Jimmy Carter lost the election, but we do give two hoots about how he lost and about how Ronald Reagan won.
We give lots of hoots about the Iran-contra affair and why Mr. Reagan did not know what was happening in his own Rose Garden; about the scandal at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the savings and loan scandal and the Bank of Credit and Commerce International scandal and how they have all picked the ordinary taxpayer's pocket.
And we give a few hoots too that American families can no longer afford to send their children to college, can no longer afford to pay for medical care and must increasingly have two wage earners to make ends meet.
We care about what happened 10 years ago and how we came to have a multi-hundred-billion-dollar deficit, and how that deficit has begun to erode our Social Security and Medicare systems, as well as other essential services.
We care about our declining school systems, the growing economic disasters in our cities and the loss of hope. We care about the rising numbers of homeless in our streets -- not even in the Great Depression did I see that -- and we wonder how long we will be paying for the economic plundering that began 10 years ago. Those of us who came to adulthood during a world war that was fought to resist a brutal dictator wonder why we continue to support and supply murderous regimes in places like El Salvador and Peru.
Back home, we do care. And we are furious that Mr. Michel and so many of his colleagues in Washington apparently do not.
 
SIDNEY GLASSER
New York, Aug. 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; HOSTAGES; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1980 LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MEDICARE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (64%); CITIES (64%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



44 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Publishing;
An Ailing, Murky Industry Looks for Signs of Change

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen

 BODY:
AT the National Book Award ceremony last year, Catharine Stimpson, the chairman of the fiction jury, declared that American writing was marked by an astonishing vitality and vigor. She was swiftly followed on the podium by the author Saul Bellow, who said he had never known the country's literature to be in such a lamentably lifeless state.
It is the third rule of publishing that no two people will agree on anything, even where to have lunch. (The first rule is that there is only one thing worse than losing an auction for a book -- and that is winning it. The second is that it is nearly always more profitable to leave your money in the bank than to venture into trade-book publishing, where a profit margin of even 5 percent is elusive.) 
 The third rule is central to the business because it underscores one central fact: nothing in publishing is demonstrably true. Optimism and pessimism, fact and rumor, statistics and guesswork mingle so completely that objective certitude and this industry bear as much relation to each other as an Argentine steak and a vegetarian dinner.
Even the most basic question of when a book is sold remains nebulous. Publishers like to think that when they have shipped a book to a store, it is "sold." But in fact, stores can always return unsold books to publishers. So many of the "sales" publishers talk about amount to no more than what Steve Wasserman, the editorial director of Times Books, calls "wishful thinking." As a result, everything from authors' royalty statements to industry sales figures remains hopelessly vague.
Despairing of this state of things, and of the sometimes-nasty rumors that are the lifeblood of a $17 billion industry, Richard E. Snyder, the chief executive of Simon & Schuster, said recently: "People in this business can be so mean. That is why I have two dogs that I love!"
The pressure on publishers to look to their dogs for consolation has been particularly strong of late. Sales are very weak. Even the most die-hard optimists concede that the notion of publishing being recession-proof has been shown to be nonsense. Thinking more carefully about what to buy, consumers feel they can do without buying hardcover books.
So a profound change, it seems, is taking place. After a decade of rapid sales growth, which fueled a rapid rise in the money that authors were able to command for their books, a period of retrenchment has begun.
"In the 90's, there is going to be a lot of pressure on us to be lean and to be mean," said Alberto Vitale, the chief executive of Random House.
Lean and mean almost certainly means fewer people and fewer books. Layoffs at companies from Simon & Schuster to Farrar, Straus & Giroux have been proceeding quietly. The lists of published books have not shrunk as fast as work forces because, as most publishers see it, the fewer books you publish the less chance you have of a best seller.
But Viking Penguin, for example, intends to cut its list by about 25 percent. And Morgan Entrekin, the new president and publisher of the Atlantic Monthly Press, is cutting the house's list by more than 30 percent.
"There are too many books and too much staff in publishing today," he said. "Margins have shrunk and something has to give. Whether it is a day away or a month or a year, I do not know. But there will be a day of reckoning."
Before that day, some of the vast media conglomerates that bought into the industry over the last decade may tire of it and sell off houses.
Advances to authors are likely to come down gradually. Publishers love to lament that they are paying too much for books, but when their blood is up, their capacity for self-delusion remains as vigorous as ever.
"We are paying millions for books for which we should be paying $750,000, and $500,000 for books worth $100,000 and $50,000 for those worth $20,000," said Joseph Fox, a Random House senior editor. "It's crazy."
Even in this summer's doldrums, Random House paid a reported $375,000 to Nathan McCall of The Washington Post for a book about growing up as a black male in America, and Alfred A. Knopf has paid more than $400,000 for a novel by Donna Tartt. Neither of these writers has ever had a book published before.
But optimism is the opium of the publisher. Hope sustains him even as book after book disappears without a trace, dead as commercial propositions after two-week lives and five-year pregnancies. "Against the odds, you have to believe in every book," said John Sterling, the editor in chief of Houghton Mifflin.
Romanticism still runs strong. Amid all the rubbish published -- and most people agree that it is more abundant than ever -- many publishers still dream of finding the undiscovered Joyce or Hemingway of the 1990's and believe that what they do contributes in some way to culture and learning.
Some say these publishers are naive, hapless participants in a losing battle, dinosaurs in an age of space shuttles. Videos and cable television, Nintendo and falling literacy rates have all been identified as spelling death for the book industry.
But you can't take a video to bed or the beach; reading remains the cheapest form of sustained entertainment, and millions of Americans still like it. The fact is that bookstores have mushroomed in the 1980s and, with the help of new computer technology, they are becoming larger and better than ever. More space means more room for backlist titles -- the older books on which publishers really profit because their costs have already been defrayed.
Whatever happens, one thing is sure: nobody will really know what is going on, so the margin for muddling through is likely to be very large.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES PUBLISHING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); WRITERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (88%); RETAIL SALES (87%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DOGS (61%); LAYOFFS (60%); MEAT FREE DIETS (56%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER SAUL BELLOW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



45 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Recovery In Housing Is Erratic

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
After five months of robust sales gains during the spring and early summer, the nation's housing markets have lapsed into a sluggish, uneven recovery. Still, prices are increasing gradually in most areas, while new construction is rising steadily.
"This is a very weak and spotty recovery," said David Shulman, a real estate analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc. He said he did not expect home sales and housing construction to rebound swiftly, in contrast to what happened after previous recessions and housing slumps. 
 Real estate experts said the erratic nature of the upturn was underscored last week by reports that new-home sales in July had fallen 8.5 percent and that sales of existing homes were down 6.7 percent, compared with June. That followed sharp rises in each month since February.
 
Little Comfort for Builders
 July is normally the peak of the summer buying season for families with school-age children, and the weak sales offered little comfort to frustrated builders and home sellers in some regions, particuarly the expensive areas of the California coast and the Northeast, where prices have plummeted by more than 20 percent during the last two years.
But despite the July drop, analysts said the housing markets were stronger than a year ago and far more robust than during the second half of 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait led to a steep decline in consumer confidence that was most apparent in home sales.
It may be sloppy, these people said, but it is still a recovery.
"It would be a mistake to jump to the conclusion that the recovery is now over," said Lyle E. Gramley, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. He said mortgage interest rates, down a full percentage point from a year ago, should continue to decline, attracting more home buyers.
 
'The Economy Is Still Weak'
 The downturn in July might have been expected after the sharp increase in sales earlier in the year, he said, adding, "People were euphoric at the resolution of the Persian Gulf war, but it didn't take long to wake up and realize the unemployment is still high and the economy still weak."
The robust sales earlier in the year were reflected in the second quarter, when sales of existing homes rose 3.5 percent, compared with the 1990 quarter. The pace of housing construction, which rose each month since March, continued to quicken in July, climbing 3.7 percent, to an annual rate of 1.07 million housing starts.
Median selling prices have also risen steadily, but at a far slower rate than during the booming 1980's. The National Association of Realtors said the median for July was $103,000, up 1 percent from June and 12 percent from the depth of the slump in December, when it was $91,700.
Compared with the mid-1980's, the housing market remains slack. The National Association of Home Builders predicted that new construction, despite recent gains, would be lower for 1991 than in any year since 1945.
Conditions in the beleaguered Northeast have improved, but remain weak. The region has been in a housing slump for more than three years, and real estate executives say some sellers are being forced to accept prices more than 30 percent below what they might have received in 1988.
Sales volume in the Northeast increased 6.3 percent in the second quarter, and 5.5 percent in July, compared with a year earlier. The gains were the biggest of any region, the realtors group said. But a separate analysis of median sales prices during the second quarter, compared with a year earlier, found them decreasing. The median was down 1.9 percent in New York City, northern New Jersey and Long Island, to $172,000.
Experts say a decline in the median selling price does not always mean values are decreasing; it can mean simply that more people are buying lower-priced homes. Indeed, increased sales of lower-priced properties could form the basis for a continued increase in demand, as sellers move on to more expensive houses.
 
Some Pessimists Remain
 A small minority of real estate industry executives and experts insist the nation is in for a far more protracted housing slump.
"The trend toward diminishing prices remains intact," said Michael Aronstein, president of Comstock Partners, a Wall Street money-management concern. He predicts a long, deep nationwide decline in house prices that will not end until at least the year 2000, correcting a long and exaggerated upward cycle that began in 1933.
That view gained some currency when the housing slump, which took hold in the Northeast in 1989, spread throughout the nation last year. Another stark prospect was outlined in a 1989 Harvard University study that analyzed demographic changes -- principally the so-called baby bust -- and projected a 3 percent annual decline in housing prices every year until 2007.
But most experts dismiss such theories, saying that lower interest rates and the slow pace of new construction are leading to greater demand and a reduced supply of housing.
 
'Best Investment You Can Make'
 "There have always been doomsayers, but a home is still proving to be the best investment you can make," said H. Lynn Horak, chairman of Norwest Bank Iowa, the largest bank in Des Moines. According to the National Association of Realtors survey, median house prices in his city during the second quarter increased 16.5 percent from the year earlier, to $67,700. It was the biggest gain of any city.
In Southern California, "the recovery is not dramatic, but it is certainly happening," said Jon Douglas, owner of Jon Douglas Real Estate, the largest residential brokerage in Los Angeles.
One constraint, he said, is the conservative appraisal policies that have been adopted by lenders, who have been turning down many more mortgage applications than they did in the 1980's. Mr. Douglas said second-quarter sales brokered by his firm were up 28 percent from year-earlier levels and had doubled from the fall and winter months.
In New Jersey, Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., a large builder that specializes in inexpensive homes, earned a reputation in the 1980's for selling out its new subdivisions within days or even hours. Now, after three years of depressed sales, it is experiencing an upturn.
 
Home Buyers Camp Out
 Hovnanian conducted a sales events on July 27 offering 180 attached, two-story town houses with garages, priced from $128,000 to $145,000, in Bridgewater Township, a community in central New Jersey. Three people camped out overnight to be the first in line, and 81 sales contracts were signed the first day.
"We absolutely see signs of improvement," said Ara Hovnanian, the company's president. He said sales at Bridgewater Township and at other New Jersey projects had been far stronger since March than during the prior two years.
In its second-quarter survey of median selling prices, the National Association of Realtors found an average increase of 4.7 percent, to a nationwide median price of $101,100. In the Northeast, the increase was only five-tenths of 1 percent, to $144,200. Median prices rose 7.5 percent in the West, to $140,800; 4.4 percent in the Midwest, to $77,900, and 2.8 percent in the South, to $89,200.
In a more current measure of housing demand, the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, a trade group that represents mortgage brokers, savings institutiions and commercial banks, said applications for mortgage loans plummeted in December and January, soared in March, April and May, fell back slightly in June, and rebounded to high levels in July.
 
Problem of Tighter Credit
 The group said the data reflected applications by people intending to buy homes, rather than refinance their mortgages. But the study provided no measure of what proportion of the applications were accepted.
Analysts say that with a recovery under way, the policies of lenders will be critical.
Barbara Allen, a housing analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company, said tight credit, while a nuisance to many house hunters, had proved a far greater problem for developers unable to obtain construction financing.
The result, she said, is that housing construction is running far below the levels necessary to keep pace with population growth, which would require more than 1.3 million housing starts a year.
"We are setting ourselves up for a serious shortage of new construction," she said, "and that may very well lead to strong price increases."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Recovering From the Housing Slump" shows the median price of existing single family houses, and the sales rate for existing single family houses from July 1990-July 1991. (Source: National Association of Realtors) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (72%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); DESERT STORM (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (63%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



46 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2582 words

HEADLINE: Health on a Budget/A special report.;
In a Stronghold for H.M.O.'s, One Possible Future Emerges

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
When Michael Boucher was hired this year as one of 300 new teachers in the public schools here, he was offered a choice of two health plans. Both were administered by health maintenance organizations, popularly known as H.M.O.'s.
The limited choice did not seem to bother Mr. Boucher, a social studies teacher at the Folwell Middle School, who said that over the years he had enrolled in three H.M.O.'s, the members of which agree to accept limits on their medical choices in return for low-cost care that emphasizes preventive medicine. Mr. Boucher said he would rejoin the H.M.O. he "belonged to as a kid."
 
Widely Used in Minneapolis
 Minneapolis is a stronghold of the prepaid medical plans, which many experts across the country say are likely to have an essential role in the struggle to slow medical spending. With one of the country's highest rates of H.M.O. membership, 44 percent, this city may provide a glimpse of the future in health care. 
 Nearly everyone in Minneapolis and neighboring St. Paul seems to have an opinion about health maintenance organizations, which have been available here for 20 years. Criticism is plentiful, but in interviews with H.M.O. members, residents, physicians, employers and union officials, the prepaid plans seemed to be widely accepted as an institution that provides good care.
Members of health maintenance organizations have to bring any problems first to an H.M.O. doctor, who takes charge of their case. H.M.O. doctors and nurses are encouraged to practice preventive medicine, which is supposed to help members to stay healthy and out of expensive hospitals. The plans, for example, provide annual checkups, which are not covered by most traditional insurance.
And in an approach experts say has the greatest potential of all to slow the rise in medical bills, physicians are under pressure to avoid ordering diagnostic tests or treatments of questionable value.
The prepaid plans say they maintain high standards because their doctors share information and because the quality of care is always being reviewed. Critics, however, tell stories of some doctors who scrimped by having hospital patients discharged prematurely or by not referring patients to specialists.
But independent doctors in Minnesota and a number of studies say the best prepaid health plans do provide excellent care. A report just published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, a professional journal put out by the American College of Physicians, found the care given to Massachusetts H.M.O. patients was equal to or better than care for those not in H.M.O.'s.
Employers typically negotiate with a health maintenance organization for discounts on premiums or fees, in return for supplying large groups of members. National surveys say H.M.O.'s cost somewhat less than traditional fee-for-service medicine. But business executives still complain that H.M.O. costs keep rising too fast, albeit at a slower pace than those of other insurance plans.
In Minneapolis and St. Paul, employers pay about 72 percent of the H.M.O. cost for their employees, and a family of four would pay about $82 a month for its H.M.O. benefits, said David Beech, a principal in Minneapolis with A. Foster Higgins, a benefits-consulting firm. In addition, many H.M.O. members pay $5 to $10 for each visit to a doctor's office and the same amount for each prescription, but prenatal screenings and well-baby care are typically free.
For traditional health insurance, a family of four in an employee group would pay an average of $60 a month, as well as the first $150 to $250 of its medical bills each year, and then 20 percent of costs until the bills total $2,000. In addition, the family often has to pay for its own prescriptions.
Most businesses hesitate to require every employee to join a health maintenance organization, which might mean forcing them to cut ties to their family doctor. Yet, as businesses are increasingly squeezed by rising medical costs, a growing number of them offer to pay more of the costs for an employee who chooses an H.M.O.
Nationally, H.M.O.'s enrolled 1.7 million new members last year. The Group Health Association of America, an H.M.O. trade group, said membership quadrupled in 10 years, to 36.5 million in 1990, from 9.1 million in 1980.
"Everybody I know is in an H.M.O. of one type or another," said Peggy Steif Abram, a 33-year-old Minneapolis lawyer who recently had her first baby. She said that both the medical care and payment arrangements for her medical bills by the H.M.O. were excellent. H.M.O.'s are popular with women of child-bearing age: at least nine million are members, often attracted by the free checkups and child care.
 
Many Experts Disappointed
 But even as H.M.O.'s spread around the nation, many experts say they have not lived up to their potential at holding down costs. Dr. Paul M. Ellwood, a Minnesota physician and health policy analyst who was a father of the H.M.O. movement in the 1970's, said, "If H.M.O.'s can't do better, they aren't the answer."
But he said health maintenance organizations might yet provide the structure for achieving major savings, if they can learn to measure quality of care more effectively and weed out inefficient services.
Government economists estimate that Americans will spend $738.2 billion on health care this year, a 10 percent increase from $670.9 billion in 1990. After adjusting for inflation in medical and overall living costs, the increase was 4.6 percent,
Dr. Ellwood contends that unless health-care spending is tamed, tighter Government controls are inevitable. Then, he said, "we'll have to prioritize and ration" care by setting ceilings on spending, as most industrial countries do.
Some experts argue that H.M.O.'s have already squeezed much of the waste out of doctoring, especially by reducing hospital stays. Given the flood of expensive new technologies and other cost pressures, they contend, some form of rationing may be inevitable in any case.
 
How H.M.O.'s Work
No Fee Incentive For Extra Visits

In the early years, Dr. Ellwood and other experts promoted health maintenance organizations as a way of bringing market forces to an industry that had been relatively free of competition. Costs had typically not been much of a consideration, and medical bills were rarely questioned.
H.M.O. advocates borrowed ideas from group medical practices like Kaiser Permanente in California and cooperatives like the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound, near Seattle. H.M.O. doctors would work in teams to keep standards high and costs down. With doctors on salary, there would be no incentive to order extra visits or procedures, an inherent problem in fee-for-service medicine.
Other health insurers and doctors, in theory, would have to compete for patients by matching the health maintenance organizations. Employers were required by Federal law to offer an H.M.O. option in their health plans.
But many employees resisted a choice that could require a drive across town to an unfamiliar clinic and doctor. So H.M.O. advocates came up with a new approach: Dozens of self-employed doctors banded together in loosely structured independent-practice associations that offered discounted fees for medical services to employer groups.
In Minneapolis and St. Paul almost every doctor, 4,000 in all, agreed to accept patients from the Physicians Health Plan, an independent-practice association started by members of the county medical society.
So, while some doctors work on H.M.O. staffs, many more serve some of their patients through H.M.O.'s and others in the traditional manner. The American Medical Association says almost half of urban and suburban doctors have at least one H.M.O. contract; many have several.
 
Where Members Are
More in California Than in New York

Almost half the 36.5 million H.M.O. members live in eight large population centers: Los Angeles, San Francisco, the three-state New York City area, Washington-Baltimore, Chicago, Philadelphia-Wilmington, Boston and Minneapolis-St. Paul.
But the prepaid plans are strongest in California, where Kaiser, the nation's largest H.M.O., set the pattern and millions of new residents did not have ties to a family doctor. The Kaiser Foundation Health Plans have 6.5 million members.
The concentration is highest, 46 percent, in the area of San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose and Sacramento, and in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, 44 percent.
In New York, by contrast, most middle-class people resist any limits on their ability to choose freely among the region's many doctors. The Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, which was organized by city employees during the Depression, has one million members. But only 11 percent of the 18 million residents in the New York metropolitan area are in H.M.O.'s.
Other H.M.O.'s with at least one million enrolled include units of the Cigna Corporation, based in Philadelphia; the United Healthcare Corporation, based in Minneapolis; the Aetna Life and Casualty Insurance Company, based in Hartford, and U.S. Healthcare Inc., based in Blue Bell, Pa.
About one-fourth of H.M.O. members work for governments. And a growing number are in H.M.O.'s that contract with the Medicare program for the elderly and disabled or Medicaid programs for the poor.
 
Trade-Offs and Savings
Premiums Rising 10% to 15% in '91

Doctors and employers say the growing strength of health maintenance organizations in cities like Minneapolis, where competition for patients is intense, can bring broader economic benefits, making it harder for hospitals and all doctors to raise their fees.
As a result, while H.M.O. costs were 13 percent lower than those of traditional health insurance in the Minneapolis area, all other medical costs, too, were 10 percent to 14 percent below national averages in 1990, according to A. Foster Higgins, the benefits consulting firm.
But even in Minnesota, health care is one of the fastest-growing expenses for businesses. And nationally, large employers, which are typically self-insured, faced increases of 20 percent to 30 percent in health spending in 1991. H.M.O. premiums are rising by 10 percent to 15 percent.
 
Passing Costs to Employees
 The increases are often passed through to employees, who have to pay a growing portion of their medical bills or forgo wage increases.
"We are outraged at the escalation of costs that we keep eating," said Louise Sundin, president of the Minnesota Federation of Teachers union. But employees in some companies still pay little heed to differences among health plans because the companies pay more than 70 percent of the cost.
Employers said the lowest prices in Minneapolis were offered by Group Health Inc., which has a staff of 330 salaried physicians. Doctors on salary do not file claims for each patient seen, cutting down on time-consuming paperwork that is a growing cost for most American doctors.
Group Health had 285,000 members last year. The Physicians Health Plan, an independent-practice association which offers a wider choice of doctors and offices, had 330,000 members.
 
Two Plans Compared in Study
 The Citizens League, a nonprofit Minneapolis research group, recently compared the 1990 costs of the H.M.O. plans. It said that Group Health members who were under 65 spent less time in hospitals than members of the other H.M.O.'s, and far less than the national averages for H.M.O.'s and other types of health plans.
But Group Health members saw their doctors more often than the other health-plan members, taking advantage of free services like prenatal care.
Patients in Physicians Health Plan, the independent-practice group, saw their doctors less frequently but spent more time in hospitals. Health-care experts say that such groups, which base their fees on services rendered, often find it difficult to persuade their doctors to consider costs when they order care.
The league added that Group Health spent 9.4 percent of its budget on administrative expenses and Physicians Health Plan spent 17.4 percent.
 
Doctors' Worries
Deep Discounts Affecting Salaries
 Experts say that H.M.O.'s are playing an important part in making health care more efficient. "They have changed the whole concept, making it acceptable to patients to have a restricted list of doctors, and acceptable to doctors to be subject to restraints," said Dr. A. Stuart Hanson, chairman of the Park Nicollet Medical Foundation in Minneapolis.
But Minnesota doctors say that the deep H.M.O. discounts have depressed their incomes. Dr. Kent Wilson, an ear, nose and throat specialist in a St. Paul clinic, said some employers were demanding 40 percent to 50 percent reductions.
Dr. Christopher M. Foley, president-elect of the Minnesota Society of Internal Medicine, a professional group, said, "Primary-care physicians are grossly underpaid." He added that Twin Cities internists earn $90,000 to $100,000 a year, on average, after paying expenses, well under the national average of $146,500 in 1989, the latest year reported by the American Medical Association.
The doctors say they worry about attracting the best medical graduates to Minnesota. Dr. Hanson said that some doctors were leaving the state and that recruiting was becoming difficult.
 
Quality Concerns
Few Complaints In Minneapolis
 Physicians and spokesmen for Minneapolis employers said the quality of care was high. Indeed, Ms. Sundin, the teachers union president, said many families "grow up with and develop a relationship with the H.M.O." For their part, many members say that a major concern is being forced to change doctors when, as frequently happens, their employer selects a different H.M.O.
Asked to cite examples of improper behavior, a number of employers, unions and nonprofit agencies came up with only a handful of problems. "People think it's poor quality if they can't go to the doctor that they want to go to," said Sue Kvendru, health and issues director with the Minnesota Senior Federation, an advocacy group for the elderly. "They think they have to wait too long for an appointment, especially for preventive and routine care."
Rochelle Brandt, a psychologist with the Early Childhood Center at the Minnesota Children's Medical Center, said H.M.O.'s had raised objections to treatment recommended for "disturbed pre-schoolers."
 
Reviews Mainly Favorable
 Harry Hendrickson, a 66-year-old metals salesman, said his regular doctor at a clinic affiliated with Group Health did not visit him in the hospital when he had a stroke last year. He said other Group Health doctors came by, but "I got nothing explained to me." He added, "The doctor-patient relationship is gone."
He also said that the H.M.O. had been reluctant to approve physical therapy recommended by hospital therapists. Pamela G. Effertz, a Group Health spokeswoman, said Mr. Hendrickson's doctor had been on vacation.
But the reviews were overwhelmingly favorable when the Norwest Corporation, a bank holding company based in Minneapolis, recently asked 4,300 employees to evaluate two H.M.O.'s. In unsigned replies, majorities of 80 percent and 93 percent said they were "always" or "usually" satisfied.
And Mr. Hendrickson said his $20,000 medical bill had been paid promptly. "Thank God, I had Group Health," he said. "They did take care of everything. They were beautiful about that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Everybody I know is in an H.M.O. of one type or another," said Peggy Steif Abram, a lawyer in Minneapolis, who recently gave birth to a daughter, Ellen. H.M.O.'s, organizations whose members agree to accept limits on their medical choices in return for low-cost care that emphasizes preventive medicine, are popular with women of child-bearing age. At least nine million are members; "I got nothing explained to me," said Harry Hendrickson, a 66-year-old metals salesman near Minneapolis who had had a stroke. "The doctor-patient relationship is gone." He was pleased, however, that his H.M.O. had promptly paid his $20,000 medical bill. (Photographs by Steve Woit for The New York Times) (pg.28)

Graph: "A Lower Price," shows how in Minnesota medical costs are lower than the national average, both for costs for H.M.O. and traditional coverage (SWource: A. Foster Higgins & Company) (pg. 28)
 
Map of the U.S., by state, and indicating the estimated percentage of each state's population enrolled in a health maintenance organization at the end of 1990 (Source: Group Heath Association of America) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); MINNESOTA UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (95%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (97%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HOSPITALS (75%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



47 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
The Day's Highlights

 BODY:

Shaping the New Order
A WARNING ABOUT THE CONGRESS: Pro-reform politicians warned that an emergency national congress that is supposed to seek a new formula for reviving the exhausted Soviet political system could provide an opportunity for Communist reactionaries to seek a constitutional coup to depose President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Page 1. 
 NEW SCHOOL IN THE OLD STYLE: A Leningrad poet told a knot of grinning students that their schoolhouse would "forever be a monument to the new life, the new future that awaits your generation." The school is an experiment in restoring pre-revolutionary classical education. Page 4.
AN APPEAL FOR FOREIGN AID: President Gorbachev appealed to Prime Minister John Major of Britain, representing the Group of Seven leading industrial democracies, for economic help. Page 5.
 
Anxiety for Russians in the Republics
 DEMONSTRATION IN MOLDAVIA: Women from Moldavia's Russian and Ukrainian ethnic minorities demonstrated against the republic's proclamation of independence by blocking trains in the region they call the Dniester republic. Page 6.
RUSSIANS IN THE BALTICS WORRY: With Lithuania racing toward independence, many Russians fear that the good life they have enjoyed there for years may be threatened. Russians in Latvia and Estonia share their concern. Page 6.
 
The View From Overseas
 NO MORE SPY VS. SPY?: The imminent dissolution of the Soviet Union and the purge of the K.G.B. have injected new urgency into the debate over the role of the American intelligence services in a world where the Communist competition has left the playing field. Page 1.
U.S. AMBIVALENT ABOUT YELTSIN: Bush Administration officials have grown increasingly ambivalent about Boris N. Yeltsin in the two weeks since the failed Kremlin coup, questioning some of his actions and intentions and starting to criticize him in private as a "demagogue." Page 7.
VIEWING HOMELAND'S CHANGES FROM AFAR: Soviet students in the United States can only watch in suspense as their country transforms itself. Some say they may be in the right place at the right time. Page 10.
MEMORIES OF BALTIC EMIGRES: Baltic-Americans liken the standard of living in their native countries between the World Wars to that of Scandinavia. Page 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); ESTONIA (78%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: PVT AS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); ESTONIA (78%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICS (90%); COUPS (89%); ESPIONAGE (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CLASSICS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (53%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



48 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2608 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Gorbachev Interview: 'People Expect an Answer From Us About the Future'

BYLINE: By Reuters

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 1

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's interview today in St. George's Hall in the Kremlin with Steve Hurst, CNN's Moscow bureau chief, and Yegor Yakovlev, the director of Soviet television, as translated by CNN: 
 YAKOVLEV: Mikhail Sergeyevich, for two weeks the world has been in a state of tension watching the events in the Soviet Union, and so once you'd agreed to be interviewed by the Soviet television, I decided to invite our colleagues from CNN, first of all, because this American television company beams the interview to the entire world, and secondly, because my colleague Steve Hurst for three days was broadcasting from the White House -- from the Soviet White House -- to the world, and so the two of us will be interviewing you.
My first question, the putsch did not last even three days, but the syndrome in our society has been very substantial after this putsch. People are now asking who was where and who was doing what during those three days, and very soon we are going to have once again the lists of those who are reds and those who are whites, and so on. How can we cure ourselves from that syndrome?
GORBACHEV: First of all, I think that we should say the putsch was doomed from the very beginning, because our society is different: it does not accept this kind of thing, No. 1. No. 2, let me say that the punitive measures, the legal punitive measures, as a consequence of the putsch should apply to the organizers and to those who were directly involved, to the conspirators. And that does not apply to the people, to those in the army units who were in the streets, because generally the army was on the side of the people. This does not apply to certain organizations who received certain instructions, who were working in order for the country to continue working. This does not apply to the Communists and to members of the party who were not involved in any way -- millions of Communists rejected the coup from the very beginning.
So we should be very firm. And the democrats should do their best -- those who defeated the conspirators should do their best to make sure that there will be no attempt to ascribe guilt and to engage in a witch hunt, and to expand the group of those who are responsible.
Only those who are directly involved should be punished. And those are my instructions to the Attorney General and to all the others. And this should be known to all our people.
This is my view and the view of all the republics.
HURST: We spoke with Vitaly Ignatenko [the new director of Tass, the Government news agency, and a former spokesman for Mr. Gorbachev] not long ago about the Party Congress coming up, and he -- the Congress of People's Deputies. He said that you were going to make the speech of your political life. I would like to know what for you politically and personally is riding on this speech that you'll be giving to the Congress tomorrow?
GORBACHEV: Well, I think that the situation is of a kind which requires us to draw all the lessons from what has happened, the difficult lessons. We should be really very clear in our analysis. People expect not so much debate. The situation is clear, the causes of the coup are also clear. What the people want is the specifics, the specific steps to solve our problems. We have many problems and people expect us to find solutions to those problems.
I spent the first part of today working with the leaders of 11 republics, who gathered together with the President of the Soviet Union in order to develop a joint position, to develop our position. And I will continue talking to them a little later today. What the Congress will hear is not the report of the President, but the collective view of the republics about the measures which have to be taken. People expect an answer from us about the future of the Soviet Union and the position of those 11 republics about this.
We should maintain, we should preserve our union, but it should be based on the principles that will make it possible to implement the new points, to implement certain new points that have evolved over these days. But people expect the Congress to support this position for the union.
 
Seeking Economic Agreement

We also favor an immediate economic agreement between the 15 republics in order to create necessary conditions for economic growth and to remove all the obstacles in order to take advantage of this victory over the conspirators, over the putsch, in order to expand cooperation but in a common economic space, and also to develop cooperation with our Western partners in a more active way. This is a position, a clear position of all the republics who are ready to participate in such an economic agreement.
And finally, we should over this transitional interim period which we will have to go through as we are putting together a new union treaty and a new economic agreement, a new economic union, a new constitution, and a new election, we should have transitional Government bodies that should have credibility in the country. And that means that we should -- we must prepare certain proposals for the Congress. We are now preparing and formulating those proposals, and the Congress will hear those proposals tomorrow.
So on all questions, on the entire package of issues that our society is concerned about today, the Congress will have proposals in order to address those proposals, and we hope that the Congress will take a responsible and clear attitude and that within just a couple of days, two or three days, it will address and discuss those questions and give answers to the country.
YAKOVLEV: Mikhail Sergeyevich, the preservation of the Soviet Union is probably the most important thing today for you.
GORBACHEV: I think it's the most important thing for the whole society. I feel what is happening and that the people are concerned about this. I think you understand that, too. Steve, I have to say to you that we feel the concern also of the international community, of the people of the United States, and our people are aware of that.
So it is clear to us that we must have a new union, we must develop a formula of the union of sovereign states who are free in very important ways. At the same time, they will cooperate. All the subjects of the new union will cooperate for the benefit of the people, and of course, there will also be other kinds of associations, maybe confederate type associations, and in multiple ways.
So it depends on how the people and the republics will decide -- yes, yes, indeed, and that's a very important stage.
HURST: Well, you've said since the coup, you're a changed man and you're wanting to take decisions that before you put off. The Baltic republics: at the Congress, will you address that issue and will you say that the Baltic republics, if they wish to leave the Soviet Union, are free to do so without the cumbersome waiting period that you've spoken of before?
GORBACHEV: First of all, what I have already said opens up possibilities for every republic to take an independent attitude and to decide. Some will want to conclude the union treaty, others will want to have associate status and associate cooperation with the union, and other republics will want complete independence, although I see that as regards economic cooperation, here there is a substantial degree of agreement between all the 15 republics. So all of these possibilities, I think, open up the way to solve the problems that we have for every republic, for every nation.
And the problem of the Baltic republics, as a special problem, will be addressed by the Congress.
YAKOVLEV: Mikhail Sergeyevich, I will not be a prophet if I say that at the Congress the question of your possible resignation may turn up. What will be your response, what will be your reaction in this situation? I would like to emphasize that the Congress of People's Deputies can, of course, release the President, but the Congress of People's Deputies cannot elect a new President, so if you resign today it will mean that the country will be without its President, pending the nationwide election. So what will be your response?
GORBACHEV: I have said that I will not now resign. This would be an immoral act. Without mentioning some other aspects, I think that at this very difficult stage, when we are approaching very important decisions that will define the future of the country in the course that we began in '85, I will not permit myself -- as a citizen, I cannot permit myself to just leave. So I will not resign.
YAKOVLEV: Well, but you have said many times in the past that you may resign.
GORBACHEV: There is one condition -- the union; the union should be retained. But as for the Congress, the Congress may discuss -- I will be able to say a few things to the Congress. I have quite a lot to say to the Congress. I have mentioned my responsibility, that I am to blame to a certain extent. I have given my analysis of the reasons, of the causes of the coup, but at the same time the fact that the coup was defeated internally and internationally, that would not have happened without the profound changes and reforms that have already happened in the country and internationally. And I think that I have taken some part in that.
YAKOVLEV: Well, some people say that Gorbachev is to blame for the putsch, and he also was involved in defeating the putsch.
GORBACHEV: Without a democracy, Gorbachev's democracy, the putsch wouldn't have been defeated, people say. Well, I think that what happened deserves very serious analysis, but I would like certainly to reject any kind of speculation about the President's position during those days. My position was a position of principle, and that I think was one factor that defeated the coup, through our joint efforts.
HURST: One quick follow-up question, and then another, if I may, please. But am I understanding you correctly -- and I don't mean to press this issue, but I want to make sure that we're clear on the issue of the Baltics if they do continue on this path. Lithuania, for example, has declared that it is independent, has been recognized by a number of Western European governments, and probably will be on Monday by President Bush. Then that is a fait accompli, as far as you're concerned?
GORBACHEV: Well, my attitude is that this is consistent with my approach about the development of the situation as we are reforming the Soviet Union, because every nation, every republic can take advantage of its constitutional right to self-determination, and therefore, if this is the final will, definitive will and intention of the people of those republics, then I am sure we must take that into account and agree with that.
YAKOVLEV: Mikhail Sergeyevich, sometimes leaders of the country can speak with a somewhat different voice compared to the past. When you returned from your isolation, you have taken many decisive steps. And some of the people who acted very decisively during the putsch, like Yeltsin, Sobchak, Yakovlev, are now close to you. But I don't see a man close to you, a man who first warned us about that danger, who spoke loud and clear about that danger -- Eduard Shevardnadze. I'm very concerned about his future.
GORBACHEV: I think that Eduard Shevardnadze, both at that time and now, has been taking a very clear attitude, an attitude of principle for continuing the policy that we began in 1985, and from that standpoint what we have been able to do together with him is something that I value very highly. And I also value very highly the relationship that I have -- that I still have personally with him.
I think that as a result of a major regrouping of political forces and of personnel in our country, we should certainly take advantage of his ability and capability as a politician. He is a major factor, and I think we'll take advantage of that.
YAKOVLEV: How will you do it?
GORBACHEV: I think that his experience -- and he has enormous experience in foreign policy and in domestic policy -- makes it possible for him to act within the new structures to oversee. For example, foreign policy and foreign trade, too.
HURST: A quick question. We're all concerned about Mrs. Gorbachev's health, and we're wondering if you could tell us, is she recovering?
And secondly, Mr. Yeltsin -- your relationship with him has seemed an emotional relationship for several years now. You've come back from this failed coup, and you've been put in a position where it looks to the outside world and perhaps to some people in the Soviet Union as if you're somehow sharing power with him or sharing decision-making.
Can you explain to us, after we hear about Mrs. Gorbachev, what your position is now with Boris Nikolayevich?
GORBACHEV: Well, first of all, to respond to your question about Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, I would like to tell you and to others who have expressed sympathy and support, I would like to thank you. Of course, I and my family have had to go through a great deal. She was behaving very courageously in that situation, and our entire family gave me support in my decision and they said to me that they were ready to share my destiny, whatever might happen; and we understood what could have happened. And I am very proud of my family.
Secondly, when the BBC first communicated that the group of conspirators was on the way to the Crimea in order to perhaps show Gorbachev to the Soviet people and to the international public, we were worried about their intentions; maybe they had something very treacherous on their minds. And as a result, she had a very bad attack, she had a very bad heart attack and with some very bad consequences. We had a doctor who saved her. But now she is recuperating and it's O.K., but it will take some more time. She is already active. She is talking to people, and I think yesterday or today she was even interviewed over the telephone.
So, your second question. When I say that all of us have to reassess many things after what has happened, I am of course referring also to a reassessment, a necessary reassessment among the democrats. The democrats have, let us say, different shades and different trends. I think that one of the reasons why the conspirators undertook that putsch, undertook that risk, and one of the reasons that we had not been able to rule out such situations totally and completely is a lack of organization and certain infighting among the democratic forces. And that's an important lesson for me and I think also for Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin and for all the others.
But I have to say that in winter and in early spring, we already acted on that important lesson when we began that process of nine plus one. And that already was a reassessment, and that put us very close to the signing of the union treaty, and that scared the conspirators. And that's why they saw that their time was almost up.
I think that now if anyone expects that he will be able to drive a wedge between Gorbachev and Yeltsin, to provoke a confrontation between Gorbachev and Yeltsin, I think that we should know that we have learned our bitter lessons and we will not allow ourselves to be provoked. That is out of the question. We are cooperating. We are cooperating, aware of the enormous responsibility, of our enormous responsibility with the other presidents in the Soviet Union at this very crucial time.
YAKOVLEV: Mikhail Sergeyevich, let me and Steve thank you for finding time for us. And we wish you to have some rest before tomorrow.
GORBACHEV: Well, I will go on working with the republics today. Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev during his interview with CNN yesterday. (CNN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN) CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TRANSCRIPTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); POLITICS (73%); ARMIES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



49 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
The Baltics' Free Past: Lively Era, Brutal End

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
According to memories and memoirs, the three Baltic republics that emerged from the collapse of empires in World War I developed rather smoothly as small but cohesive economic and political entities during their brief life in independence.
Baltic-Americans who grew up in the region likened the standard of living to that of Scandinavia. Asked about the quality of life then, Hans Kobin of Hackensack, N.J., an Estonian from Tartu who is 69 years old, said, "It was comparable to life in Denmark." 
 "We had American films, a theater in every town, an opera, nightclubs," said Berta Roze, 88, a Latvian now living in suburban Washington who comes from Riga, the Latvian capital. "It was so very lively. The country was young. We think we were very tolerant."
Her recollection of the period before the Baltics lost their independence to Moscow in 1940, under a secret protocol between Hitler and Stalin, conforms with that of George F. Kennan, the American diplomat, who lived in Riga as a young Foreign Service officer. In his memoir, "From That Place and Time," he recalled "a variegated and highly cosmopolitan cultural life: newspapers and theaters in the Lettish, German, Russian and Yiddish tongues" and "vigorous" religious communities. The presence of minorities, which were allowed considerable autonomy, provided a cosmopolitan air, especially in Riga, known as "the Paris of the Baltic."
 
Farm and Timber Exports
 Because they are situated at the eastern end of the Baltic Sea and because of previous connections to Germany and Russia, all three republics maintained lively commerce with those countries as well as with Britain. They mainly exported agricultural products and timber.
Largely Lutheran Latvia and Estonia and largely Catholic Lithuania had authoritarian governments through most of the 1930's. Lithuania had a homegrown Fascist organization called Iron Wolf and Latvia had one called Thundercross. Both were suppressed.
In Lithuania, an army-backed coup installed Antanas Smetona, a nationalist, as leader in 1926. In 1934, Konstantin Patsa, a nationalist in Estonia, seized power there and banned political parties. A parallel dictatorship was created in Latvia that year under Karlis Ulmanis.
Survivors of the period regard the dictators as having been relatively benign, particularly when compared with the region's later successive experiences of totalitarian rule under Soviet Communists and German Nazis. "There was censorship, but the way of life was democratic," recalled Valdemars Kreicbergs, counselor of the Latvian legation here.
The Baltic-Americans, who were very young at the time, said that as they remembered the 20 years of independence between the world wars, there was little or no fear of fresh encroachment in the region by Russians or Germans until Hitler attacked Poland in 1939. Relations between the Baltic peoples and minorities, including Russians, Germans and Jews, were generally good, those who lived in the region during the interwar years said in interviews.
"We had a cow, chickens and freedom," said Elvyra Vodopalas of her grandmother's home near the Lithuanian town of Vilkaviskis.
There was an orchard, too, "with pears, apples, cherries and gooseberry bushes," she recalled. "When I went back in 1982, the orchard was gone and the house burned down."
Mrs. Vodopalas, a retired physical education teacher who lives in Fairfax Station, Va., also remembered the joy of Lithuanians when their country's basketball team won the European championship in 1937.
"I remember that, too," said Mr. Kreicbergs. "The Lithuanians imported several players from America that year. The score, I think, was 22 to 21." Latvia, he noted, had won the European championship in 1935.
 
Comfortable Neighbors
 The Baltic-Americans said that despite the fact that czarist Russia had dominated their lands for centuries and the Soviet Union first menaced and later extinguished the freedom of the Baltic republics, members of the Russian minority made comfortable neighbors in the independence period.
Indeed, the influence of Russian culture remained strong. Baltic people spoke of "zakuski" instead of hors d'oeuvres and they relished various kinds of homemade vodka, which the Latvians called "degvins."
Mr. Kreicbergs, 79, who studied law at Riga University, recalled that his professors included a Russian, a German and a Jew. "The Russian newspaper, Sevodnya, had European prestige," he said.
Peggie Benton, an Englishwoman who lived in Lithuania and Latvia during the late 1930's, said in a memoir entitled "Baltic Countdown" that one of her countrymen spoke of the region as "solid, stolid and squalid," and that she found Riga "was run with doll's house neatness."
She found Kaunas, the makeshift capital of Lithuania after the traditional capital of Vilnius was taken over by Poland, "patchily modernized."
 
'Greatest City in World'
 In contrast, Antanas Dundzila, who was born in Kaunas 59 years ago, remembers it as "the greatest city in the world as far as I am concerned," although he, like all Lithuanians of the time, missed Vilnius "very strongly." The Virginia computer scientist remarked that in his youth Kaunas was "a fairly blooming commercial center,"
Although the German minorities in all three countries organized clandestine Hitler Youth groups and other Nazi organizations, and although Communists were also active, the threat to independence that might have implied was not perceived at the time by those who were interviewed.
"My generation in general was not aware of the dangers," said Mr. Kreicbergs, the Latvian. "We assumed independence would continue forever."
"All of a sudden the ax fell," Mr. Dundzila said, referring to Oct. 10, 1939, when the first Soviet Army forces moved into Lithuania to establish garrisons and air bases.
 
Many Killed or Deported
 Between June 15 and June 17, 1940, the Soviet Army blanketed the three Baltic countries and installed Communist puppet governments. They were sent under Stalin's interpretation of his secret 1939 pact with Hitler. About 60,000 Estonians were killed or deported to Siberia, along with 45,000 Lithuanians and 35,000 Latvians.
A little over a year later, Hitler's Wehrmacht swept in, followed by SS units that rounded up some 221,000 Jews in the region. They were systematically killed, partly with the help of special Baltic units under the SS.
In September 1944, Soviet forces surged back toward the region and those who could fled westward by land and sea -- 63,000 Estonians, 80,000 Lithuanians and 65,000 Latvians. The newly installed Soviet authorities resumed deporting Baltic people to Siberia or the Russian interior -- a total of 400,000 from 1944 to 1949.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATVIA (96%); BALTIC STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ESTONIA (94%); LITHUANIA (94%); GERMANY (91%); DENMARK (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; LATVIA; LITHUANIA; ESTONIA UNITED STATES (97%); LATVIA (96%); BALTIC STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ESTONIA (94%); LITHUANIA (94%); GERMANY (91%); DENMARK (79%); POLAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

SUBJECT: BALTIC-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR I (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); CENSORSHIP (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); FILM (70%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (69%); COUPS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (64%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



50 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Fidelity Is Bullish on Weekly Papers

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
Fidelity Investments, the huge Boston-based financial conglomerate known for its mutual funds, has entered the unlikely field of weekly journalism in the Boston suburbs. In the last year, it has become the region's most aggressive buyer of weekly newspapers.
Fidelity Capital has been joined in its acquisitions by members of the Harte family, which has owned newspapers for three generations. They began acquiring weeklies in 1986, and together they control 34 weekly papers and free shoppers in the Boston area, with a combined distribution of nearly 400,000 homes. 
 Indeed, Fidelity is too aggressive for Neil P. Collins, the co-owner of a half-dozen weeklies north of Boston, who is trying -- so far unsuccessfully -- to embarrass what he considers to be the Fidelity juggernaut into leaving him alone.
Specifically, Mr. Collins wants Fidelity, which managed $119 billion in assets in 1990, to abandon its plans to start a newspaper in Medford, a community just north of Boston, where Mr. Collins and his partner started a weekly paper last year.
Mr. Collins has publicly accused Edward C. Johnson 3d, the chairman and principal owner of Fidelity of "bully-boy tactics." William R. Elfers, who oversees Fidelity's newspaper operation, counters that Mr. Collins "would like to have a license on a monopoly in Medford."
 
Commodity Worth a Battle
 As the looming fight for Medford illustrates, the small hometown weekly has become a commodity well worth a battle, especially if it is in an affluent community near a big city.
"The weekly business is going to be the fastest-growing segment on the print side of the advertising business, because of the ability to target readers and because there's a big market for small advertisers who can't afford to buy a big daily," said W. Dean Singleton, chief executive of Media News Group Inc., which owns a group of weeklies in northern New Jersey.
The Boston Globe, which dominates the region's daily press, has started five weekly sections in response to the threat from groups of weeklies.
And now that the fabled mom-and-pop stand-alone weekly is nearly extinct, small chains of weeklies are feeling pressure from larger and larger chains that acquire them or compete with them.
These ever-larger chains of weeklies can spread their overhead among many papers and offer advertisers multiple markets. Their profit potential is sufficient to attract a venture-capital company like Fidelity Capital.
In addition to Fidelity, Capital Cities/ABC, the Chronicle Publishing Company of San Francisco and Harte-Hanks Communications have large groups of weeklies, with each company's papers concentrated in a particular area.
And laced through these large groups are a smattering of smaller groups, like that of Mr. Collins.
At a time when an advertising drought and squeezed earnings have all but stopped acquisitions by large media companies, Fidelity has shown its bullishness on the weekly newspaper business by going on a spending spree in the Boston area.
Within the last year, Fidelity and its partners acquired three papers on Cape Cod and a handful of weeklies elsewhere in Massachusetts, as well as the Dole Publishing Company, which included papers in Cambridge and Somerville, which borders Medford. Fidelity, a privately held company, would not disclose how much it paid for its acquisitions.
"They are on a kind of feeding frenzy," said K. Prescott Low, the publisher and owner of The Patriot Ledger, a daily in Quincy, just south of Boston.
Mr. Low said that the Fidelity group's maneuvers were becoming something of an obsession with the region's publishers and that rumors abounded regarding what the next acquisition might be.
Mr. Elfers, who is one of five managing directors of Fidelity Capital, declined to comment on possible future acquisitions. But he said the partners were interested in considering any deal that accommodates what he termed the "two plus two equals five" criteria -- meaning that a large chain of weeklies in a specific geographic area was worth more than the sum of its parts.
 
Is Fidelity Looking to Sell?
 Mr. Collins and some other newspaper publishers say that they believe that Fidelity's interest is purely financial, not journalistic, and that the company wants to assemble a mega-chain that will sell for a premium price in a few years.
But Mr. Elfers, who is 42 years old, said Fidelity had no plans to sell the weeklies. Indeed, he said he had a personal affection for the newspaper business from his days at The Princetonian, his college paper, and hoped to indulge that affection for the next 20 years.
Christopher M. Harte, who is 43 years old and a partner in the venture along with his two sisters, said he hoped that his family would acquire Fidelity's interest if the company wanted to sell. Mr. Harte said he and his sisters had no equity in Harte-Hanks Communications, a company co-founded by his grandfather. His father, however, owns about 25 percent of Harte-Hanks.
 
Far Smaller Scale
 In a sense, Mr. Collins and his partner, Mary L. N. McGrew, are entrepreneurs similar to those at Fidelity, but on a far smaller scale.
Mr. Collins, who is 45 years old, worked at the Gannett Company for 13 years, where he was publisher of The Palladium-Item in Richmond, Ind., and then worked for Beacon Communications, which is Chronicle Publishing's group of weeklies outside of Boston.
In the mid-1980's, Mr. Collins decided to try to realize the dream of many journalists and buy his own weekly. He and Ms. McGrew, who also worked at Beacon, bought The Revere Journal, a weekly just north of Boston, in 1987. The next year they bought a small group that included a weekly in Saugus.
But in 1989, the New England economy went sour and the newspaper business became very tough. To raise money, Mr. Collins and Ms. McGrew sold The Saugus Advertiser, which was profitable, to North Shore Weeklies Inc., one of the units of the Fidelity group, which had a free paper in Saugus that was unprofitable.
Fidelity closed its free paper after the purchase.
 
A New Weekly in Medford
 In 1990, Mr. Collins and Ms. McGrew used part of the approximately $300,000 from the sale of The Advertiser to start a weekly, The Medford Transcript. But among the papers that circulate in Medford is a free shopper that Fidelity acquired in the Dole buyout in May.
In July, Charles F. Goodrich, publisher of North Shore Weeklies, said he told Ms. McGrew that the company planned to start a new paper in Medford. "I did mention that she and her partner should let me know if they were interested in doing in Medford as we had in Saugus," he said.
Mr. Collins interpreted the exchange as a threat to sell or else, and he wrote a blistering letter to Mr. Johnson, Fidelity's chairman, which he published in The Transcript and circulated widely in the Boston area.
 
Tactics Seen as 'Reprehensible'
 "When the aggressor is part of a multibillion-dollar company like yours, able to lose money while starving out the competition, and the prey is a small, independent local company, such tactics may not be illegal, but they are certainly reprehensible," Mr. Collins wrote.
A Fidelity spokesman said Mr. Johnson was not available for an interview. He has not responded to Mr. Collins's letter.
Mr. Elfers said it was only logical for Fidelity to start a paper in Medford, since it already had a presence there through its shopper. Its plans call for the new Fidelity weekly to begin publishing in the fall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neil P. Collins and Mary L. N. McGrew, owners of a half-dozen weeklies north of Boston, are trying to embarrass Fidelity Investments into abandoning its plans to start a competing paper in Medford, Mass. (Michael Quan for The New York Times) (pg. 25); Edward C. Johnson 3d, Fidelity's chairman, is being criticized for his newspaper acquisitions. (The New York Times) (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HHS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: FIDELITY INVESTMENTS FMR CORP (92%); HEARST CORP (84%); HARTE-HANKS INC (58%); ABC INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIDELITY INVESTMENTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ENGLAND STATES (US) UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S; COLLINS, NEIL P; MCGREW, MARY L N EDWARD C JOHNSON III (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



51 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: B.C.C.I. Forgave Consultant Loan

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 28

 BODY:
The Bank of Credit and Commerce International last year forgave a $150,000 loan to Andrew Young's dormant consulting firm, freeing him from a personal obligation to make $32,000 in annual payments on interest and principal, Mr. Young, the former Mayor of Atlanta, Congressman and United Nations Ambassador, said in an interview.
The gesture was typical of the style of the bank, which spent millions around the world in efforts to influence public officials. B.C.C.I. was seized last month by financial regulators in seven countries after the Bank of England uncovered evidence of widespread fraud, drug trafficking and money laundering.
Mr. Young said he regarded the debt forgiveness as belated payment of $50,000 in annual retainer fees that the bank had promised his consulting firm while he was Atlanta's Mayor. Mr. Young was Mayor from 1982 to 1990 and remains one of Georgia's most influential public figures. Currently, for example, he is head of the Olympic Organizing Committee for Atlanta, which will be the host city for the 1996 Summer Games. 
 Mr. Young said the oral agreement for the consulting fees was made by the founder of B.C.C.I., Aga Hassan Abedi, a Pakistani financier who is now gravely ill in Karachi. Generally, to be legally binding, such a promise must be made in writing.
 
U.S. Investigating
 Federal investigators confirmed that the circumstances of the debt-forgiveness agreement are under investigation as part of the Government inquiry into B.C.C.I.'s Georgia connections. The investigators say they have no evidence that Mr. Young did anything illegal, like using his position as Mayor to help the bank.
Joe Whitley, the United States Attorney in Atlanta, said that no law -- Federal, state or local -- bars public officials from conducting businesses or receiving gifts while in office.
Mr. Young said that neither he nor his firm, in fact, performed any services for the promised fees other than to be on call as a consultant. He said they were never called upon and had never received the retainer fees.
The forgiveness of the loan was compensation for B.C.C.I.'s having had "the right to call on us if they wanted to or needed to," Mr. Young said. "They didn't.
"When people retain a lawyer or a consultant," Mr. Young added, "they retain them whether or not they actually call on them."
 Mr. Young said Mr. Abedi suggested in 1986 that the firm receive a retainer.' "Then he had his heart attack, so we never got it," Mr. Young said.
Mr. Abedi remained in command of B.C.C.I. in 1987. It was not until early 1988 that he had the heart attack, followed by a heart transplant. He has been in poor health since and has not had an active role in B.C.C.I.
The loan to Andrew Young Associates initially came from a $175,000 line of credit obtained from the National Bank of Georgia in 1982, the year Mr. Young became Mayor. He said it was secured by liens on his house and the house of Stoney Cooks, his longtime business and political associate.
The Georgia bank was acquired in 1987 by First American Bankshares of Washington, which regulators contend was secretly owned by B.C.C.I.
The debt forgiveness took place after Mr. Young left the mayor's office in 1990, but while he was running for governor of Georgia.
Mr. Young said Mr. Cooks initiated the negotiations with B.C.C.I. that led to forgiving the debt, because Mr. Cooks wanted to refinance his house and needed to remove the lien that had secured the debt. Mr. Young also said that B.C.C.I. officials had suggested canceling the debt.
"It was their idea," Mr. Young said. "I signed off on it."
A Differing Recollection
 Mr. Cooks's recollection of the matter differs.
Mr. Cooks said in an interview that the amount of the debt was $165,000, not $150,000. He said that the negotiations were not prompted by a desire to refinance his house but by a wish to be compensated for services that he said were in fact performed by the firm. He went to B.C.C.I. in late 1989, he said, and dealt with a Mr. Jamil, whose first name he said he could not recall.
"There was a period of work with no compensation," Mr. Cooks said. "When I inquired, I was told that I should recapitulate all the hours and involvement and travel. I was asked whether or not it was O.K. for it to be applied to the outstanding debt.
"It certainly worked out well," he added."
 
Suspended Operations
 Mr. Young said the money from the loan had been used to help pay the rent of the consulting company, salaries and other costs incurred in 1986 or before. He suspended the firm's operations in 1986 because "we realized that we weren't making enough money to pay expenses."
He said he had personally paid about $32,000 annually on the interest and principal on the loan from 1984 to 1989. Mr. Cooks paid nothing.
Both men said they did not know how much had been paid on the principal. The figure of $150,000 cited by Mr. Young was the amount he thought was still owed in 1990 at the time the loan was forgiven. Mr. Young said the interest rate had been based on a typical formula: one percentage point above the prime rate.
 
'Vigorous' Inquiry in Georgia
 Mr. Whitley, the United States Attorney, said his office was conducting a "vigorous, aggressive" investigation of B.C.C.I.'s Georgia connections.
Although Mr. Whitley declined to be specific, the investigation is believed to include the bank's relationships with Mr. Young and with former President Jimmy Carter, who created charitable organizations that received $8.8 million in contributions from B.C.C.I.; with Bert Lance, Mr. Carter's former budget director who once owned the National Bank of Georgia, and with Ghaith Pharaon, a major B.C.C.I. stockholder who bought the Georgia bank from Mr. Lance.
Federal investigators say they do not believe there was anything unlawful about Mr. Carter's relationship with B.C.C.I., but they want to examine the circumstances of the bank's contributions to Mr. Carter's charities.
Similarly, there are no allegations of unlawful conduct on the part of Mr. Lance, who introduced Mr. Abedi to Mr. Carter and others, but Federal investigators say they want to investigate the full extent of B.C.C.I.'s relationship with Mr. Lance. They are also investigating allegations that Mr. Pharaon was a front for B.C.C.I.
Federal investigators, moreover, are looking into the lobbying effort that helped persuade the Georgia Legislature to change state law to allow First American to buy the National Bank of Georgia.
"We'll go wherever the facts take us," Mr. Whitley said.
 
Tampa Problems Seen as Isolated
 B.C.C.I. and several of its officials were indicted in 1988 in Tampa on charges of drug running and money laundering, and were convicted in 1990. Tax returns provided by the Carter Center show that Mr. Carter's charitable organizations received $5 million from B.C.C.I. after the Tampa indictments.
Carie Harmon, a spokeswoman for the Carter Center, said the money had been accepted because Justice Department officials said publicly that the Tampa indictment was no reflection on the overall character of B.C.C.I.
Did Mr. Young have any reservations about the propriety of accepting the B.C.C.I. debt forgiveness?
"We were told by the Justice Department that these were just a few bad apples in a basicaly good pie," Mr. Young said. "I saw this as a Florida scandal, not a B.C.C.I. scandal."
Mr. Young said that Mr. Carter had played no role in the debt forgiveness, and that Mr. Young had received no other money from B.C.C.I. Mr. Young also said his association with B.C.C.I. ended last year.
 
Forgiving Loans 'Highly Unusual'
 Banking industry executives say banks rarely forgive loans.
"It is highly unusual for a bank to do that," said Mark Burneko, a spokesman for the American Bankers Association, a trade group of the nation's biggest banks.
Mr. Young said that before Mr. Abedi's oral promise to pay a $50,000 retainer, Mr. Young in 1985 and 1986 had helped B.C.C.I. in its efforts to assist in the development of several African nations, including Angola, Mozambique and Namibia, that were "trying to get established in the world economy." He said he also helped set up a conference of 14 African nations that met in Tunisia. The transportation expenses of Mr. Young and other participants were paid by B.C.C.I.'s Third World Foundation.
Mr. Young said that in his view he was assisting those develping nations, and not B.C.C.I., and he had not charged for his services. "I thought I was working pro bono, for the African governments," Mr. Young said. "If B.C.C.I. said that 'it was helpful to us, and we'll cancel out the loan,' that was O.K. with me."
Last month, Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the House minority leader, asked the General Accounting Office to investigate "the relationship between B.C.C.I. officials or B.C.C.I.-controlled entities with any current or former U.S. public officials, including but not limited to, gifts, political contributions and personal loans."
Mr. Young said he had been upset by the B.C.C.I. scandal. "I have agonized over this," Mr. Young said. "I've been trying to understand Mr. Abedi." He said that Mr. Abedi demonstrated "a very strong desire to serve the less fortunate."
"That's what I was attracted to," Mr. Young said, "and I'm sure that's what Carter was attracted to."
Mr. Young said that Mr. Abedi, in discussing the $50,000 annual retainer in 1986, had asked for Mr. Young's assistance in establishing business relationships in Africa. "I went to Angola after that," Mr. Young said. "I maintained my connections with Angola, Mozambique and Namibia. Any time they were ready to move in, we could have helped," he said of B.C.C.I.
But the call never came, he said.
Mr. Young is now president of the Law International division of Law Companies International, an engineering and consulting organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (55%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL; ANDREW YOUNG ASSOCIATES BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL; ANDREW YOUNG ASSOCIATES UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (55%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (67%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); HEART DISEASE (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, ANDREW; TOLCHIN, MARTIN; COOKS, STONEY

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



52 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Soviet Upheaval Adds Urgency to the Debate Over U.S. Intelligence

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
The dissolution of the Soviet Union and the humiliating purge of the K.G.B. have injected new urgency into the painful debate over the role of the American intelligence services in a world where the Communist competition has left the playing field.
Even before the tumult that began in Moscow last month, Congress was forcing the Central Intelligence Agency and the military intelligence agencies to rethink some of their priorities -- and even their budgets -- to adjust to a declining Soviet military threat. 
 But at this crucial juncture in history, the world's only superpower is without a chief spymaster.
 
Gates Confirmation Uncertain
 William H. Webster ended his tenure as the Director of Central Intelligence today, and Robert M. Gates, the President's nominee to replace him, may not survive grueling Senate confirmation hearings later this month because of questions surrounding Mr. Gates's role in the Iran-contra affair.
Senior intelligence officials concede that they are merely trying to keep up with the flood of events rather than forge a new mission, now that they no longer have to worry about defeating Communism. But they also remain resistant to any reorganization of the American intelligence agencies that would curtail their responsibilities and bring deep budget cuts.
Richard Kerr, who becomes Acting Director of Central Intelligence on Monday, argues that the instability and uncertainty unleashed by the crisis in Moscow have created new challenges that increase the United States' demand for intelligence gathering and analysis.
"While we may have to live with less because of the reality of our own economic situation and drawdowns in the military, the kinds of problems we face require more information and more analysis, not less," Mr. Kerr said in an interview in his office at C.I.A. headquarters in McLean, Va. "Uncertainty about the Soviet Union and the republics is greater now than it was 15 years ago when you had a relatively stable, unchanging Soviet Union. From an intelligence point of view, that very instability demands a lot more work."
Mr. Kerr's comments appeared to be a pre-emptive move to counter proposals for reductions in the nation's $30 billion intelligence budget when Congress reconvenes next week. A career intelligence officer, who as Deputy Director for Intelligence served directly under Mr. Gates when he was the No. 2 C.I.A. official, Mr. Kerr may be taking the same stance that Mr. Gates will defend in his hearings. Senator David L. Boren, the Oklahoma Democrat who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee that will question Mr. Gates, has already stated that he expects the nominee to come up with a creative new approach to American intelligence in the next decade.
 
Adjusting to Soviet Changes
 Mr. Kerr insists that the agency has already adjusted resources and reassigned personnel to deal with the unfolding drama in what was once the Soviet Union, and he says the C.I.A. will continue to do so as needed. The agency has also created task forces to study such issues as the future of covert action and counterintelligence needs and to review the agency's training programs. Since the upheaval in Eastern Europe that began in 1989, more than one-third of the military analysts in the Soviet division have been moved to other areas of the agency.
Long before the crisis in Moscow there were calls by critics and the Congressional committees that oversee intelligence for more comprehensive reform of the intelligence services. The services include not only the C.I.A., which accounts for less than 15 percent of the total intelligence budget, but also an array of military intelligence agencies, among them the National Security Agency, which is responsible for signal interception; the Defense Intelligence Agency, the analytical arm of the Pentagon, and the National Reconnaissance Office, which collects data by satellite.
 
Proposals for Revamping C.I.A.
 The most radical proposal came early this year from Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, who offered a bill to disband the C.I.A. and put the Secretary of State in charge of the country's intelligence activities. He argued that with the collapse of the Warsaw Pact the C.I.A. "seems mostly concerned with finding new work." Although the bill received little attention when it was introduced, it will help set the terms of the debate.
Proposals under consideration in both the Senate and House committees that oversee intelligence would strip the C.I.A. director of responsiblity over the entire United States intelligence-gathering effort and turn that role over to an intelligence czar. Such proposals are likely to gain more support as perhaps the only way to shake bureaucratic resistance to dramatic reform.
Less sweeping is a bid by Senator Boren to eliminate duplication in the civilian and military intelligence agencies and to focus on new areas of concern like economic intelligence and regional conflicts.
 
Against Radical Change
 As part of the argument against making radical changes in the C.I.A., Mr. Kerr and other current and former officials contend that the full-scale reorganization of the K.G.B., the agency's principal cold-war foe, has not affected its first directorate, which handles foreign intelligence, or its second directorate, which deals with counter-intelligence. Those activities are the two main areas of responsibility for the C.I.A.
But Mr. Kerr says that the status of the K.G.B. has little to do with the future of the C.I.A.
"Our objectives and our concerns are not connected to the K.G.B.'s fate," he said. "Our concerns are the issues of the future course of the Soviet Union and their implications for the United States. The K.G.B. was just one minor element of that."
But the Soviet crisis seems to have deepened the C.I.A.'s need for both a mandate and a leader.
Mr. Webster earned a reputation as an able caretaker who helped restore public trust in American intelligence but who never defined a dynamic new vision for the agencies that he has headed since his predecessor, William J. Casey, died in 1987. A Senate rejection of the nomination of Mr. Gates would mean that the agency would be left rudderless for weeks, and more likely months, until another nominee could be confirmed.
The C.I.A.'s operations directorate, whose spies conduct covert activities around the world, is searching for a new mission as the explosion of public information about its one-time archenemy makes the collection of secrets less important.
"The fundamental problem of the C.I.A. is not flying planes and listening in," said Morton I. Abramowitz, the new president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and formerly the State Department's most senior intelligence officer.
"It's analytical," Mr. Abramowitz said. "There has to be a conscious effort to improve the quality of analysis and to maintain and nurture people who understand the countries and societies we are dealing with."
Complicating the C.I.A.'s problems is the specter of new indictments of current and former officials for their role in the Iran-contra affair, which has corroded morale in the agency.
"What has rather upset some people in the agency," said Richard M. Helms, a former C.I.A. director, "is the way the prosecution has found scapegoats for other people's decisions. You now have people in the agency who are not going to take any chances. They are going to have a lawyer in their hip pocket every place they go."
Supporters of Mr. Gates, an expert on the Soviet Union, say the Soviet breakup has enhanced his chances for confirmation. In the first two years of the Bush Administration, Mr. Gates was the member of the policy- making team who was most pessimistic about President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's chances of fundamentally remaking the Soviet Union, and Mr. Gates's supporters say that many of his predictions about Soviet affairs have been proved correct.
But Mr. Gates's opponents point out that in various statements he predicted that Mr. Gorbachev would probably fail and the Soviet Union would then become an even more dangerous threat to the United States. In a speech in October 1988, for example, Mr. Gates said, "Whether Gorbachev succeeds or fails or just survives, a still long competition and struggle with the Soviet Union lies before us."
If Mr. Gates still believes those words, his critics say, he would be the wrong person to chart the bold new course for America's intelligence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert M. Gates faces grueling Senate confirmation hearings. (Markowitz/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (96%); BUDGETS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; KERR, RICHARD ROBERT M GATES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



53 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
SOVIET INSURGENTS FEAR HARD-LINERS PLAN NEW MOVES

BYLINE: BY FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 1

 BODY:
Insurgent politicians warned today that an emergency national Congress that is to convene Monday to seek a new formula for reviving the exhausted Soviet political system could provide an opportunity for Communist reactionaries to seek a constitutional coup to depose President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Notably, such a warning was issued by Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, the Gorbachev adviser and party critic who predicted the coup by ranking Communist officials two weeks ago. 
 "The coming congress could itself come out putschist," Mr. Yakovlev said this evening in a television interview in which reformers noted the considerable powers of the Congress and called for it to act only on transitional needs and not on any substantive changes in Government.
 
Power to Remove President
 The Congress of People's Deputies, the nation's 2,250-member super-legislature, chose Mr. Gorbachev President in the first place and has the power -- theoretically, at least, in these highly uncertain times -- to vote him out.
This can only be done through an elaborate impeachment procedure, involving a two-thirds vote of the congress on findings that the president violated the Constitution.
But Boris N. Yeltsin, the president of the Russian republic, which holds over half the nation's population and economic power, promised to use his republic's votes to protect Mr. Gorbachev in the congress from any such challenge.
"We will defend him tomorrow," he declared after a meeting with the visiting British Prime Minister, John Major, at which the Russian leader said he stressed that Mr. Gorbachev clearly "is not the same man he was before the coup." [Page 5.]
 
Appeal for Western Help
 As the nation slid deeper into political and economic crisis, Mr. Gorbachev appealed to Prime Minister Major, representing the seven leading industrial democracies, for economic help for his crumbling Soviet superstate.
Facing the likelihood of American recognition of the Baltic republics on Monday, Mr. Gorbachev shifted to a more conciliatory tone on the issue himself.
In an interview with CNN, he was less insistent than in the past on elaborate procedures for settling various territorial and political problems, although he said this issue will be up to the Congress. If independence is "the definitive will and intention" of any republic, he added, "then I am sure we must take that into account and agree with that."
Apart from whatever fresh intrigues might be attempted against Mr. Gorbachev, the congress will be dealing with the larger issue of how to begin moving the nation toward political reconstruction, an issue bolstered by rising public pressure for fast action.
The search for some new national government formula continued during the day at the Kremlin, where Mr. Gorbachev met with 11 of the 15 republic leaders.
 
No Sign of Consensus
 There was no immediate report of a consensus approach among the republics, which have been busy lately with separate independence declarations to secure bargaining rights in the creation of whatever might emerge as a post-Communist political system.
"We now need measures, actions which return the whole of our society to its normal channel," Mr. Gorbachev said in the CNN interview. "We have enough problems to solve. The people expect solutions."
The special congress is itself shaping up as an unpredictable factor in the volatile political situation following the failed Kremlin coup and the collapse of Soviet Communism.
At the very least, the talk of a constitutional coup was a measure of the anxiety that grips the nation as the old Soviet system dissolves.
Insurgent critics of the party have been warning that the congress, elected two years ago in a semi-democratic fashion that left it heavy with Communist loyalists, might use the emergency to attempt a constitutional stand against the wave of anti-Communsit reform that is sweeping the nation.
Concern that hard-liners might try to rally the Congress to defend the party's old system of government patronage and privilege was expressed by Nikolai N. Vorontsov, the former environmental minister who was one of the few Gorbachev Cabinet members to immediately oppose the coup.
"The next attempt is going to take place at the Congress," Mr. Vorontsov predicted in a television interview. "It's going to be an attempt to carry out a constitutional coup, to express a vote of nonconfidence in the President and to oust him."
President Gorbachev, who in the past has made a strategic habit of threatening to quit his post, reiterated today in the CNN interview that he considers it his obligation to stay on unless the idea of union itself is totally abandoned.
President Yeltsin has been trying to tailor a new national formula rooted in the republics' economic interdependence, with a redesigned political union loosely flowing from that. Other republic leaders, speaking to home audiences in the first flush of their independence declarations, have talked of ending the union in favor a commonwealth or other loose federation.
President Gorbachev told CNN that economic alliance was a minimal requirement, but that he still preferred some form of political union, although one with far more sovereignty for the republics than might have been the case before the coup attempt.
"What the congress will hear is not the views of the President, but the collective views of the republics," Mr. Gorbachev said, suggesting that he would try to use his own speech Monday before the congress to serve as a kind of channel for consensus.
In particular he vowed not to let a "wedge" be driven between himself and Mr. Yeltsin in the attempt to seek a new national political forumla.
"We're both aware of our responsibilities at this very crucial time," Mr. Gorbachev said.
Insurgent politicians promised to organize picket lines outside the Kremlin on Monday to caution the congress against attempting any reactionary strategems in behalf of the now suspended Communist Party.
One important difference in the nation's politics in the wake of the failed coup was discernible this evening when the insurgent politicians, who rarely had an opportunity to be heard on the old Kremlin-controlled television news, received prominent news coverage of their warning.
The general anti-Communist political movement thus already has a larger weapon for bringing popular pressure to bear on the Congress. Most of the Congress's members -- 87.6 percent -- were Communists when the election was held two years ago. Now they must see to their own futures as some sort of non-Communists amid the shifting political landscape.
Whatever else it might attempt, the Congress, which could remain in session for weeks or even months, has several large items on its agenda. One is to choose a replacement for former Vice President Gennadi I. Yanayev, one of the principals in the failed coup who is now in jail.
Another is to take up the issue of the status of the Baltic republics, which were the first to begin insisting on flat-out independence two years ago and now are being recognized by various nations, with the United States expected to extend recognition Monday.
The Congress, following normal procedures, also is to select from its own membership a new 542-member Supreme Soviet, the smaller sitting parliament that enacts most of the nation's laws.
In addition, the Congress will consider a raft of other issues, including the writing of a new election law. This will be of particular interest since the Communists, suspended as a party across the nation, are likely to be stripped of their favored position in electoral regulations.
In his television interview, Mr. Gorbachev said that, above all, the Congress must respond in a matter of days to the public's demand for constructive action.
 
'Future of the Union'
 "People should expect to hear from us an answer to the question of what the future of the union will be, and all the republics which participated in this meeting with me, have a position on this," he said, referring to the talks among the republics, 10 of which have declared independence from the union.
"Our union must be preserved," Mr. Gorbachev said, "But it must take account, it must be based on foundations, on approaches, on principles which would make it possible to realize those new factors which have arisen in recent days," he said, referring to demands by the republics since the coup for something less formal than a federal union.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Ukranian child leading former anti-Soviet partisans of World War II who marched yesterday in Lvov, wearing their old uniforms. The march ended with a rally in which speakers demanded a speedy seccession from the Soviet Union and the withdrawal of Soviet troops. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "SOVIET GOVERNMENT: THE POWERS AT THE TOP"
 
CONGRESS OF PEOPLE'S DEPUTIES
The 2,250-member congress, elected in March 1989 for a five-year term, is the highest representative governing body in the land. It normally meets twice a year to rule on the country's most important issues, and its approval is required for changes in the Constitution. With a two-thirds vote, it can remove the President for violating the Constitution. About 80 percent of the members listed themselves as Communists during the last session in December, according to The Associated Press. Of the 2,250 members, 1,500 are directly elected by voters in territorial and national districts and 750 by official organizations like the Communist Party and union and youth groups.
 
PRESIDENT
Mikhail S. Gorbachev was elected by the deputies to this new post in March 1990. The President has broad powers in legislation and major programs, foreign policy, defense and other duties. Service is limited to two five-year terms.
 
SUPREME SOVIET
The Congress of People's Deputies in May 1989 elected from its ranks the 542-member Supreme Soviet. Membership of the Supreme Soviet rotates, with a fifth of its its members replaced by other congress deputies each year. The Supreme Soviet deals with legislative and administrative matters and other questions. It normally holds spring and autumn sessions, each running three or four months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS POLITICS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; YAKOVLEV, ALEKSANDR N; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



54 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Shift in Feelings on the Homeless: Empathy Turns Into Frustration

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON

 BODY:
Ten years after the wan face of homelessness first captured the nation's attention, empathy is turning to intolerance as cities impose harsher restrictions on homeless people to reduce their visibility or force them to go out on their own.
New York City, Santa Barbara, Calif., and a number of other cities are acting out of both frustration and desperation, pressed by hard times and by a public that has grown increasingly impatient with a problem that has worsened despite the programs aimed at relieving it and previous shows of good will. 
 "People want to help, but they don't want to feel that they're just being suckers," said Mayor Loni Hancock of Berkeley, Calif. "The cities that try to help get overrun and then comes the backlash. There comes a time when people want to step back and insulate themselves."
Atlanta, which is preparing for the 1996 Olympic Games, passed a law in July authorizing the arrest of anyone loitering in abandoned buildings or engaging in "aggressive panhandling."
New York's transit authority has banned panhandling in the subway system and a $50 fine can be imposed on anyone caught doing so.
In Miami, where officials briefly considered shuffling several hundred homeless people off to a city-owned baseball stadium, panhandlers who approach motorists at intersections to wash car windows face a fine of as much as $500 and a jail sentence of as many as 60 days.
 
Tough Stance in Capital
 In August, the District of Columbia closed two emergency shelters and announced plans to eliminate half the beds in its shelters. It also plans to severely restrict the number of nights that homeless people can stay in them. The city's tough new stance comes with strong public backing. A 1984 law required the city to shelter all in need; last fall the voters repealed it.
And last year Santa Barbara banned homeless people from sleeping on public streets, beaches or sidewalks and in parking lots; the measure leaves them to sleep on a public lot filled with eucalyptus trees where they are out of sight of downtown boutiques.
Advocates for the homeless and city officials alike see these as signs that attitudes are hardening toward what became a badge of social responsibility in the 1980's when people could better afford to be magnanimous.
"People are a bit weary," said Mary Brosnahan, executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless, a New York group. "They have heard all the solutions for the last 10 years, but it doesn't seem to make a dent in the problem."
The world is a very different place than it was just over a decade ago, when homeless people were swept from Madison Square Garden in New York on the eve of the Democratic National Convention in 1980 in an incident that gave birth to a nationwide advocacy movement. That was before crises like AIDS and crack that competed for the nation's compassion even had names and before two recessions made life tougher for everybody.
In the early, naive days of the homeless crisis, people pinned their hopes on the legions of soup kitchens and armories-turned-shelters to reduce the number of people sleeping in doorways and soliciting money on street corners. But the numbers only grew.
Now, in the second decade of widespread and obvious homelessness, people are experiencing a kind of compassion fatigue, as Mayor Hancock of Berkeley, calls it.
In that city, where tolerance is a religion, officials have taken steps to keep the homeless from abusing the public's generosity. In July, the city arranged for residents to buy vouchers from local merchants that they can give to homeless people instead of cash, which can all too easily be used for drugs or liquor. The vouchers can be redeemed in local establishments for things like food or laundry service.
No city officials contacted last week would say publicly that they were seeking to push the homeless aside. But all said they were feeling the public's impatience.
 
'The Fad is Over With'
 "In a sense, the fad is over with," said Paul Relman, acting president of Central Atlanta Progress, a business group that pushed the city to regulate the homeless. "I don't know if it's tolerance or it's, 'Let's just not see it anymore.' "
Statements like those especially disturb advocates. Such sentiments are taken as evidence that the public may be becoming inured to the sight of disheveled people pushing their life's possessions in a shopping cart or washing themselves on the sidewalk.
It is in this new and unforgiving climate that merchants and others are speaking out in ways that would have been considered blasphemous not long ago. At the urging of merchants in Santa Barbara, for example, one downtown plaza is being rebuilt to remove the seats, which they say invite the homeless.
"Our goal is to make things as uncomfortable for them as we can so they can move on," said Pete Gherini, president of the Santa Barbara Chamber of Commerce. "When you look at these characters sitting out in the middle of the day when everybody else is working just to survive, you don't get a lot of sympathy."
Part of the problem, advocates say, is that career panhandlers have capitalized on sympathy for the homeless, confusing the two issues, and the careerists are now hard to distinguish from the downtrodden.
Whether on hustlers or the homeless, the city of Atlanta is bearing down and has made it a crime to solicit money in a way that causes a "reasonable person to fear bodily harm" or to panhandle "in close proximity" to a person who has said no.
 
Rules on Begging
 "As long as you do it in a respectful way, where you're not threatening folk, it's O.K.," said Thomas Cuffie, an Atlanta City Council member who sponsored the measure.
"But once you go beyond that, badgering folk and making them feel you're going to do something to them if they do not give up some money to you, then that's when the person would have a right to bring a charge against you."
On the tiled sidewalks of downtown Santa Barbara, homeless people with shopping carts and backpacks walk briskly past the palms and bougainvillea, and they tend not to linger in front of the adobe-style storefronts. Many have been arrested for panhandling, public drinking or sleeping on public grounds. They move from one out-of-the-way lot to another at night fearing arrest and they say they feel the tide has turned against them.
"They're trying to run us out of here," said Paul Stellwag, one of the city's homeless. "It's getting worse and worse and worse. I can feel the animosity."
Mr. Stellwag says he believes that the hard time he and others are getting is because of the city's concern for tourism. And he resents it. "I don't give a flying hoot about the damn tourists," he said. "If they tried to help us, we wouldn't be here."
But there is widespread agreement that private generosity would not solve the problem. The main flaw in public policy, advocates say, is that emergency shelters and soup kitchens do nothing about the root causes of homelessness -- poverty, lack of affordable housing and a changing economy that has eliminated entire classes of well-paying, low-skilled jobs. While these larger problems have intensified the plight of the disadvantaged, cities have tried to keep the patient comfortable, to the dissatisfaction of merchants, residents and advocates.
"What you're seeing is a residual effect of programs often too little too late and often discredited," said Kim Hopper, president of the National Coalition for the Homeless, a Washington-based advocacy group, which is affiliated with several other such groups around the nation. Mr. Hopper was co-author in 1981 of "Private Lives/Public Spaces," considered a seminal study of homelessness. "As long as you see only the surface evidence of failure, you will see the calls for more repressive measures."
There has been perhaps no greater turnabout than in Washington, where Mitch Snyder, a radical advocate for the homeless, helped to give homelessness national prominence as an issue. But a year after his death, and under the pressure of city budget deficits and a public change of heart, there appears to be little room for sympathy.
Over the last few years, says Robert Moon, a Washington resident, his compassion has turned to bitterness over the homeless shelter in his northwest neighborhood.
"There's gotten to be just too many of them in one area," said Mr. Moon, a military officer. "And after awhile, it's hard to feel sorry for them. It's made our neighborhood unlivable."
He and others lobbied the city to shut down the shelter. It was one of the two that were closed in August.
As Ms. Brosnahan, of the New York advocacy group, said: "The problem is just enveloping us. How big a rug are you going to need to sweep them under?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a decade of widespread concern about the problem of homelessness, more cities are becoming less tolerant of the homeless. This man carted his belongings near downtown Atlanta (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. 1); The Pierce Shelter in Northeast Washington was housing up to 150 homeless men before it was shut down in August. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); A growing number of cities are imposing harsher restrictions on homeless people, making it difficult for them to remain where they are. Daniel Libby and Diane Carter of Santa Barbara, Calif., seek a helping hand. (Christopher Gardner for The New York Times) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; URBAN AREAS HOMELESSNESS (94%); PANHANDLING (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); BASEBALL (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (64%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); SENTENCING (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



55 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Life and Death of the Small Town

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

 BODY:

Far From Home
Life and Loss in Two American Towns
By Ron Powers
317 pages. Random House. $22. 
 This is a very interesting book about the hollowing out of America's towns, the social soul much revered in the nation's history and in the memory of people who no longer must try to earn a living in them. The social reality remains much the same as ever in these manageable communities, which named their streets for trees instead of numbers. Residents generally behave sanely and civilly in public, according to a detailed but unwritten code of conduct powerfully enforced by the simple fact that virtually everyone on the street knows everyone else.
Economically, however, the story on Main and Elm Streets these days is more often one of decay and despair. While the country's urban areas continue their social and criminal convulsions in the omnivorous glare of television cameras, the crumbling of the less-populated communities has continued, largely unnoticed by urban society.
This stems in large part from the United States' different settlement patterns. While feudal European societies developed urban areas where peasants lived while commuting to farmlands in the countryside, America's homesteading policies required a farmer's physical residency on the land to obtain eventual ownership. This fostered a dense scattering of tiny towns to serve immediately adjacent areas, disposable towns whose commercial lives are now drying up in the face of good roads, national chains and tastes and regional malls.
Historically, Jeffersonian small-town America has been an underground reservoir of values for the larger nation, sending out its foods, its ambitious youths, its family values and fad-free common sense attitudes to steady the larger nation. The underlying and ominous warning of Ron Powers, a Pulitzer Prize-winning television critic and television commentator, is that this invisible reservoir of values, like the aquifers beneath many cities, is being rapidly fouled and sucked dry by a larger society that may soon find, to its uncomprehending surprise and distaste, nothing of value coming up the straw.
Mr. Powers has chosen to focus on two communities -- Cairo at the bypass bottom of Illinois, and Kent, Conn., the unwitting victim of urban creep. One community is suffering the pains of development, the other is enduring the lack of it, thanks to a leadership clan perversely opposed to growth that might threaten its dominance.
Sitting so far from anything of modern economic import except the adjacent Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, Cairo (pronounced KAY-roe) is enduring a crisis of poverty, economically and spiritually. Kent, caught in the oily orb of New York's metropolitan mass, is enduring a crisis of affluence. Thousands of dual-income New York couples are fleeing urban chaos to seek weekend peace, investment profit and a relaxing tax-shelter in an idealized small town. Unfortunately, though not surprisingly, the sheer number of these domestic refugees, their affluence, their urban suspicions, tastes and priorities inadvertently start changing the town the very moment of their arrival.
While few people with any money are moving into Cairo, few old timers in Kent have enough dollars to sustain life and their property taxes in the upward spiral of a hot town's boom. And while most might understand, though bemoan, a dairy farmer's inability to resist a seven-figure sum for his well-fertilized ancestral lands, few foresee the economic and social impacts of scoured pastures sprouting scores of modern homes and convenient condos.
What sane real estate agent, newly arrived herself, is going to notice, let alone point out, the clash of cultures and priorities between her potential customers and their would-be retreat community? Urban immigrants care more about ersatz rural architecture than jobs for last June's high school seniors. These weekenders are more interested in a leisurely dinner with the correct wine at an inn than buying coffee at Maude's Cafe, large John Deere tractors and pickups full of two-by-fours and two-inch PVC pipe. A healthy small town cannot support a volunteer fire department based on urban newcomers who show up Friday evening, disappear Sunday afternoon, don't volunteer to work on these days off and think fire and ambulance protection is covered by taxes anyway. And what city couple with dual checking accounts is going to vote for higher small-town school taxes when they already pay a city income tax, a city sales tax and outrageous tuitions for a private school? Not to mention the new crush of traffic on old roads three days a week.
Mr. Powers is well qualified to examine these problems, having grown up in Hannibal, Mo., lived and worked in Chicago and New York and, as it happens, having himself been a weekend resident of Kent. "I am a town boy," he proudly admits. And then he notes, sadly, "a central condition of my adult life is that I can go anywhere I please, except back."
There are a couple of factual errors (Interstate 84, not 87, runs near Kent and Montana State University is not in Missoula). There are a tad too many dinners and cigarette-lightings and puffings used as devices to describe some characters, all of whom seem to have physical characteristics requiring obvious adjectives like broad mouths, bull shoulders, anvil-black hair and eyebrows that resemble violent slashes.
But Mr. Powers is a skilled, thought-provoking writer. His transitions between what might seem two too-disparate communities are inevitably smooth. And he has a professional's keen eye for relevant history, for the telling modern detail and for some lovely, pinpoint phrasing, even if you haven't spent a childhood in such towns. Sunday, he notes, congeals in these communities. Cairo "dreamed its memories." He contrasts "the profundity of country nights as opposed to the vaporlit menace of urban darkness." He notices that one character's television is ostentatiously placed, but unplugged.
And he notes a minor but telling irony of modern America's agricultural areas: there, where milk is produced by the billions of gallons, the cafes offer plastic nodules of nondairy creamers as artificial additives to the ubiquitous cups of coffee. Mr. Powers has obviously spent his share of morning coffee breaks at these homey counters, listening and asking question. Thank goodness for us.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Powers (Erik Borg/Random House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FAR FROM HOME (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); CAIRO, EGYPT (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CITIES (89%); ETHICS (77%); HISTORY (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); FAMILY (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H; POWERS, RON

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



56 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
Labor still marches, but as jobs and money move south, the drummer is ever more distant.
Labor Day was a New York invention. But, a decade ago, when the city's once-vaunted Central Labor Council decided to revive its annual Labor Day parade for the first time in 13 years, it took two months to get a permit from the Police Department. 
 The bureaucracy's languid response was a consequence of organized labor's lack of influence with the Koch administration. It also reflected concern by Harry Van Arsdale Jr., then the Council's venerable president, that the labor movement had become a complacent victim of its own success.
Since 1981, union members have marched in Manhattan every year except one, 1986, when Mr. Van Arsdale died and was succeeded by his son, Thomas. This year the Central Labor Council switched its annual forced show to Washington, joining the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Solidarity Day demonstration there Saturday.
The shift represented a recognition of where the money is. Also, the recognition that national issues may be less divisive than the City Council primaries 10 days from today, plus labor's perceived victimization at the hands of its last major political success, Mayor David N. Dinkins. The Mayor's misfortune in being elected during a recession left him offering labor leaders with an unenviable choice between raises and layoffs.
"In New York City, the labor movement is a vibrant one." says Brian McLaughlin, a Democratic district leader from Queens and Thomas Van Arsdale's assistant. "It is certainly under attack, but I think the leaders have demonstrated that they'll weather the storm."
If Thomas Van Arsdale lacks the gumption that transformed his father into a power broker, then, arguably, even Harry Van Arsdale would have had a harder time today because there is less power to broker.
"Labor is in deep crisis," said Dennis Rivera, leader of Local 1199 of the hospital workers' union. "Not to talk about the crisis is to do labor a disservice."
The city's reputation as a union town was burnished earlier this year by labor's resistance during a prolonged contract dispute at The Daily News. But that victory may have been Pyrrhic. Union membership, generally, has been declining.
"With the important exception of the public sector and the health industry, unions have tended to lose ground," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional Federal commissioner of labor statistics. "They haven't penetrated the growth industries, and the sectors in which they were strongest have all declined."
Instead of winning generous raises, municipal unions are negotiating to avoid givebacks in a painfully slow process that is again inviting prodding by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. The pace has provoked a warning from Victor Gotbaum, the former municipal union leader, that the longer labor waits the harder it will be to strike a deal for a gradual decline in the work force with few if any more layoffs.
"Our goal is to bring back the 3,000 who were laid off," said Stanley Hill, Mr. Gotbaum's successor at District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. Mr. Hill insists that saving jobs is a higher priority than winning raises -- in contrast with labor leaders who acknowledge privately that they would rather sacrifice some employees to spare survivors who still pay dues and vote.
Labor's ability to protect its members is often a consequence of its political influence. While Mr. Dinkins's victory may have improved the access of some union leaders to City Hall, they were invited in only to be told that the cupboard was bare. In this month's Council primaries, meanwhile, labor is marching in different directions.
"I think we won already," Mr. Rivera said of his Majority Coaltion for a New New York, although it remains to be seen whether the coalition wins the most attention or the most seats. (In Brooklyn, a longshoremen's union official, Louis Valentino, may win in a crowded field that includes a candidate endorsed by the Majority Coaliton. In another district, the coalition and the Central Labor Council have endorsed Adele H. Cohen, a lawyer for District Council 37).
Among the 32 incumbents seeking re-election, Mr. Rivera's coalition has endorsed four -- Sal Albanese, Ronnie Eldridge, Virginia Fields and Miriam Friedlander -- but not the two dozen others backed, along with those four, by the Central Labor Council and by Mr. Hill. Because he represents public employees, Mr. Hill is naturally more reluctant to offend incumbents.
Sandra Feldman's teachers' union has refused to endorse anybody, to protest what she describes as the Council's acquiescence in paring the education budget. That protest may backfire if candidates whom the teachers would ordinarily have supported win without the union's help.
Labor can still muster vital resources. Some of its power may be illusory, though, much like the impression it left on the city's official Voter Guide. The cover was printed in New York and carries a union label. But, to save money, the millions of inside pages, which list the Council candidates, were printed in Canada at a nonunion plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR DAY; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (91%); US LABOR DAY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM BRIAN D MCLAUGHLIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



57 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Between Heat and Hurricane, Summer Weather Is Weird

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Summertime has its own rhythms, so time-honored that you can plan your life by them. You buy your swimsuit in June, you take it easy in July, you eat peaches in August. Just before Labor Day you buy a fall outfit or take care of those back-to-school purchases. And September is for cool days and apples.
Not this year. Freakish weather, including the violent storms that accompanied Hurricane Bob -- has thrown everything off. Vegetables and fruit are appearing at all the wrong times, animals are doing strange things, and some people's livelihoods have been seriously disrupted. 
 The problem started in May with a series of hot, steamy days that were not supposed to arrive until August. But that was not the end of it. By Aug. 30th, the New York office of the National Weather Service had counted 37 days when the mercury topped 90 degrees, far more than the 14 days in a typical summer. Yesterday the temperature dropped to a low of 57 degrees from a high of 89 on Saturday.
Although diehard New Yorkers who pride themselves on not leaving the city in the summer probably think that that heat was mitigated by many days of rain, anyone who lives on Long Island or the counties to the north of the city will tell you that the area has suffered a terrible drought. A farmer in Highland, N.Y., saw no raindrops for seven weeks, while a grapegrower in eastern Long Island called it the worst year for rain in 40 or 50 years. On Friday, the state declared a drought alert for the southern part of the state, and New York City officials say they will be monitoring closely the reservoirs, which are now at 64 percent of capacity compared with the 82 percent they are normally at at this time of the year.
And that was after Hurricane Bob wreaked its own special havoc.
"It's kind of an abnormal year so far," said David Miskus, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service's climate analysis center.
Now, as we all know, New Yorkers are good at coping. They bought their summer clothes in May, giving retailers a brief boost but depriving them of the normal inventory for August clearance sales.
They headed to the beach in droves, especially in a year when many felt too strapped to travel further afield. Jones Beach reported a 20 percent increase in visitors, giving the local lifeguards and restaurant managers plenty of business. And hotels on the Jersey Shore, like the Bluff's Hotel and Restaurant in Bay Head, said they were having the best summer in years.
The owners of outdoor restaurants at the South Street Seaport have also been enjoying a banner season. While they normally do not seat customers outside until June, they started in May this year, their business that month was up 41 percent, and it has remained strong every month but July.
 
'We Pray for Sunny Days'
 "The Seaport is a very weather-driven place," said Glen Wielgus, director of sales and marketing at Seaport Marketplace Inc. "We pray for sunny days."
The owner of a Baskin-Robbins franchise in Brooklyn Heights, Charles Paull, is also fairly ecstatic. His sales this summer have been running 10 to 15 percent higher than last year, in part because so many people are going for an evening stroll along the promenade and can't think of anything better to accompany them than a cone piled high with mint chocolate chip, or some such flavor.
But if the hot, dry weather has spelled profits for some, it has meant trouble for others. This was not a very good year, for instance, to be a Long Island potato farmer. The oppressive heat put so much stress on the vegetable that many local farmers had already lost 25 to 30 percent of their crop by mid-August, said Joe Gergela, executive secretary of the Long Island Farm Bureau.
And then Hurricane Bob dumped seven inches of rain on their fields in less than 48 hours. That washed away so much soil that many potatoes were exposed to sunlight, turning them green and making them unsellable.
 
Bad for Apples, Good for Peaches
 Farmers north of the city also suffered from the early summer drought. Frank Wilklow, of Wilklow Orchards in Highland, N.Y., who brings his crops into Manhattan twice a week as part of the city's "greenmarket" program, said that it had been so dry his winesap apples were splitting in half. To preserve his crops, Mr. Wilklow has had to irrigate, but that comes at great expense and time since it is a round-the-clock effort. The only good news is his peaches: though several weeks early, they were the sweetest he has ever tasted because they absorbed less water than usual.
But that is hardly compensation. "I couldn't call it a good year," said Mr. Wilklow.
This summer was also hard on shell fishermen. The early summer heat seems to have contributed to a brown algae that bloomed in the Peconic Bay. With so much of it floating on the surface, the eelgrass below could not get enough sunlight to grow, and those grasses are where baby scallops try to find a home to cling to. While scallop season normally starts in September, Arnold Leo of the East Hampton Town Baymen's Association predicts that scallop-lovers will have to wait until October. Even then, he says, the crop is not likely to be great.
Fishermen on Long Island got another jolt with the hurricane. The storm sped up the coast so quickly that it was not until it was too late to do anything that they realized it was going to bear down on them. Many still had their huge traps offshore, as well as long fishing nets that extended as much as 500 feet under water. The huge waves and churning undercurrents tore many of the nets to shreds, said Mr. Leo. Replacing them at a cost of $3,000 to $4,000 will be tough for many fisherman, he said.
 
Whale-Watching Suffers
 While the local fishermen are confident that the hurricane did not cause any significant damage to their fishing stock, the convulsing seas did bring summer whale-watching almost to a halt. The immediate effect of the hurricane was to close down the whale-watching operation in Montauk, L.I., for four days, costing the Okeanos Ocean Research Foundation about $25,000, said Samuel Sadove, the research director.
But there have been much more serious lingering effects. Because of the turbulent seas caused by the hurricane, the whales, which are normally about 15 miles offshore, have regrouped about 30 to 40 miles from Montauk. A pleasant four-and-a-half-hour boat trip -- tolerable for families with young children -- has suddenly become an ordeal that could last 7 hours or more.
"That's it for the season, as far as I am concerned," said Mr. Sadove, whose foundation rescues trapped whales and cares for sick mammals. With revenues from whale-watching responsible for almost half of the foundation's budget, Mr. Sadove said he was not sure how they would make up the difference.
The economic fallout on Long Island agriculture from the hurricane, estimated at $20 million, was parceled out unevenly. In addition to the damage done to potatoes, the 80 mile-an-hour winds shredded lettuce heads, young cucumbers and pumpkins. It also knocked about half of the island's relatively small apple crop to the ground, and since most of those were still green they cannot even be used for cider. The hurricane also heavily hit local nurseries, which cover about 6,000 acres, and flattened cornfields. In what sounds almost supernatural, some corn is now growing sideways, but the stalks have resumed their skyward climb.
"It looks weird, but you ought to try to pick it!" said William Sanok, an agent at the Long Island Cooperative Extension, which is affiliated with the United States Department of Agriculture.
Although a hurricane in late August could have caused serious damage to the island's important tourism industry, New Yorkers are proving to be very resilient. Some hotels such as the Ram's Head Inn on Shelter Island actually had full rooms during the hurricane, partly because of boat owners and local residents who had lost their electricity. Others have seen their business return with the sunshine.
Surprisingly, one industry that was largely spared by the hurricane was Long Island's winery business. The vast preponderance of grapes grow in rows that run on a north-south axis, to maximize sunlight.
"The winds ran right down the rows," said Eric Fry, winemaker at Lenz Vineyards. "Rather than putting up resistance, the grapes were rather passive."
 
Grape Growers Were Lucky
 The pattern of rainfall associated with the hurricane also allowed for some small miracles. The day of the hurricane the winds were blowing so hard that there was sea spray mixed with the rain, which can burn the tissues of the grapes. However, a blessed one-inch rain the next day hosed the grapes down, reducing the potential for salt damage.
Grape growers are also amazed that the 7-inch downpour did not cause more lasting damage. Getting so much rain after such a long, dry spell could have caused many of the grapes to split open as they struggled to absorb such a large dose of water. But it was still early enough in the season for the skins to be relatively thick, making it easier for them to withstand the sudden pressure. Also, the ground was so dry that the rainwater simply disappeared into the cracks in the soil, leaving less for the roots to soak up.
"If the vines would have absorbed all that water, the berries would have bloated, split and rotted," said Stephen Mudd, manager of Mudd Vineyard Ltd. Evidently, New Yorkers are not the only species to be resilient.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A season of unseasonable weather has thrown off rhythms and seriously disrupted some people's livelihoods. Charlie Cichanowicz, a farmer in Riverhead, L.I., examined crops damaged by Hurricane Bob. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SEAPORT MARKETPLACE INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; HEAT; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE BOB HURRICANES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DROUGHT (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); CITIES (71%); METEOROLOGY (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (71%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); HARBORS & PORTS (63%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (63%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



58 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: A Defining Holiday

 BODY:
Labor Day celebrates working men and women by giving them the day off. Well, most of them. While America goofs off for one last day of summer, millions -- yes, millions -- work. This day defines the essential employee, the nonessential workaholic and the eager beaver.
Sam Ehrenhalt, the statistical wizard who heads the New York office of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, estimates that today will not be a holiday for something like 10 million or 20 million jobholders. 
 For police, firefighters and other emergency personnel it's just another workday. The same goes for workers in hotels, restaurants, amusement parks, movie theaters, department stores, mom-and-pop delis, bakeries and highway toll booths. Still others toil on newspapers, radio and TV, used-car lots, airlines, buses and baseball diamonds.
Street vendors will be out in force. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York will have guards on duty, and one man in to monitor the foreign-exchange markets.
Those on the cutting edge or unnerved by a day of leisure will do office work at home, on their computers. Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist who is taking the holiday off, speculates that the current wave of business layoffs is inspiring survivors to hustle harder, lest they be next.
For Presidential aspirants it is a day to work crowds. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, eyeing the Democratic nomination next year, speaks at a labor picnic in Pleasanton, Calif. Paul Tsongas, the only announced candidate, is going to attend the Milford, N.H., town parade.
Not so awfully long ago, holidays like Labor Day were unpaid days off; those who had to work got everyday wages. Then organized labor spearheaded the movement for paid holidays, and cemented the custom of premium pay for holiday help during World War II.
Indeed, it was organized labor that organized Labor Day as a holiday in the late 1800's. But for those who work while others play, it's a labor day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR DAY; EDITORIALS US LABOR DAY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); SEASONAL WORKERS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); RETAILERS (69%); BASEBALL (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); LAYOFFS (59%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



59 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Out of The Chaos

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
It is Moscow, 1991. But at times it could almost be Philadelphia, 1787.
In the anxious voices of those trying to reshape what was the Soviet Union one hears some of the same conflicting concerns that preoccupied the Framers of the American Constitution: fear of authority and fear of chaos, the demand for local political independence and the recognition of economic interdependence. 
 We forget, we ahistorical Americans, how divided the 13 original states were, how jealous of their individual sovereignty. After winning independence from Britain they joined together in only a weak, utterly ineffectual confederation.
What drove them toward "a more perfect Union," as the Constitution put it -- what overcame localism -- was economic trouble. The states put tariffs on each other's goods, and trade was dying. Even then, James Madison and Alexander Hamilton had to struggle against odds to persuade the states to send delegates to the Philadelphia Convention.
The Soviet people have lived for more than 70 years with a tyranny more complete -- totalitarianism -- than the 18th century knew. It is no wonder that members of the Supreme Soviet want restraints on official power -- a law, as Deputy Vladimir Zolotukhin put it, to make sure the President and "everybody complies with the law."
But 18th-century Americans had had their experience with George III, and fear of centralized power was a dominant factor in the drafting of the Constitution. That is why the Framers divided power between the states and the center, and among the branches of the Federal Government.
The intricate constitutional structure of divided powers was still not enough to reassure Americans. In 1791, just four years after the convention, 10 amendments were added -- the Bill of Rights -- to protect individuals from abuse of official power. And here again we can find similar concerns in the Soviet Union today.
Aleksandr Bessmertnykh, the former Foreign Minister, complained bitterly the other day that he was being wrongly accused of passivity toward the coup. "It's not my duty to prove what I say is true," he said. "Let them prove my guilt." In short, the burden of proof should be on the state -- as in our system.
Valentin Falin, reformist chief of the Communist Party's international department, expressed outrage at the fact that prosecutors had ordered a search of his home without proper authority. Our Fourth Amendment protects against illegal searches and seizures.
Another member of the Supreme Soviet, Nadezhda Popova, denounced officials for closing down a war veterans' organization on suspicion of pro-coup activity without any proof. She asked the delegates to support the veterans' right to "freedom of thought." That was Justice Holmes's phrase for a right protected by the First Amendment.
It is moving to hear such concerns expressed in the Soviet Union today. For decades not only were homes searched without warrants, but people were arrested and killed -- without a hope of redress. Yet the sense of what was right and just survived, in a form not so different from ours.
Of course the fact of parallel concerns cannot be taken too far. The delegates at Philadelphia were insulated, literally. They worked in secret, over months; the paving stones around Independence Hall were covered with earth so the sound of horses and carriages would not disturb their deliberations.
The men and women trying to cope with the Soviet crisis face a very different world: populous, instant, tumultuous. If a James Madison or Benjamin Franklin appeared, it is not clear that he could function in an atmosphere rigged against reflection. But then the Americans felt they were embarked on the most dangerous of adventures, too.
The hope for the Soviet Union must lie not in instant solutions but in time and experiment. Perhaps its republics, like the American states, will have to try separate existence before finding a lasting formula for cooperation.
If American experience shows anything, it is that a diverse people in a vast country must rely in the end on law. And the need for law -- law independent of the state -- is a powerful theme in the Soviet drama today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HISTORY; CONSTITUTIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); BRITISH MONARCHS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); BURDENS OF PROOF (64%); VETERANS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



60 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Unions at a Loss to Reverse Falling Fortunes of Workers

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
For all their exuberance, participants in Monday's Labor Day parades have rarely had so little to celebrate.
No problem illustrates labor's waning influence better than its failure to join with its historic ally, the Democratic Party, to exploit an issue that both acknowledge could be a runaway vote getter: a declining standard of living for most workers. 
 Throughout the Reagan-Bush years, most of the nation's families have been losing ground economically, finding it harder to make ends meet, while a minority of families, those with higher incomes who are primarily Republican, have gained ground.
This coincides with the continuing erosion of labor's membership. Only one worker in six belongs to a union today.
The House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, calls falling living standards the "overarching issue" of the times. Yet unions see Mr. Gephardt and other Democrats as part of the problem. In their frustration, some have decided to withhold campaign contributions to Democrats who vote against their interests. They also ponder running their own candidates in primaries, and on the fringe, some talk of forming a third political party. In several big unions, rank and file members have turned against their own leaders and voted them out of office.
 
'The Valid Issue'
 Victor Gotbaum, once head of New York City's big municipal workers union and now a professor of labor-management relations at the City University of New York, said, "The standard of living is the valid issue. The question is, is there a Democratic Party? Labor looks for a mechanism. Where is that mechanism?"
For much of organized labor, a better standard of living depends on protecting American products and jobs from foreign competition by restricting imports and on raising wages to regain the losses from inflation and from concessions made to management in the 1980's. Unions also argue that tax breaks for workers would unleash consumer spending and regenerate the overall economy.
For many Democrats in Congress, if not a majority, a better standard of living depends on developing more high-paid, high-skill jobs and training people better to do them. They find trade policies that thwart development of low-skill jobs in poorer countries morally problematic. And they maintain that tax breaks, whether for workers or for the rich, would only worsen a budget deficit that contributes to the economy's sluggishness.
 
Living on One Paycheck
 From the end of World War II until the start of the 1970's, when spending on the Vietnam War and inflation pushed the country into the recession of 1974-75, labor unions and Democrats collaborated to build the world's richest working class, one in which a blue collar factory hand could own a home, and support a family on one paycheck. Since then, more inflation, changes in the tax system, the growth of the budget deficit and the rise of foreign competition, have combined to depress most people's incomes.
Lawrence Mishel, an economist at the pro-labor Economic Policy Institute here, calculates that the typical production or nonsupervisory worker's average wage in July of $10.30 an hour is 6.8 percent less than 10 years ago in terms of what it will buy. He said young males with high school diplomas but no college, the backbone of the organized work force, have lost even more during the decade -- 20 percent of their wages.
In contrast, Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive recruiting firm in New York, reports that the average salary of chief executives of the nation's 200 biggest companies doubled over the last decade to $800,000.
The erosion in incomes shows up in delayed marriages, the growth of two-paycheck families, more young adults living with parents, and the difficulty young people have buying homes.
Victor Fingerhut, a poll taker and adviser to six unions, said the issue is ripe for labor and Democrats to pluck. "People have a sense of being hurt," he said. "If the Democrats had any sense, they would hammer on that stuff."
The decline of the standard of living coincides with organized labor's waning influence and the demise of the old manufacturing industries where wages were highest and labor strongest. Leading Democrats in Congress are partly responsible, trade unionists say.
Mr. Gephardt, of Missouri, and other Democratic leaders like Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, and Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, stunned labor in May by voting to grant President Bush authority to negotiate a trade agreement with Mexico. Labor loudly opposed the proposal because it contended that the pact would spell the loss of jobs.
 
Betrayed and Ignored
 Now unions feel betrayed and ignored. "When Democrats are running and looking for people to put up the yard signs and seal envelopes and collect voluntary contributions, the labor movement is able to deliver," said Gerald W. McEntee, president of the big American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees. "Once the Democrats get in Congress, the amount of influence we have comes up short."
With their fortunes still in descent, unions for the first time are thrashing about for new ways to recapture their old influence, including turning against Democrats. The United Mine Workers has started running its own members in primaries against incumbent Democrats who vote against its agenda. The Communications Workers of America has decided to deny campaign contributions to Democrats who oppose a ban against employers' hiring of new workers to replace permanently those who go out on strike.
As an expression of its fury over his vote on Mexican trade, the Machinists union canceled an invitation to Mr. Gephardt to appear at its convention in June. And the secretary-treasurer of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union, Tony Mazzochi, has formed a group, Labor Party Advocates, that could become the nucleus of a third party.
The president of the United Mine Workers, Richard L. Trumka, whose union's membership has plunged with the automation of coal mining, said the idea of a third party could have "a tremendous amount of merit."
"But first," he said, "we have to demonstrate to the worker that the Democratic Party won't be a voice for him."
Greg Tarpinian, senior economist at the Labor Research Association, a labor advocacy group in New York, made a similar point. "There's a much higher level of debate within the labor movement over the kinds of demands that labor should make on the Democratic Party," he said. "We've had a decade of openly reactionary anti-labor rule by Republicans, and the Democratic Party has yet to come up with an alternative."
 
Reliable Supporters
 Labor leaders still find Democrats reliable supporters of initiatives that help all workers, like expanding benefits to the long-term unemployed, expanding civil rights protections in the workplace and granting unpaid leave for workers who have children or care for elderly parents, all measures which the President has vetoed or stalled.
And people blame union leaders for labor's waning clout as much as they blame Democrats, who to win elections have to be sensitive to the concerns of more voters than just the 16 percent who belong to unions, a figure less than half the level following World War II.
These critics say that 35 members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council, made up largely of white males in their 50's and 60's, are mired in the battles of the past, and far more secure in their jobs than the popularly elected Democrats they berate.
More and more, rank-and-file members are challenging their leaders. For example, they voted out the presidents of two transportation unions for their role in settling last April's railroad strike.
"When you're losing members and influence, people start wondering why," said Susan Jennik, executive director of the Association for Union Democracy, a group in New York that supports rank-and-file efforts to open unions to more democratic practices.
Salvation for the unions and the Democrats lies in seizing the initiative to rebuild the standard of living, some Democrats say. "Trade protection strategy is not going to make us prosper," said Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council, an association of moderate Democrats.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, called the decline of the standard of living "the Achilles' heel of the Republican Party.
"The situation is ripe for someone to come forth and say the whole world is changing for the better, and America is changing for the worse, and we can do better," he said. "But lacking an overall vision, we Democrats get lost in the details."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 1991, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, an article on Monday about the declining influence of labor unions included scrambled paragraphs in some copies that truncated the identification of a labor expert and rendered a quotation from him incompletely. The expert, Greg Tarpinian, senior economist at the Labor Research Association, a labor advocacy group in New York, said: "There's a much higher level of debate within the labor movement over the kinds of demands that labor should make on the Democratic Party. We've had a decade of openly reactionary anti-labor rule by Republicans, and the Democratic Party has yet to come up with an alternative."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Thinning Wallets," tracks real wages, the average weekly earnings of production or nonsupervisory employees on private nonfarm payrolls after adjustments for inflation, 1950-1991* (*1991, 7-month average) (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; ELECTION ISSUES; STANDARD OF LIVING; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991



61 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: In Feast of Louisiana Governor's Race, Revenge Is Main Course

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The stage was set for hoopla. Edwin W. Edwards, who once let the good times roll as a matter of policy, was campaigning for the job he lost in 1987, asking a friendly crowd to make him Governor of Louisiana again.
 A dozen shrimp and crab dishes filled the buffet tables. The rum drinks flowed in several bright colors, and a trio of blond girls in little sequined outfits sang a medley of patriotic hymns to a rock beat. 
But, when Mr. Edwards took the microphone Wednesday night, there was none of the Cajun zest or folksy humor that had made him Louisiana's most popular political performer for 20 years.
 "Unlike anyone else running in this race, I have a mission," he said with a steely, almost solemn voice as he stared off into the distance.
 A Southern gentleman who feels his honor has been offended, Mr. Edwards, a Democrat, readily admits that his sole purpose in this campaign is to avenge his loss four years ago by unseating the incumbent, Buddy Roemer, who was elected as a Democrat but became a Republican last March.
 At times, it seems that Mr. Edwards would be just as happy settling matters with a duel rather than an election. In any event, he is demonstrating surprising strength in the public opinion polls. Several surveys taken this summer showed him virtually even with Mr. Roemer, and a few indicate that he may have a tiny lead.
 For example, monthly surveys conducted since May by the Marketing Research Institute have shown Mr. Roemer and Mr. Edwards running so close that the differences are well within the 3.5 percent margin of error for the surveys. In August, Mr. Edwards was the choice of 27 percent of those polled, and Mr. Roemer was picked by 25 percent.
 
Duke Has a Following
 The third significant candidate in the race, State Representative David Duke, a Republican, was chosen by 12 percent of the 800 registered voters questioned for this survey, about the same as in several other polls. Four other candidates routinely register in the single digits.
 Under Louisiana's open primary system all candidates, regardless of party affiliation, will appear on a single ballot on Oct. 19. If no one wins a majority, as seems virtually certain, the top two candidates will be in a runoff on Nov. 5.
 Some analysts, like Edward Renwick, a political scientist at Loyola University of New Orleans, say there is a chance that Mr. Duke, a former leader of the Ku Klux Klan, will make it into the runoff. In a state still suffering considerable economic malaise, he appeals to white working-class voters by promising to end welfare abuses and what he calls unfair affirmative action programs.
 Given that Mr. Duke's true popularity has often been underestimated in previous polls, Mr. Renwick argued that undecided voters who may be leaning toward Mr. Duke should be counted, bringing his total strength to about 20 percent of the electorate.
 "If Duke's true strength is higher than it looks," Mr. Renwick said, "then it will take only a small shift of voters to put him in the runoff, but otherwise it's Edwards and Roemer fighting it out all the way."
 
Back From Humiliation
 With the primary 50 days off, Mr. Edwards's showing constitutes a remarkable comeback.
 He last held office when Louisiana was in the depths of the oil price bust of the mid-1980's, and he spent much of his last term defending himself against Federal corruption charges. Even though one trial ended with a hung jury and a second produced an acquittal, he was vulnerable to a vigorous anti-corruption campaign waged by Mr. Roemer, then a little-known Congressman from Shreveport.
 When Mr. Edwards came in second behind Mr. Roemer in the 1987 open primary, he simply conceded the general election rather than risking further humiliation.
 "I have a mission," Mr. Edwards, who is 64 years old, said in an interview this week. "It is to prove that I was right four years ago, that he was lying about me, and that he could not do what he said he was going to do."
 
A Televised Mea Culpa
 Mr. Edwards tried to deal with his past difficulties through a half-hour television show he paid to have broadcast 18 times around the state earlier this month.
 Sitting in a big wing chair as if he were delivering a fireside chat, he said, "I'm sorry I did not do more to retain your confidence." He blamed his problems on inattention and "underestimating entrenched interests."
 It was an extraordinary admission from a man who retired his 1983 campaign debt with what is still widely considered the most extravagant and successful fund-raising event in American political history: he flew 618 supporters to Paris for a weekend at $10,000 a person and netted more than $4 million.
 There is virtually no hint of that Edwin Edwards in the current campaign, and he readily acknowledges that he is now trying to project a serious, statesmanlike image.
 "I have profited from my mistakes and profited from experience and gained some degree of wisdom from living this long," he said in the interview. "I have an abiding love for Louisiana. I have not lost my sense of humor nor my Cajun love of life, but I recognize we have serious problems that require serious approaches."
 Mr. Roemer, however, is not about to let his adversary, or the voters, forget the past.
 When the incumbent formally opened his campaign on Tuesday, he mounted the stage of a hotel ballroom to the sound of "Teach Your Children," the song by Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young. Then without ever naming Mr. Edwards, he waded into a speech calling on voters to save the young from the perils of the past.
 "I remember the headlines of four, five and six years ago," Mr. Roemer said. "Mass unemployment, financial bankruptcy, educational failure, environmental disdain, political corruption. We will not go back. We will not turn back the clock. Our children's future can't endure it. Our conscience won't allow it."
 The Roemer campaign began broadcasting television spots showing some of those headlines with an announcer saying: "Then came Buddy Roemer. He warned that changing generations of corruption would be tough, and it is."
 The Louisiana governor's race defies so many political norms that it verges toward the unique.
 The top three candidates -- Mr. Roemer, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Duke -- all have near 100 percent name recognition and already arouse deep passions in the electorate. There are no outsiders here.
 New legal limits on campaign contributions and the depressed state economy have drastically shrunk the candidates' coffers. Campaign spending this year by all candidates is not expected to exceed $12 million. Mr. Edwards alone spent more than that in 1983, the last campaign before the oil bust.
 Finally, because money is tight and the major candidates are so well known, very little campaigning has taken place over the summer. Rather than the long campaigns that have become the norm, this entire race is about to be fought in a short, brutal battle.
 State Representative Sherman N. Copelin Jr., a powerful New Orleans Democrat who has backed Mr. Edwards in the past, said, "It's going to be fast, and it's going to get very personal, and it's going to be a very close finish."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Unlike anyone else running in this race, I have a mission," said former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards, who is seeking the job he lost in 1987. (Matt Anderson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (54%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (54%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); POLITICS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO; EDWARDS, EDWIN W; ROEMER, BUDDY (GOV) CHARLES ELSON 'BUDDY' ROEMER III (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1992



62 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Look Weak For August

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
As children across the nation head back to school, they will be wearing fewer new clothes and shoes and carrying fewer new accessories than many retailers had hoped.
At many stores, back-to-school sales have been disappointing, executives say, and retailers have been forced to cut prices to generate sales. 
 Retailing experts say weak spending bodes ill for the rest of the important fall and Christmas shopping season, which retailers rely on for the bulk of their profits.
Retailers will not release official sales figures for August until Thursday, but preliminary reports paint a gloomy picture for merchants.
 
Not Great for Sears
 "Back-to-school has not been great," Edward A. Brennan, chairman and chief executive of Sears, Roebuck & Company, said in a recent interview. "Back-to-school has been spotty."
Sandra Shaber, an economist with the Futures Group, a consulting firm in Washington, said, "A lot of hopes have been put on consumer spending, but it has been extremely erratic."
Several bright spots exist, notably at discounters like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the K Mart Corporation.
"We are extremely pleased with our sales," said Michele Miladinov, the head stationery buyer for K Mart in Troy, Mich. "We are well ahead of last year." Hot sellers include notebooks and organizers emblazoned with a fluorescent Mickey Mouse.
 
Barometer of Consumer Mood
 Back-to-school sales are considered an important barometer of consumers' mood before the critical Christmas selling season. "I don't ever recall a bad back-to-school and a good Christmas," said Daniel D. Barry, a retail analyst with Kidder, Peabody & Company.
"Parents vest a lot of hope in their children in the fall," said Mark D. Rexroat, marketing manager of school supplies for the Mead Corporation in Dayton, Ohio. "People are willing to spend more money on their children for back-to-school than they are even at Christmas."
Last week, Mr. Barry of Kidder, Peabody interviewed a number of large retailers and said they reported disappointing sales. Stores are either missing or barely achieving their August sales targets, he said. "There is no life to the numbers," he added. "It is really not as good as we had hoped for."
Merchants themselves echo such observations. Sears's children's apparel group barely made its conservative sales target for August, after a "good, but not great" Saturday, said Gary Ramsey, the manager of children's apparel for Sears.
"It makes me nervous" about how the rest of the year will turn out, Mr. Ramsey said, adding, "I can't see any real change in consumers' buying habits."
 
Big Time for Stationery Sales
 Back-to-school items are mainly children's clothing, but the end of summer is also the biggest time of year for stationery sales. Many parents who are short on time do some fall wardrobe shopping while they are in the malls with their children. The season starts in earnest in the middle of August and ends after Labor Day.
"It's been a struggle this year," said Tina Myers, a 31-year-old mother of three from Sicklerville, N.J., a small town near Philadelphia. "We didn't do much shopping. With three kids it's really hard."
She said it was unlikely that she would buy her 15-year-old son the $110 pair of sneakers that he considers mandatory attire.
Anxious consumers are on a hunt for values. At Sears, two big sellers have been a $9.99 dress, marked down from $12.99, and a $16.99 pair of Levi jeans. Sears cut prices on thousands of items.
 
Intense Pressure on Prices
 Pressure on prices has been intense, especially at stores that offer more expensive merchandise. Ms. Shaber, the economist, said, "There will be pressure on margins and intense price competition on the more upscale children's clothing stores."
The search for value is expected to benefit merchants like Wal-Mart and K Mart. Affluent people concerned about their job security are likely to "trade down" and start shopping at stores that offer less expensive clothes. "All of this suggests that the discounters and the mass merchants are going to get the lion's share of the business," Ms. Shaber said.
Michael Gade, co-chairman of Coopers & Lybrand's retail consulting group, said, "Because consumer uncertainty continues to prevent a robust recovery, only value retailers will post great profits."
 
Numbers May Be Misleading
 When retailers announce their sales results on Thursday, there should be increases over 1990, but analysts and retailers say the numbers will be misleading. Last year, consumer spending evaporated at the end of the month because of concern over the invasion of Kuwait. August this year also had one more Saturday than it did last year.
"The tone of business generally has not really improved," said Richard Nelson, an analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc. in Chicago. "But the easier comparisons should make it appear as if sales are stronger."
In addition to a lack of consumer confidence, retailers offer other explanations for weak sales. The weather, a time-honored excuse for retailers, is taking some of the blame. "Nobody likes to try on sweaters when its 95 degrees," one retailing executive said.
Merchants also said that fashion-conscious children are postponing buying clothes until they see what classmates are wearing.
But some trendy teen-agers say they are unwilling to present less than a stunning first impression. "People want their clothes right away," said Jessica Smith, a 13-year-old from Sunnyvale, Calif. "The stores all have sales after school starts, but nobody waits until then."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Discount chains like K Mart and Wal-Mart seem to be bright spots in the generally gloomy picture of back-to-school retail sales this year. At a K Mart store in Bohemia, L.I., on Sunday, Marilyn Cerveny tried to interest her daughter, Jessica, in a new dress while her son, Kristopher, right, scanned the horizon for more interesting pursuits. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times) (pg. D11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (84%); MWV (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (64%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (64%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (84%); KMART CORP (83%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (81%); MEADWESTVACO CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); DAYTON, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; DISCOUNT SELLING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); SALES PLAN (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



63 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
SOVIETS' DISORDER IS FELT BY CUBANS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Last Thursday, when Cuba's Marxist-Leninist Government broke a 10-day silence over the political upheaval in the Soviet Union, it was to announce to the world that it would never veer from its "revolutionary and scientific" path, even after what it called the failure of Communist experiments elsewhere.
The same day, the Communist Party's official newspaper, Granmna, said in a front-page editorial: "Whatever happens in the Soviet Union, we will not move away from the path we have chosen. We will continue with our independent, Cuban, socialist line." 
 Despite this defiant tone, however, experts on the island's affairs say that the turmoil in the Soviet Union, Cuba's principal benefactor, will give the Government of President Fidel Castro new challenges that it may not be able to surmount without dramatic economic and political reforms of its own.
As the clouds of change over the Soviet Union grew more ominous in recent months, Mr. Castro had begun to speak of a "zero option," in which he envisioned Cuba's survival cut off from its traditional supporters and living almost alone in the world.
 
Oil Bartering
 For three decades, through generous economic aid packages and elaborate barter arrangements, Moscow has provided Cuba with almost all its oil and three-quarters of its other goods -- from much food and medicine to machinery and raw materials. Suddenly, as the Soviet republics sort out their non-Communist future, the reliability of receiving these supplies has been thrown into doubt.
"If it turns out that they are forced to swim without the Soviet life preserver, there is little doubt but that they will drown," a United States official who monitors Cuban affairs said. "It would only be a question of time."
In the last year, partly in response to growing Soviet economic disorder, Cuba has introduced a battery of unpopular austerity measures that have included a major expansion of the country's Spartan rationing system, cuts in public transportation, factory closings, shortened working hours and the use of bicycles as the principal means of mass transportation.
While Cuban office workers are now rotated through rural cooperatives in an effort to achieve agricultural self-sufficiency, housewives in Havana and other cities spend long, hot hours waiting in line for meager rations of milk, bread and eggs. For most, meat and fresh fish disappeared long ago.
 
Dissidents Emboldened
 Mr. Castro's bleak "zero option" talk has emboldened human rights groups and political dissidents to make more direct challenges to a system that many Cubans see as failing.
And the lack of hope for any improvement in living conditions has pushed Cubans -- from the pampered elites of the sports and arts worlds to ordinary workers -- to seek exile in the United States and elsewhere. On the streets of Havana, criticism of Mr. Castro and his Government is uttered with a new-found abandon.
Sensing the possibility of an internal challenge to its authority, Havana has begun to create "rapid deployment brigades" in neighborhoods and workplaces, which human rights advocates say are intended to suppress any protests quickly, before they can spread through a discontented population.
"The most important part of the equation all along has been the availablity of Soviet supplies, and it is a fair assumption that they are going to decline even more dramatically," said Carmelo Mesa-Lago, a specialist on the Cuban economy at the University of Pittsburgh.
 
Tourists and Capitalists
 "If there has been a marked deterioration in the internal situation between last July and this July, the next six months will be much worse," Mr. Mesa-Lago said. "Popular discontent is going to expand much faster. And if they don't change -- and tactical changes are not going to make the necessary difference -- there is no way now that they can survive."
In recent months, small but potentially significant changes have crept into the Cuban system, like an increased role for foreign capital in tourism. But Mr. Castro has unconditionally rejected fundamental changes.
The Cuban leader was quoted today as acknowledging that "we're living in difficult times," but insisting that "we will continue to push ahead with our projects, our ideas and our dreams."
 
Erosion of Castro's Power
 Mr. Castro's prestige as the leader of the revolution and his accumulation of power since 1959 have enabled him to stifle the debate over change up to now.
Yet the Soviet upheaval, coming only two months before the Cuban Communist Party's much-delayed fourth congress, are expected to rekindle the argument for greater reforms.
Gillian Gunn, a Cuban analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said:
"My guess is that there is an intense debate as we speak in the party, and that those who have only succeeded in getting their ideas partly accepted, like privatization of large sectors of the economy and free farmers markets, will see their hands strengthened. The prospects for survival are much smaller now, but if Fidel turns out to be more of a survivor than a Marxist, he may yet be able to pull it off."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CLOSINGS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W FIDEL CASTRO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



64 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Some Advice For Entering Advertising

BYLINE: By Jacques Steinberg

 BODY:
THE prospects are daunting for recent college graduates hoping to enter the advertising industry. The recession, belt-tightening by advertisers and layoffs at several major agencies have narrowed the opportunities.
Through those clouds, however, advertising professors and agency executives say they see a glimmer of hope. And they cite what has traditionally been an axiom of the industry: Sooner or later, every agency requires the vitality and enthusiasm of a young person. 
 "Downsizing doesn't change the need to bring new people into the business," said Anne Melanson, executive vice president and director of human resources and administration at Backer Spielvogel Bates in New York. "You still need new blood."
But given the current economic climate, applicants for entry-level jobs at advertising agencies must be exceptionally patient. And with stiff competition for the few positions that are available, young applicants should be extraordinarily imaginative in presenting themselves, said Gene Kummel, the chairman emeritus of McCann-Erickson Worldwide.
While Mr. Kummel preaches persistence and "wearing out shoe leather," he also urges young people to demonstrate something more.
"I just don't think you sit still and rap on doors," said Mr. Kummel, who is also the chairman and chief executive of the Advertising Educational Foundation. "The advertising industry has always responded to people with ingenuity."
An applicant seeking an account management job at an agency that has a car account, for example, might first get a short-term job at a dealership that sells that car, Mr. Kummel said. Someone interested in a media-planning position, Mr. Kummel said, should research how an agency places its advertising for a particular product and then critique that strategy, perhaps making suggestions for improvement.
Such tactics might not have been required in the early 1980's, when the advertising business was booming, but they have become necessary as the industry begins to shrink.
"An applicant needs to be able to tell an agency how he can make money for them right now," said Robert Lauterborn, a professor of advertising at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "That didn't used to be the case."
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the total number of jobs at advertising agencies nationwide fell to 163,800 in June from 170,100 in June 1990, a drop of 3.7 percent. The 1991 figure represents a decrease of 5.5 percent from June 1989, when the bureau estimates there were 173,400 advertising jobs.
In addition, six major agencies across the country have disclosed layoffs in the last three months. Among them were Backer, which has no entry-level jobs available, and Ayer Inc., which is "not in a hiring frame of mind," said Joseph M. Harte, the agency's senior vice president for human resources.
The layoffs at Backer, however, could result in several entry-level openings at the agency in the next six months, as younger employees are promoted to fill the spots of those who were let go, said Ms. Melanson, the agency's human resources director.
And though he is "not aggressively recruiting from the outside," Mr. Harte said he pores over 20 resumes "on a light day" and is planning for the future.
Jim Patterson, the chairman of J. Walter Thompson N.A., offered encouragement to those seeking positions on the creative side of an agency.
"Please come and see us," said Mr. Patterson, who cautioned that his standards are high. "I'm looking for writers and art directors and producers."
Professor Lauterborn said such opportunities are available to the top candidates but provide little consolation to those "in the mass middle."
"It's almost like the Broadway theater," he said. "You doggedly go to all the auditions and someone eventually hires you. In the interim, maybe you clerk, maybe you work as a waiter, maybe you wash dishes."
Jeff Gaylord, who graduated from the University of Maryland last spring with a degree in journalism, estimated that he had sent his resume to more than 30 New York agencies this year.
With no offer in hand, he took two part-time summer jobs waiting tables in Westhampton, L.I. He continues to send out cover letters, however, and even presents his customers with copies of his resume if he hears them refer to an agency.
"You always have to keep your eyes and ears open," said Mr. Gaylord, who is 21. "I'm constantly asking people if they've heard anything."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



65 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2081 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Excerpts From Bush's Conference: 'Strong Support' for Baltic Independence

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's news conference in Kennebunkport, Me., today, as recorded through the facilities of CNN:
 
 
OPENING STATEMENT

Well, nearly two weeks ago, the world watched with fascination the courage of the Soviet people in foiling a cynical coup, a coup that, thank God, failed. We've marveled since in their efforts to build a new and democratic future. Major changes are now taking place in the Soviet Union, not the least of which is the establishment of new arrangements between the republics and the central government. 
 While we await the final outcome, I welcome President Gorbachev's support for the concept that the republics will be free to determine their own future. This new 10-plus-1 agreement speaks eloquently to that.
This is a watershed in Soviet political thinking, equal to the dramatic movements toward democracy and market economies that we are witnessing in the republics themselves. The United States strongly supports these efforts.
The Baltic peoples of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and their democratically elected governments, have declared their independence and are moving now to control their own national territories and their own destinies.
The United States has always supported the independence of the Baltic states, and is now prepared immediately to establish diplomatic relations with their governments.
 
American Assistance
 The United States is also prepared to do whatever it can to assist in the completion of the current process of making Baltic independence a factual reality. To facilitate this, I'll be sending the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Mr. Kamen, to the Baltics.
We also understand the enormous challenges that lie ahead for the Soviet people in meeting their own food and energy needs particularly, and beginning true economic reform.
And therefore I'm sending Undersecretary of Agriculture Crowder with an experts' mission to survey with Soviet and republic officials their critical food requirements for the coming winter, particularly in those republics that are likely to be in the great need. And, a month, a presidential mission led by Secretary of Agriculture Madigan -- Ed Mdigan -- will bring a delegation of senior private sector and government officials to the U.S.S.R. to seek solutions to a winter food problem, if we determine that one exists, and to continue our long term efforts to help the Soviet Union and the Soviet people resolve problems in food distribution.
I've also asked Secretary of State Jim Baker, and our AID administrator, Mr. Roskins, to work with Project Hope to augment and extend my Presidential initiative on medical assistance to the U.S.S.R. through the end of 1992.
We intend to work closely with Soviet and republic officials in both of these efforts. This morning I talked with the president of Estonia and of Latvia, as I did to Mr. Landsbergis of Lithuania a couple of days ago, to tell him of this official position now being taken by the United States of America.
Now, I'll be glad to take just a few questions.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 Independence Moves
 Q. What does today's action signify to the independence movements of the other republics? Does it offer the guarantee that when they declare their independence that the United States will also recognize them?
A. Well, what we'll do is look at each case on a case-by-case basis, but I think more important than what we might do down the road is what apparently is happening there in agreement between the center and the republics, and that is that each shall determine its own future. The Baltics, of course, are quite different. We never, as you know, recognized their incorporation in the first place. So there are some technical difficulties as we go along.
But I think this is very good news that they're willing to sort it out, and we'll look at it obviously on a case-by-case basis. We got to know first what kind of relationship these republics want to have with the center before we can jump way ahead and say what we're going to do in each case.
 
Recognizing Baltics
 Q. Mr. President, you delayed recognizing the Baltic countries, we are given to understand, because of the role of the United States as a superpower and because of your desire not to undercut Mikhail Gorbachev. What are the criteria now that you have decided this is the time to do this? Have you talked with someone in the Soviet Union? Are you satisfied with what the Russian Parliament is doing?
A. Well, I think it's all moving in the right direction. I thought that Gorbachev's statement yesterday, for example, which was heralded around the world as recognizing the right of the Baltics to be free, whether that's a proper interpretation or not -- that was a good statement. And we have been quietly asserting to him for a long time that the best thing he could do in terms of relationships with the United States is to free the Baltic states. And we've been working hard on that.
And so it's taking a final decision three or four more days than somebody else. But in the sweep of history I think we will be proved correct in taking just a few days to see if we can't effect change within the Soviet Union. And I'm very pleased at the two developments I talked to you today about.
Q. Have you had any contact with senior Soviet officials about this? Has this been coordinated with them at all?
A. I've been in touch with Mr. Gorbachev two or three times since my telephone conversation with him.
 
A Central Union
 Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you'd amplify a bit on your reactions to this 10-plus-1 deal that Mr. Gorbachev seems to be working out, especially in light of some of your comments last week and those of your advisers, and the interest that the United States has in there being a Soviet Union, in there being a central government?
A. Well, I can't help you at all on it until I know a little more about it, until I know what will work out between them. You may also remember that last week I talked about the need for them to work these problems out without dictation or decree every day from the United States. . . .
Q. Well, I wonder if at some point, sir, you saw events spinning out of control, that at some point it appeared Mr. Gorbachev may have been out of it, that the Soviet Union was going away.
A. Well, I don't feel that. I think things are moving. It's very difficult for them, but you -- when you see their Congress meeting, as it is, I think that's an extraordinarily good sign. When you see declarations at the center and the head of the president of the biggest republic want to work together, that's a good sign.
When you see an orderly process being worked out for determining just exactly that, the relations between the republics and the center, that's a good sign. So these things are moving. Again, I don't want to underestimate the problems the leaders face over there, but I really think it's too early for us to definitively comment on each republic, what the relations with the United States are going to be.
It is very clear that the Baltics are different. It's been clear all along that we were for their independence, and I think that this step that I've taken today will have wide support around the world. Clearly, in the United States it'll have very strong support. And it's the right thing to do.
And I'm pleased that at least there seems to be some recognition coming out of the center now that this is a proper move.
Q. Will it not be simpler for the United States, sir, to be conducting foreign policy still with the central Government? Are you not hoping that there's some sort of central government for foreign policy and arms control?
A. Well, I think there's got to be some Government with which the United States works on many questions. I mentioned the other day contractual questions. You've raised the question here of further arms control agreements. We've got to work with the Soviet Union in terms of their very important role in the peace process in the Middle East.
And so we will continue to deal with the Foreign Ministry, for example, in Moscow. But as these other republics get on to -- come front and center, we then must determine what their role will be and how they can help with peace, or what they're going to do about distancing themselves from the last remaining Communist dictator in this hemisphere -- I'm talking about Fidel Castro.
And we've heard Boris N. Yeltsin, I think, properly say, look, there's not going to be any aid from Russia, from the Russian republic to Castro. That's good. We're for that position. We'd like to hear the center say the same time.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Is Gorbachev Best?
 Q. Do you see, Mr. President, Gorbachev as the best person positioned to weld the republics together into some form of economic union?
A. Well, I see him as the President of the Soviet Union, and therefore he will be dealt with with respect. People know how I feel about him, and he is in an extraordinarily difficult position now, and he has had our support, he will continue to have our support. This isn't -- policy isn't based on personality. It's based on who you're dealing with.
The fact that I happen to think that he's done an awful lot for the world is out there for all to see. I think everybody in the G-7 and E.C. and all these groupings share my respect for what has been done. Take a look at Eastern Europe as a good place to start. And take a look at this hemisphere, where we've had cooperation, or Angola, or many other things. That's there. That's on the record.
Now, how we move forward? I'll deal with him -- and with respect and with a certain degree of recognition that we look at some of these problems, foreign policy problems, eye to eye.
How it evolves inside the Soviet Union, I once again say: that's their business.
 
Time for Recognition
 Q. Has he sent any communications at all to you requesting that you delay your announcement on the Baltic states?
A. I think -- put it this way, without going into the confidentiality of any communications -- I think the fact that we have waited till now is not only understood but very much appreciated by him and hopefully by others in the Soviet Union.
I like to think that some of these positive statements might, perhaps indirectly, but might be a result of a policy of taking a day or two more, not being stampeded into something the whole world knew we were going to do in the first place. And I've made sure that President Landsbergis and the others understand this, because I wouldn't want to send a signal to them that we were weakening in our desire to have them free.
But when history is written, nobody is going to remember that we took 48 hours more than Iceland or whoever else it is. But what's going to be remembered is what happens, how does it work out. And that's what we're interested in, is seeing the Baltic states quickly get their independence and the freedom that they've long aspired to. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Negotiations in Order
 Q. You called for the Baltics to become independent as soon as possible. Gorbachev in his public statements seemed very vague about how cumbersome this constitutional process will be, how long it will take. Has he given you any assurances in private about some of the practical and legal dynamics and complications at work here?
A. Not in the last couple of weeks. But I've been into that with him in great detail in terms of what he says as the constitutional constraints, if you will. In spite of all that, my urging is to anybody with authority in the Soviet Union, is turn the Baltics loose now, free, clear -- and, yes, there's going to have to be some negotiation between the center and between the states, because there's an overlapping of resource responsibility, where does the energy come from, how do the steel imports go from one of the Baltics into the center. There's a lot of -- and there's, you know, control of one's own territory.
One of the things that we have felt was necessary before full recognition has been control of the territory. And yet, as you see these Soviet troops leaving and you hear statements out of the Soviet Union that give you encouragement, then we feel that they are in a much better position to control their own territory totally. There are still, as you point out, some details to be worked out, however.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a meeting with reporters yesterday in Kennebunkport, Me. He announced that the United States had given full diplomatic recognition to the Baltics. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BALTIC STATES (94%); ESTONIA (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); LATVIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; ESTONIA (USSR); LATVIA; LITHUANIA UNITED STATES (98%); BALTIC STATES (94%); ESTONIA (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); LATVIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



66 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Lithuania Disappointed by U.S. Timing

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VILNIUS, Lithuania, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Lithuanian officials reacted ambivalently today to the announcement that the United States was granting diplmatic recognition to their Government.
They were pleased to have the political protection that it implies but irritated that it did not come sooner. 
 No one expressed the ambivalence more clearly than President Vytautas Landsbergis, who left Lithuania this morning for a one-day trip to Budapest and was unavailable for comment.
A spokesman said Mr. Landsbergis had not known that the announcement of American recognition was to be made today, though President Bush called him on Friday and said that he would have a significant announcement on Monday. Lithuanian journalists speculated that Mr. Landsbergis's absence was a signal of displeasure with American policy.
 
A Gesture to Gorbachev
 More than 30 nations recognized Lithuania during the second half of August. Several have already named their ambassadors, and one, Sweden, has opened an embassy.
United States policy, like that of some other Western powers, was to postpone recognition briefly, apparently as a gesture to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. But officials here consider Mr. Gorbachev one of their principal enemies and disapprove of any policy designed to strengthen or help him.
Lithuanian politicians said they believed they would probably receive some aid from the United States but not as much as they are expecting from European countries, particularly Germany, Denmark and Sweden.
All three Baltic republics, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, are likely soon to become affiliated with the European Community but will probably not become full members for some years.
 
Estonia and Latvia Are Favored
 American recognition of the Baltic republics may encourage private investment in the region, but experts believe that for at least the next few years, investors will prefer to risk their money in Estonia and Latvia rather than in Lithuania.
"I can tell you from conversations I have had in recent days that some important foreign investors are skeptical about Lithuania," said Kazimiera Prunskiene, who was Lithuania's Prime Minister until January. She was dismissed after Mr. Landsbergis concluded that her anti-Sovietism was not militant enough, and she now heads the parliamentary opposition.
"We should recognize that for the time being, we need to maintain ties with Russia and other Soviet republics," Mrs. Prunskiene said. "There is a view here that it is better to have nothing to eat and to ride horses and bicycles than to have anything to do with the former Soviet Union. Within the Government, that is the majority view.
"For many people here," she continued, "it is psychologically very important that Lithuania break all of its ties with the Soviet Union as soon as possible. But economically, that policy will create great problems for us."
The most vital product Lithuania receives from the Soviet Union is oil, which it pays for not with hard currency but with locally produced goods. Lithuania's economy does not generate nearly enough hard currency to buy the oil it needs on the world market.
In the weeks since it became clear that Lithuania was heading toward full independence, officials had been waiting for an announcement like the one President Bush made today. Many view it as a virtual guarantee that no unforeseen problems will emerge to block Lithuania's final departure from the Soviet Union.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Reaction by Latvia, Estonia
 RIGA, Latvia, Sept. 2 (Reuters) -- Latvia's President, Anatolijs Gorbunovs, said today that President Bush had told him of Washington's decision on diplomatic recognition in a telephone call.
"This makes our independence irreversible," Mr. Gorbunovs said at a news conference in the Parliament, which has been heavily guarded by militia since last month's failed Soviet coup. "I ask President Mikhail Gorbachev to follow the example" of Mr. Bush.
In Moscow, an Estonian official, Endel Lipmaa, said the way was now open for universal recognition after a two-year independence struggle. "I'd say this clinches the matter," he said.
Asked if he thought Mr. Gorbachev would now recognize Baltic independence, he replied: "The Soviet Union is changing so much, the presidency is now questionable. But it would be a nice gesture."
Latvian officials said today that they would offer tax breaks to attract foreign investment in tourism and other important industries. "The first target area for foreign investment is tourism," said Arijs Ziverts, deputy director of Latvia's foreign trade department.
The republic's goal is to manage a smooth transition to a market economy and recreate Latvia as a separate economic unit, the Economics Minister, Janis Aboltins, said.
New foreign investment rules are laid out in a bill Latvia's Parliament is expected to pass this year. New businesses in Latvia are exempt from a profits tax for the first two years and those started with foreign capital will escape tax for two more years. Some additional exemptions are available, and there will be no restrictions on the repatriation of hard-currency profits.
In addition to tourism, industries targeted for foreign investment include forestry and pulp, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, electronics, farming and assembly operations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Latvia's President, Anatolijs Gorbunovs, after being told by President Bush of Latvian recognition. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Lithuania highlighting Vilnius

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATVIA (94%); ESTONIA (93%); BALTIC STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%); 

CITY: VILNIUS, LITHUANIA (56%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (56%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; LITHUANIA LITHUANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATVIA (94%); ESTONIA (93%); BALTIC STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%); VILNIUS, LITHUANIA (56%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (56%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



67 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
The Day's Highlights

 BODY:
Shaping the New Order
Gorbachev Proposes Interim Government: Declaring that the Soviet Union was "on the brink of catastrophe," President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and the leaders of 10 republics asked the Congress of People's Deputies to transfer all central authority to them and an appointed legislative council until a new union could be formed. The move stunned and dismayed many deputies, who were effectively being asked to dissolve the only national assembly elected by the entire Soviet Union. Page A1. 
 Critical Unknowns In New Plan: The latest crisis plan has at least as many open questions as its predecessors of the last six years. Critical unknowns include when there will be fresh elections and a new constitution, whether the republics will find a better way to generate economic recovery, and the precise long-term role of President Gorbachev, for the moment the needed agent of national resolve. News analysis, page A1.
Closeout Sale On Sputniks: Officials of the Soviet space program have put the enterprise up for sale. Virtually everything is on the block, including the space station Mir, now in orbit. Science Times, page C1.
 
For the Baltics, Recognition, Joy and Ambivalence
Baltics Gain Full U.S. Recognition: President Bush, rather than continue to wait for Moscow to act, gave full diplomatic recognition to Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, the Baltic nations conquered by Stalin and now on the verge of independence from a crumbling Soviet Union. Page A1.
An Estonian Is Celebrating: Lennart Meri's appointment as Foreign Minister of Estonia seemed to be a mere act of defiance. Now he has been clinking glasses of champagne with foreign representatives to celebrate the reopening of diplomatic relations. Page A10.
Ambivalence In Lithuania: Lithuanian officials reacted ambivalently to the announcement that the United States was granting diplmatic recognition to their Government. They were pleased to have the political protection that it implies but irritated that it did not come sooner. Page A9.
 
Ripples Around the World
Can Cuba Maintain Its Path?: Cuba's Marxist-Leninist Government vowed that it would never veer from its "revolutionary and scientific" path. But experts in the United States say the turmoil in the Soviet Union presents President Fidel Castro with immense new challenges. Page A10.
All Quiet On The Western Front: The changes in the Soviet Union are having little effect on the time-honored routines of military life among the 270,000 Soviet soldiers still stationed in Germany. Page A10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BALTIC STATES (94%); ESTONIA (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (90%); GERMANY (79%); LATVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS BALTIC STATES (94%); ESTONIA (93%); LITHUANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (90%); GERMANY (79%); LATVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); SPACECRAFT (67%); SPACE EXPLORATION (67%); SPACE STATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



68 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3367 words

HEADLINE: Reluctant Regulator: A special report.;
Free-Wheeling Treasuries Market Is at Turning Point With Congress

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
When a Congressional committee convenes tomorrow to examine the Salomon Brothers scandal and its implications, it will set the stage for a battle over the regulation of one of the world's largest and most important financial arenas: the market for United States Treasury securities.
That market -- where $117 billion in bills, notes and bonds changes hands daily -- is the mechanism on which the Government relies to finance the nation's $3.61 trillion public debt. The unfolding scandal at Salomon Brothers is forcing a fresh examination of how the market operates, what rules govern it and how those rules are enforced. The recent query by the Securities and Exchange Commission to all big Treasury dealers is an effort to find out more about what really goes on in this important corner of Wall Street. 
 But even as the S.E.C. awaits its answers, the picture that is emerging shows a trading community governed under a poorly defined set of rules by a reluctant regulator: the Treasury itself, an agency that has grown increasingly dependent on the financial companies it oversees to channel the Government's flood of debt securities into investors' hands.
 In the face of the Treasury's apparent reluctance to be a tougher policman, market participants say, some dealers have grown increasingly arrogant about their power and casual about overstepping bounds, putting the market's reputation at risk in the global finance community.
"People in this market have long had a belligerent attitude toward the regulators," said a top executive at a New York firm, stating a view expressed by many in the market. "They think, 'Hey, we're doing you a favor, so get out of our way.' "
 
A Lot of Anger in Congress
 The very nature of the misbehavior at Salomon -- the use of phony bids to buy more than the legal limit of Treasury securities, and the failure of top executives to take action when they found out -- has generated a lot of anger in Congress. One person there said the firm's activity "communicates a very high level of contempt for one's regulators."
At the same time, the common response to critics, heard even in the wake of the Salomon disclosures, is that the market is highly effective. Market professionals are warning Washington that clumsy attempts to regulate this market more tightly could impair its ability to function efficiently and could burden the taxpayer with higher interest costs.
"The rules in this market are certainly unclear," said Thomas A. Russo, a partner at the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York. "They are not of the 20th century, and they should certainly be clarified. But Washington should not add two and two and get six. The Treasury market generally has worked very well, and regulators must resist the temptation to overreact."
The critical issue facing policy makers is to find a way to preserve the strengths of this vast debt-financing network while correcting a regulatory culture that one senior Wall Street executive said had turned the market into "an accident waiting to happen."
While the scope of Salomon's missteps took some by surprise, critics of the system say such problems are encouraged by the Treasury's light regulatory touch, combined with an equal reticence on the part of the Treasury's agent, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Treasury and Federal Reserve officials, for example, are said to have done little more than admonish firms when they have overstepped boundaries in the past.
"What you had was an honor system," said one senior Government official who insisted on anonymity. "It was not rationally designed. Authority and responsibility were not assigned in a clear-cut way. We have to sit down and design something that everyone is confident about to assure anyone looking at this market that this cannot happen again."
 
The First Skirmish
The Regulators Are Divided

Four Congressional committees have announced plans to examine the Salomon problems and the subsequent questions about the market's regulation. The first skirmish will be the hearing tomorrow of the Telecommunications and Finance Subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, led by Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts.
The key regulatory players will all be represented: Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury, which maintains that its oversight has been sound; E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which conducts the Treasury's weekly auction but has shrunk from assuming regulatory oversight, and Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is showing signs of wanting to take a more active role, even as the other financial agencies hang back. Warren E. Buffett, the new chairman of Salomon Brothers, will also testify.
The S.E.C. is the watchdog for most securities markets, and its primary job is to protect investors. But it has almost no mandate in the Treasury markets except for cases that clearly constitute fraud. With its all-encompassing query to leading Treasury dealers and big investors, the S.E.C. has shown its eagerness to get involved.
 
Differences Are Already Evident
 While none of the agencies are saying much publicly about their views, differences are already evident.
Treasury Secretary Brady, in a recent telephone interview, defended the department's actions so far, saying they had sent "word to the world that we intend to conduct an honest market." At the same time, he said, the Salomon case has made it "worthwhile to review the process itself."
Mr. Breeden, on the other hand, seems to express more doubts about the adequacy of the current system. "Questions about the regulatory structure are not just questions of turf; they go to whether we can design a system that is likely to achieve our objectives," he said. "And our objectives here must be to finance Government at the lowest cost, but also to maintain a respect for law and integrity in the market."
In an interview last week, he gave no indication of what he thought might be needed to improve regulatory oversight of the market. "We are in the midst of a very active and very widespread investigation, and I would prefer to learn the outcome before I comment specifically," he said.
As the S.E.C.'s investigation proceeds, and as more is learned about the Salomon episodes, there is sure to be extensive debate on how to fix what went wrong. But even now, there are widespread predictions that the result will be more power for the S.E.C.
"You will never see the Treasury and the Fed totally supplanted," said Harvey Pitt, a partner at the law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson. "They will set the tone and policy. But in terms of enforcement, it is simply logical that people will conclude that there was a vacuum, and that the S.E.C. is the most competent agency to fill it."
 
A Bit of Dickens
A Large, Simple Trading Machine

The Government bond market was born in 1791 as a byproduct of the original debt-financing activities of Alexander Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury. For years, it existed as an unexciting backwater of the financial markets, the province of a handful of firms. In the late 1800's, the Treasury used only a single investment banker, Jay Cooke, as its agent in selling its debt.
Today, in a world increasingly linked by trade, the vast and still-growing market is a linchpin of the United States economy, as well as of the world economy. As it helps finance the Government, it also sets the benchmark interest rates that affect the cost of everything from home mortgages in New York and California to rates in London and Tokyo to the cost of the Brazilian debt.
For all its importance, the market is a fairly simple machine, a network of dealers who transact business over telephone lines and computer screens, rather than on some central trading floor. The core of the system is the primary market, the auctions where giant dealers like Salomon Brothers and Merrill Lynch and Citibank bid against each other for a share of billions of dollars worth of Treasury securities, ranging in maturities from three months to three decades.
The method by which the auctions are conducted is "right out of Dickens," as Joseph A. Grundfest, a former S.E.C. commissioner, put it. Written bids are due at the offices of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Liberty Street in lower Manhattan by 1 P.M. on the day of an auction. Some firms send runners to deliver their hand-scribbled bids to the Fed. Others install employees at a small bank of telephones in the Fed's lobby and relay their bids by telephone minutes before the deadline.
Back at the firms' trading desks, high-powered executives are talking feverishly to their counterparts at other firms and to their biggest clients, trying to get an idea of how strong the buying interest is. It is this judgment, combined with how rates are behaving in other securities markets, that helps the traders figure out where to peg their bids.
 
Taking the Lowest-Rate Bid
 A typical bidder might offer to buy "$2 billion at 8.25," which means the bidder wants to buy $2 billion in bonds paying an interest rate of 8.25 percent. The lower the quoted rate, the better the deal for the Government, so in this auction, the low bidder wins.
When all the firms have submitted their sealed bids, Fed officials take the best bids and announce them about an hour later.
In theory, anyone can buy the securities directly. In practice, however, the bidding is dominated by the giant firms, like Salomon Brothers, that have been designated by the Fed as primary dealers. They typically buy more than 80 percent of the securities at most Treasury auctions, for their own accounts and for customers.
These firms, which now number 39, agree to bid in all auctions and to continue to make a market in Treasury securities afterward. In return, they are the only bidders other than commercial banks that are allowed to submit bids on behalf of other buyers. They are also the firms the Fed uses to conduct routine purchases and sales of Treasuries to modulate the nation's money supply.
Orbiting around the small primary-market nucleus is the vast secondary market, where successful bidders resell the newly issued securities to other dealers and investors, who add them to the mountain of seasoned securities that change hands each day.
 
A Free Market
A Rule Born In August 1962

The 1929 market crash led Congress to enact the set of laws that created the S.E.C. and empowered it to monitor securities markets in order to protect investors. But the Treasury market was largely exempted from that framework on the grounds that the Treasury was a uniquely solid credit risk and would not mislead investors.
As it moved to using more dealers, the main rules, which evolved over time, mainly focused on the conduct of the auction, including limits on how much any bidder could buy and who could bid. Dealers whose only business was selling Government securities in the secondary market were subject to virtually no rules at all until 1986.
A review of recent history shows that clearly codified rules and stern enforcement have never been a prominent characteristic of this marketplace. Several Wall Street executives and Government officials said behavior by a primary dealer that displeased the Treasury was most likely to result in a private frown -- and a brief public announcement of some small rule change that addressed the issue at hand.
For example, on Aug. 28, 1962, the Treasury tersely disclosed an "unusual occurrence" in the auction of three-month Treasury bills on the day before. A single bidder, unnamed, bid for an exceptionally high proportion of the total volume of three-month bills offered for sale.
 
Rules Not in Any Codified Form
 At the time, no rules prohibited such an aggressive strategy, although anyone who controlled a very large portion of a single issue might be able to extract near-monopoly profits later. The Treasury simply rejected the bid and announced that no single bidder would be awarded more than 25 percent of the total supply of three- or six-month Treasury bills in the future. The limits were gradually modified and extended to cover purchases of Treasury notes and bonds as well. Most rule changes were set out only in news releases, mailed to firms and not pulled together in any codified form.
Although dealers consistently seemed to find ways around each new rule, the Treasury continued its pattern of meeting each thrust by quietly tinkering with the rules. This continued through the 1980's -- a period during which the once-sedate government securities market went into overdrive.
The Federal deficit began to skyrocket, requiring the Government to begin borrowing on a scale that dwarfed anything the market had seen in its 190 years. The Government's debt has nearly doubled from 1980 to 1990 as a percent of gross national product, and the government securities market, ready or not, had to grow along with it.
Through this period, the primary market appeared relatively placid, but problems emerged in the secondary market, where Treasury securities are traded after they are issued. Some small, unregulated firms selling these issues were defrauding investors in various ways, including overcharging and borrowing against securities they did not own. These problems prompted Congress to propose legislation that would bring the secondary Treasury market under closer supervision. The hearings on those proposals now seem almost like a dress rehearsal for the current debate.
As administrative and industry witnesses came forward, legislators asked: Should the S.E.C. assume greater supervision and authority over the market? Should the rule-making authority for the market be shifted to the Federal Reserve? Did the Treasury's role as a huge issuer of debt conflict with its role as a market regulator?
In each case, the Treasury answered, "No." Paul A. Volcker, who was chairman of the Federal Reserve at the time, and John S. R. Shad, who was chairman of the S.E.C., supported the Treasury's position.
In the Government Securities Act of 1986, Congress left regulatory responsibility with the Treasury and omitted any rules over sales practices. But it gave the S.E.C. some power over the previously unsupervised dealers in the secondary market.
 
The Bombshell
Salomon Admits It Cheated

After 1986, other problems on Wall Street held Washington's attention until the bombshell fell on Aug. 9. That was when Salomon Brothers, one of the most powerful and respected brokerage houses on Wall Street, announced that it had cheated in several recent Treasury auctions.
It is still hard to measure who was harmed by Salomon's actions, and how much. Investors are already suing Salomon, contending that its actions artificially pushed up the prices of securities they bought. Shareholders in the firm are also suing it.
Perhaps the biggest concern is that the audacity of the misdeeds, and the Government's apparent slowness in reacting, could damage the credibility of the market, causing investors to stay away and forcing the Government to pay higher interest rates.
Recent auctions do not seem to have lacked for buyers. Nonetheless, the Salomon episode has generated uneasiness about the current regulatory structure -- especially Treasury's role in policing its own underwriters. Government policy experts say such an arrangement does not foster strong enforcement.
"It is very difficult to mix the regulatory function and other kinds of functions," said Michael Danielson, professor of politics and public affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton University. "If my primary function is to sell something, and in the end I'm going to be judged on how effectively I sell it, then I am likely to have problems carrying out regulatory functions that get in the way."
 
Relationship With Group Questioned
 Some critics also question the Treasury's close relationship with an influential industry organization once known as the Primary Dealers Association, now the Public Securities Association. Its members, which include all the big bond-trading houses, consult with the Treasury on the structure and scheduling of new issues. Critics of the current framework point out that there is no separate unit at the Treasury charged with checking for rule violations by auction bidders.
Frances Bermanzohn, general counsel for the association, said there was nothing inappropriate in the group's relationship with the department. "There has never been any undue influence on the Treasury in its regulatory capacity," she continued. "Regulators invite and solicit industry feedback for information. Anything that has been done in this market has been in that spirit."
But not everyone is satisfied by that response. Even during the 1985 testimony, Aulana Peters, an S.E.C. commissioner, declared, "I do think that the Treasury Department would have a conflict of interest." She said she was "a little more comfortable" with moving the regulatory baton to the Federal Reserve. "But if I had my druthers," she added, the regulator "would be the S.E.C."
Others, too, have suggested that other agencies would be preferable to the Treasury, and the Fed is a frequent choice because, as the Treasury's fiscal agent, it is most familiar with the auction process.
 
Need Seen for Clearer Division of Labor
 If nothing else, the Congressional hearings are expected to call for a clearer division of labor among regulators in this market.
"One of the things that should come out of this is a more careful consideration of the rules that govern the entire market, and whether these rules are the best for the taxpayer," said Mr. Grundfest, the former S.E.C. member, who now teaches law at Stanford University.
For example, he said, the Government could change its auction methods entirely -- automating the process, encouraging more bidders or selling a broader variety of issues. These regulatory revisions, in Mr. Grundfest's view, might produce less risk of abuse and lower borrowing costs.
One common bet in Washington is that at the very least, the S.E.C. will be given power to gather more information about the Government securities market. "It is inevitable that one of the recommendations you'll have to see come out of this," said Mr. Pitt, the lawyer, "is that the Government will start now to collect data in a more rigid way."
The immediate focus for the debate will be the reauthorization of the Government Securities Act of 1986, which will expire in October unless renewed. Although the act was meant to deal with problems in the secondary market, similar concerns have emerged following the disclosures about Salomon's behavior in the primary market.
 
'Broader Issues' Said to Be at Stake
 The big question now, Represenative Markey said, "is the broader issues surrounding the need for reform of the Government securities market." His committee and others, he added, need to explore "where we, in the Congress, need to go from here."
Treasury officials seem hopeful that they will be able to keep their pre-eminence as the regulator for their market, although they will not rule out the adoption of new procedures within the department. "We feel our authority is sufficient," one official said, "and we have begun reviewing the rules governing Treasury auctions to see what, if any, changes would be appropriate."
However the Washington power struggle turns out, it is likely that the fate of Salomon Brothers itself will be more instructive to Wall Street than anything either Congress or the Treasury could cook up. As Victor Chang, a former bond market executive and now the head of his own investment advisory firm, said after the resignation of John H. Gutfreund, Salomon's former chairman, and his two top executives: "This problem, and the way it was resolved, with three top people losing their jobs, will do more to prevent future abuses than any piece of legislation which could be introduced."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady defends his department's actions in the wake of the Salomon Brothers scandal but acknowledges that the case has made it "worthwhile to review the process itself." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); E. Gerald Corrigan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which conducts the Treasury's weekly securities auction. (Corporate Photographers Inc.) (pg. D6)
 
Graphs: "The Inner Circle" shows estimated profitability of the government securities operations of primary dealers from '87 to '90 (Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York); "The Treasury Market: From Trickle to Flood" shows total U.S. debt outstanding from '80 to '91 (Sources: Bureau of Public Debt; Treasury Department) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS INC; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; ETHICS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BONDS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); CORRIGAN, E GERALD; HAMILTON, ALEXANDER (1757-1804) CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



69 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Uneven Economic Recovery Shakes Faith in Fed's Power

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The economy's uneven response to the Federal Reserve Board's deliberate reduction in short-term interest rates over the last year has led to a debate among credit market analysts about whether the Fed is capable of engineering a sustainable recovery.
"The Fed seems to have less ability to stimulate the economy today than it had in the past," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial markets research at the Bank of America. "It will be hard to get the kind of recovery we have had in the past with just monetary policy." 
 The Fed's job was clearly easier in the past, when the interest-sensitive industrial sector accounted for a larger share of overall production.
Moreover, the central bank has usually not had to act as the sole pump primer. This time, huge budget deficits at the Federal, state and local levels have effectively removed government fiscal policy as an ally.
 
New Capital Requirements
 Currently, the Fed's job is further hampered by the new capital requirements that it placed on commercial banks. Meeting those new standards is a reason that banks have been unwilling to step up lending over the last 12 months or so.
Even if new credit were readily available, it is questionable whether loan demand would be strong, given the exceptional increase in debt taken on by consumers and businesses during the 1980's, analysts said.
Because of the new capital adequacy requirements, "continually lowering rates and putting reserves into the banking system is not having the impact it formerly did and normally would," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Corporation.
And Jay N. Woodworth, senior domestic economist at the Bankers Trust Company, said, "The slow death of the savings and loan industry and changes in the banking system make it more difficult for the Fed's usual policy levers to bring about changes in the growth rate of money, credit and of the economy."
 
Lower Federal Funds Rate
 Since August 1990, the Fed has reduced the overnight Federal funds rate, which it closely controls, by 2.5 percentage points, to 5.5 percent. And in recent weeks, the economy has been showing some sputtering signs of life, particularly in manufacturing industries.
Since April, a month in which many analysts think the recession bottomed, industrial production has risen by 7.5 percent at an annual rate.
But with personal income growth remaining weak, analysts question whether the rise in industrial activity during the last three months is sustainable. Car sales, they note, remain mired at close to recession lows. A failure by Detroit to move its new models in September and early October could lead to production cutbacks later in the fall.
The view is not universal that the Fed's powers have been diminished by time and special circumstances. Indeed, some analysts say the sputtering recovery may be just what the Fed wants.
 
The Fed's Intention
 "I still think the Fed has plenty of ability to affect the economy," said Dana Johnson, chief money market economist at the First National Bank of Chicago. Seeking to curb a resurgence in inflation, "the Fed has intentionally tried to promote a gradual recovery," Mr. Johnson said, adding, "That intention is apparent in the relatively modest cuts in the funds rate that we have seen."
Compared with the way the Fed has responded during previous recessions, the reduction of 2.5 percentage points in the Federal funds rate thus far is mild, Mr. Johnson said.
"Typically, the Fed has pushed very hard and driven the funds rate through the rate of inflation," Mr. Johnson said.
Based on recent inflation readings, the Federal funds rate would need to drop by roughly 1.5 percentage points from its current level if the Fed were to revert to previous pattern.
Few analysts are willing to say the Federal funds rate will actually decline by that much before a sustained recovery is in place. But most economists acknowledge that lower rates are needed.
 
Value of a Quarter-Point
 "Four percent funds is a long ways from where we are now," Mr. Wood at Bank of America said. "I would be surprised that the Fed would have to move that far to get the economy going again. But I don't think the next quarter-point cut in the funds rate, when it comes, will accomplish very much. The last quarter-point cut didn't get us anything."
Debate about when the Fed will move to reduce rates again will probably come to a boil this week, because employment statistics, the key monthly reading on the economy, are scheduled to be released on Friday.
In advance of the August figures, most analysts are forecasting that nonfarm payroll employment rose by about 50,000 last month, but that the unemployment rate inched higher from its 6.8 percent reading in July.
"The market is setting itself up for how the Fed is going to respond," said Steven Slifer, an executive vice president and financial market economist at Lehman Brothers.
In Mr. Slifer's view, a report that showed payroll growth close to the consensus forecast would provide the Fed with enough incentive to ease monetary policy further.
"Everybody will be on pins and needles on Sept. 6," Mr. Fine said. "That bothers me, but it also makes a lot of sense."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



70 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
When a Congressional committee convenes tomorrow to examine the Salomon Brothers scandal, it will set the stage for a battle over regulation of the Treasury securities market. The scandal is forcing a new examination of how the market operates, what rules govern it and how those rules are enforced. The emerging picture is of a trading community governed under poorly defined rules by a reluctant regulator: the Treasury itself, an agency that has grown dependent on the firms it oversees. [Page A1.] 
 Economists are pointing cheerfully to a recovery that they say has moved firmly into gear. But for those left behind, the recession gets darker with each passing day of no work. [A1.]
Back-to-school sales have been disappointing at many stores, executives say, and retailers have been forced to cut prices to generate sales. Experts say the weak spending bodes ill for the rest of the important fall and Christmas shopping season. [D1.]
The financial troubles of the insurance industry are making corporate-benefit consultants and other experts increasingly anxious about the safety of 401(k) retirement savings plans. [D1.]
 
Companies
Near the center of the tangled financial story of First American Bankshares is the mentor and protege relationship of Clark M. Clifford and Robert A. Altman. [D1.] Clifford and Altman resigned from their executive posts with their reputations tarnished, their pockets full and questions unanswered, investigators say. [D1.]
 
International
The Government of Panama began a legal effort in London to try to recover $23 million that it contends was stolen by Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and routed through B.C.C.I. [D4.]
Soviet space officials have told the White House that their cash-hungry civilian space program may collapse unless it makes large sales to the West. They say almost everything is on the table. [C1.]
A Japanese Finance Ministry official said brokerages compensated cients even though they did not have stock-market losses, raising suspicions that profits might have been guaranteed. [D2.]
 
Markets
The dollar drifted lower overseas in trading subdued by the Labor Day holiday in the U.S. Gold was little changed. [D9.]
The uneven response to lower short-term interest rates has led to a debate about whether the Fed is capable of engineering a sustainable recovery. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D9.]
 
Today's Columns
Dreyfus is making money again in mutual funds. The search for profits represents a shift in strategy for the mutual-fund giant. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Ads for banks and insurers once focused on customers' financial safety. But recent failures have resulted in a flood of ads aimed at convincing customers that the institutions are themselves safe. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
Health researchers and professional associations are making headway in setting guidelines to help physicians reduce wasteful procedures. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PANAMA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: FIRST AMERICAN EXCELIS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PANAMA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); RETAILERS (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); US LABOR DAY (71%); US 401K PLANS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); CHRISTMAS (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



71 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

SOVIET TURMOIL A6-10
The national Congress was stunned when President Gorbachev and the leaders of 10 republics proposed to transfer all central authority to themselves and a legislative council until a new union can be formed. A1
News analysis: The surprise accord is clearly a gamble to prevent the existing union from tumbling in on itself. But whether President Gorbachev and the republics' chiefs succeed is unanswerable now. A1
Reporter's notebook: Legislators say they deserved better A9 President Bush gave full recognition to Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, the nations annexed by Stalin and now on the verge of independence from a crumbling Soviet Union. His decision was delayed by a personal plea from President Gorbachev. A1
Baltic-Americans waited for 50 years for a moment that had finally come: formal recognition of their homeland's independence by their adopted country. For thousands in Chicago, it was a day of joy and disbelief. A9
The Foreign Minister of Estonia hates champagne but has been clinking glasses nearly every night with foreign representatives reopening diplomatic relations. A10
Lithuania disappointed by U.S. timing A9
The Soviet changes may hurt Cuba and force the nation to make dramatic economic and political changes on its own, experts say. Cuba is already bracing itself for survival if Soviet aid is cut off. A10
Soviet troops in German say they're "in the same army" A10
 
INTERNATIONAL A3-5, 14-17
The latest cease-fire in Yugoslavia was shattered just hours after it was signed, leading Croatia's leader to warn that the accord could be undermined by what he said were "serious" Serbian violations. A17
Four ex-East German guards tried for killing at wall A16
Tension among immigrants in Israel led to a brawl at a Jerusalem hotel between Ethiopian and Soviet newcomers. Officials are now rethinking the wisdom of letting the two groups live under the same roof. A14 Palestinian council expected to meet on setbacks A15
A guerrilla leader in El Salvador said his organization could take steps toward "not existing as an armed force" if the Government would agree to five proposals for changes in the national army and police. A5
British visit breaks the ice with China A3
Mandela visits three imprisoned rightists A3
Batticaloa Journal: A priest chronicles atrocities of war A4
 
NATIONAL A18-21, D12
The Treasury is a reluctant regulator when it comes to policing the vast market for its securities. That light touch led to the Salomon Brothers scandal, though overregulation might hurt the business, experts say. A1
Assurances of recovery are no solace to the 300,000 out-of-work Americans who exhausted their unemployment benefits in July, the highest level in more than 40 years. A1
Two prominent Washington lawyers, Clark M. Clifford and Robert A. Altman, resigned from First American Bankshares with their pockets full and many questions unanswered, investigators say. D1
The death of a freelance writer in West Virginia last month has added an air of intrigue to a complicated, long-running court case that has become known in Washington circles simply as "Inslaw." D12
A clash between whites and Asians in Philadelphia left a white teen-ager dead and residents asking how harmony can be achieved between racial groups in their city, which is undergoing rapid ethnic change. A18
New Orleans Journal: A little loud in jazz's birthplace A18
An AIDS rally in Kennebunkport, Me., was brushed off by President Bush, who said he was concerned about disrupted business of shopkeepers and that "behavioral change" is the way to halt the disease's spread. A20
Athiest troop leader ousted from Boy Scouts A20
An old tractor becomes a $350,000 mistake A21
A pigeon shoot in Pennsylvania was disrupted by animal-rights activists protesting the killing of 5,000 pigeons. The police arrested at least 85 people. D12
Los Angeles police reconsider using choke hold A18
 
REGIONAL B1-5
Subway service will be restored this morning for the 500,000 riders of the Lexington Avenue IRT. Dozens of workers checked the repairs yesterday to the section devastated by last week's subway crash. A1
Three people died in a huge explosion, followed by a fire ball, that leveled two three-story brick apartment buildings in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. At least 24 others were injured, the police said. B1
The West Indian-American Parade, which attracted more than a million Caribbean blacks and a few Hasidic rabbis, seemed to blast away much of racial tension plaguing Crown Heights for the past two weeks. B1
Reporter's notebook: Wariness permeates usual celebration B4 The breeze had a little snap to it this Labor Day, and at moments it seemed as if summer had already slipped into fall. But around the region, people headed outside for the final rituals of summer. B1
Nine candidates are battling it out for the District 31 City Council seat in southeast Queens. There are at least three frontrunners, and many feel the candidates are running only for each other's throats. B1
She wanted the best for her cats, so a widow's will specified that they be allowed to live in her Fifth Avenue co-op after she died. But the co-op has a no-pet rule, and a month after her death, the board is infuriated. B2
Student killed, friend injured in Queens fight B3
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
Sports B7-13
Jimmy Connors won at the U.S. Open after capturing a fifth-set tie breaker against Aaron Krickstein to advance to the quarterfinals. His victory came on his 39th birthday. B7
Tennis: Navratilova reaches quarterfinals B13
Baseball: Braves lose third in row B8
Gooden on disabled list B9
Johnson ready for the outfield B9
Yanks lose to Rangers B9
Bo Jackson returns to majors B9
Columns: Anderson on Montana B7
Football: Giants defeat 49ers in opener B7
TV Sports B11
On Tennis B13
Football: Coslet praises Jets B11
Memphis State stuns U.S.C. B11
Horse Racing: Scan wins the Jerome B13
Sports People B13
 
Obituaries D13
 
Fashion Page B6
 
Science Times
Amid budget woes, Soviet officials put science on the market C1
Chemists' new toy emerges as hope for resistance-free wires C1
 
Arts/Entertainment
The great audio conspiracy C13
Music: Anderson Award C13
Dance: International troupe C13
Word and Image: "Biography," a novel C16
The two sides on abortion C22
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A22
The ethnic archipelago
Protest and tolerance lessons
For Council from the Bronx

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ESTONIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (67%); 

COMPANY: JERUSALEM HOTEL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ESTONIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATVIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); SCANDALS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



72 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3342 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Excerpts From Soviet Congress: Time for Drastic Changes

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a session of the Congress of People's Deputies in Moscow yesterday. All speeches were translated by CNN, except for that of Aleksandr M. Obolensky, which was translated by The New York Times.
 
NURSULTAN A. NAZARBAYEV: President of Kazakhstan
 As a result of a coup d'etat committed on Aug. 19-21, the process of forming new union relationships between the sovereign republics was disrupted. These developments brought this country to the brink of catastrophe. The situation that evolved in this country after the putsch, should it get out of control, could bring about unpredictable consequences both inside this country and in our relations with foreign countries. 
 We hereby state that the frustration of the coup and the victory of the democratic forces dealt a crucial blow to the reactionary forces and to everything that had been obstructing the process of democratic change. In this way, a historic chance was created for accelerating the drastic changes and the renovation of this country.
In this situation, the lawfully elected leader of this country in the person of the U.S.S.R. President and the presidents and chairmen of the Supreme Soviets of the union republics hereby agree on the following, with a view to preventing the further disintegration of power and the creation of a new system of interrepublican relationships and the forming of interrepublican and union power structures for the transitional period until a new constitution is effected and new elections take place:
To draft and sign a treaty on the union of sovereign states between all the republics that choose to do so, with every state being able to define the format of its participation in the union;
To ask all the republics, no matter what status they have declared for themselves, to immediately enter an economic union with a view to creating a single economic sphere, and to insuring the normal functioning of the economy and accelerated conducting of economic reform.
Third, during this transitional period, efforts will be made to create a Council of Representatives of People's Deputies on the principle of equal representation from the union republics, with 20 deputies from each union republic delegated by their Supreme Soviets to perform legislative functions and prepare a new constitution of the union of sovereign republics.
Efforts will be made to set up a State Council to be led by the U.S.S.R. President and the leaders of the union republics to address major international issues.
To coordinate the economic effort and the implementation of radical reform, an interrepublican economic committee shall be set up with all the republics being represented on an equal basis.
A draft of a Constitution, after it is prepared, shall be examined and approved by the Parliaments of the union republics, and then finally endorsed at a congress of representatives of all the union republics.
The status of people's deputies shall be confirmed for the people's deputies who were elected in due manner. We hreby ask that the relevant articles of the U.S.S.R. constitution to be suspended.
Fourth, to conclude an agreement on the principles of collective security in the area of defense, to preserve a united armed forces and a united military-strategic sphere and carry out radical reform in the armed forces, the K.G.B. of the U.S.S.R. and the prosecutor's office of the U.S.S.R., taking into account the republics' sovereignty.
Fifth, to confirm strict observance of all international commitments made by the U.S.S.R., including those in the arms reduction area and foreign economic commitments.
Sixth, a declaration shall be endorsed to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens irrespective of their party affiliation, ethnic backgrounds and place of residence, and the rights of ethnic minorities.
Seventh, to ask the Congress of the U.S.S.R.'s People's Deputies to support the request by the union republics to join the United Nations, concerning the request for U.N. recognition of them as subjects of international law and on the question of their membership in the United Nations.
The above measures being vital, we have asked them to be examined thoroughly and approved. The document has been signed by the President of the U.S.S.R., the president of the Russian Federation, the Presidents of the Byelorussian Republic, Azerbaijan, Kirghizia, Tadzhikistan, the Ukraine, Armenia and Turkmenia.
Georgia participated in the work of this meeting. There were observations submitted by several republics. These observations and objections were ironed out last night and this morning during additional meetings.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
MIKHAIL S. GORBACHEV: President of the Soviet Union
 I will continue the work of our congress and I hope that we will be able to move forward working and listening to one another and formulating an agreed position.
I am not going to tolerate any demonstrations or demonstrative claims or shouts or whatever. If anybody wants to try to undermine our work and tries to do that, if anybody wants to cooperate, the Presidium will cooperate in a constructive way in order that we should resolve all issues.
Now, the first thing I want to do is to call upon the president of the Constitutional Committee, Sergei Alekseyev, and then I'm going to call upon the representatives of the republics.
 
SERGEI S. ALEKSEYEV: Constitutional Committee President
 Distinguished people's deputies, distinguished President, comrades. First of all, let me express my regret that the rules of procedure were violated earlier before the break. This made it possible to give an arbitrary interpretation of the process that is ongoing at the present time, which is important for the country. . . .
Now, on the substance of what we have before us, the Committee on Constitutional Supervision totally supports the statement, and let us be straightforward with one another. Our union was not only on the verge of collapse, but was in fact already in a state of collapse. We were in a state similar to that of Yugoslavia. And I am sure that this decision . . . if we consider what has happened, there was no other way of proceeding. We have to move forward, and the representatives of Armenia and the Ukraine are sitting at the table here, and that is a great achievement already.
In the second place, we have to realize that after the putsch, the country has become a different one, a genuine revolution has already started, a real perestroika. We're trying to clean up the ground to make this possible and we have every possibility of doing it.
I would like to go back to the statement I made at the Supreme Soviet. I did not resign. What I said was that we have to clean up the ground and I'm well ready to do that now. So let us proceed along that path. . . .
Many of those proposals made to us have not been properly worked through legally -- the way in which the constitution is to be changed, and the rest. Therefore, I propose that the Committee on Constitution now be entrusted to work on this. We're willing to entertain such proposals so that by tomorrow such a finished document would be in a position to be circulated.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ANATOLY A. SOBCHAK: Mayor of Leningrad
 . . . At the session of the people's deputies of the Russian Republic deputies, the final decision was accepted to support the statement of the President of the U.S.S.R. and of the leaders of the republics on the situation, and on the necessity of creating new governmental structures for a transitional period, to accept the measures proposed in the statement as a basis for discussion, and to continue our work on creating structures for the transitional period which would stop the uncontrolled collapse of the country and which would make it possible to create a unified economic area and immediately conclude an economic union and a unified military and strategic area by creating the necessary agreements on measures of collective security, to reform the army, and a unified political area by creating a declaration on the rights of the citizen and of the individual regardless of his nationality, place of residence, party affiliation, or political persuasion, et cetera.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
YURI N. SHCHERBAK: Deputy From the Ukraine
 Comrade Deputies. In speaking at the request of the People's Deputies of the U.S.S.R. from the Ukraine, I feel it necessary to state the following. The overwhelming majority of votes from the Ukrainian delegation were in support of the agenda and the procedure as proposed by the president of the U.S.S.R. and the leaders of the republics. . . .
In the discussions, some extreme positions were in fact expressed. But on the whole we supported the comments formulated by the president of the Supreme Soviet of the Ukraine, Kravchuk [Leonid M. Kravchuk], which we feel were not sufficiently taken into consideration in Comrade Nazarbayev's statement.
We think that questions of the political formulation of interrepublican associations which may arise should not be discussed at the president congress. We feel that we should not become slaves of any far-fetched schemes. We have, rather, to think about how to make sure that the population can be fed, and how the economy can function in this transitional period. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	For this transitional period we propose that we develop a rules of procedure for intergovernmental relations as accepted by the European Community. . . .
We agreed that very important questions have to be discussed immediately, and it was stressed that full unity is possible only on matters of military strategy. The Ukraine wants to become a nuclear free zone. . . .
As far as the question of the economic area was concerned, it was stated that in view of the collapse of the financial system of the U.S.S.R. the only genuine way to defend the interests of the Ukraine is to create its own finances, and financial system. And we are starting to have discussions on our gold reserves and our debts.
In conclusion, I'd like to say the following. We supported President Gorbachev and it was stated that he's got to be prevented from being attacked and in no way permit him from being relieved of his responsibilities here at this congress.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
STANISLAV SHUSHKEVICH: Deputy Speaker of Byelorussia
 Mr. Chairman, deputies. Yes, the proposals of Byelorussia are very similar to the comments just made by the representative of the Ukraine. Therefore, I have to go into them in detail.
We feel that it's necessary to take as a basis the proposal that's been made, to examine at this Congress.
We're very sensitive to the question of supporting the statement that this congress should support the statements of declaration of the republics. Byelorussia has just adopted such a statement. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
VLADIMIR T. ADYLOV: Deputy From Uzbekistan
 Distinguished chairman, deputies. We have also closely discussed the question and the proposal submitted this morning at the congress. And we support it. We're not going to repeat what has been said by those who have already spoken. We support the adoption of this proposal as a basis for discussion. Of course, we will discuss all aspects of these questions which are of interest to the union republics, and we urge all of you to start constructive work as rapidly as possible, and not to repeat the discussion. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
TENGIZ P. BUACHIDZE: Art professor From Georgia
 The Supreme Soviet of the Georgian Republic hopes that the Congress of U.S.S.R. People's Deputies will take into account the will of the nations of Georgia and that of the Supreme Soviet of the Georgian Republic, and will recognize a renovated Georgia with its new statehood.
Our deputies, the Georgian deputies, support the statement and note the following. While supporting the process of radical democratization taking place in the states, the process of complete abolition of the totalitarian regime, with the principle of orderliness taking the place of violence, the deputies of the Georgian Republic note the remarkable role played by the Russian parliament in the victory gained over the plotters.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
SABIT K. NEGMATULLOYEV: Head of Tadzhik Academy of Sciences
 Dear Comrades, on behalf of the people's deputies from Tadzhikistan and on behalf of the delegation of the Tadzhik Supreme Soviet, I have been instructed to express our principled support of the statement by the U.S.S.R. president and the leaders of the union republics.
We believe that this is the only way of stabilizing the current situation.
From our perspective, it is necessary to set a deadline for the economic agreement to be signed. This deadline, we believe, should be September of this year. We also believe that provisions should be made for the preservation of all the existing economic ties, including the mutual commitments in terms of interrepublican supplies for the transitional period.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
LEVON TER-PETROSYAN: President of Armenia
 I should say that what this statement does in the first place is remove the concern which I expressed in my remarks at the session of the Supreme Soviet last week where I said I feared that the previous union or structures of authorities could be resuscitated while they had long since proven impotent and bankrupt.
The President of the U.S.S.R., the union of the republics, have learned their lesson well from the coup d'etat, have come across the new realities, and instead of trying and restoring the old discredited structures, have set about setting up new interrepublican bodies of power.

 	 	 		. . .	 	The second point I would like to call your attention to is point No. 7 of the statement, which guarantees the rights of the republics to become full-fledged members of the international community and of the United Nations. In this way the republics fall under the reliable protection of international law. I am sure that the appropriate request by the Congress of People's Deputies will be positively met by the Western circles who are interested in seeing political tension reduced in the Soviet Union. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ION KHADYRKE: Deputy Chairman, Moldavian Parliament
 The deputies of Moldavia have discussed the statement and are prepared to consider it a basis for discussion at this Congress.
At the same time, I have the honor and the privilege to bring to your knowledge the following: Considering the irreversibility of the process of democratization, freedom, independence and statehood, and establishment of a law-based societies, confirming the rights of all nations and their right of self-determination in accordance with the U.N. Charter and the Helsinki standards, the parliament of Moldovia, elected on a democratic basis, declared the Republic of Moldova a sovereign, free and independent state on Aug. 27, 1991.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
PATRIARCH ALEKSY II: Russian Orthodox Church
 Esteemed chairman, esteemed president, esteemed people's deputies, a heavy responsibility has befallen us: to witness and to participate in the recent dramatic events in the history of our motherland. We are turning a new page, a new leaf in the great chronicles and the 74 years are receding into the past. An artificial model of a welfare society based on separation with a thousand years of human experience is crumbling.
I recall these words from the Bible: "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it." [Psalm 127:1] They were building their house on the basis of [unintelligible] and the practical rejection of the meaning and the dignity of a human life. Before our very eyes, we see a system crumbling which leaves behind us a grave legacy of spiritual emptiness and environmental catastrophes.
We have no hesitation in determining the position of the church in relation to the tragic events that befell our country in August of this year. I will not describe those events again. We were concerned by the fate of democracy, and it is understandable from the experience of the church, which existed under the burden of the totalitarian regime, which extinguished millions of dissenters and persecuted all groups of our compatriots.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ALEKSANDR M. OBOLENSKY: A Leningrad engineer
 A group of the top leaders of the union republics, with all respect to them, having shamelessly taken all the constructive part of their resolution from the corresponding resolution of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet, did not even mention the Supreme Soviet in its statement. Instead of this they made a destructive contribution, by proposing to form two unconstitutional organs of power -- the state council and council of representatives.
I think that the chairmen of the chambers of the Supreme Soviet simply betrayed the organs headed by them. . . . To put it figuratively, a week's work of the supreme organ of legislative power together with efforts of the preparatory comissions has been thrown onto a garbage heap.

 	 	 		. . .	 	As a result of the frustration of the coup the wind of democratization reached the highest level of executive power of the country, which has so far served as a stronghold of the reactionary forces. A real opportunity is emerging for a breakthrough in the sphere of the economic reforms on the basis of formation of a coalition government of public confidence.
And in this situation the leadership of the republics which on Aug. 18 were ready to sign the union treaty, began on Aug. 26 to take steps toward final dismantling of union power. This means that the dictatorship of the plotters would suit them better than retention of the constitutional system.
I would not want to believe it. Maybe it's high time to treat the Constitution like a whore, adjusting it each time to the whims of a new ruler. By experimenting with the Constitution we managed to bring the country to the verge of death.
There must be something in a society to serve as a basis of stability and law. . . . It was with outrages against legal power that all civil wars began, including ours, which began not with the October revolution, which the society took as replacement of one provisional power by another, but with dissolution of the constituent assembly.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Yes, central power has weakened. It can be easily taken by someone by just kicking us out of this hall, not to speak about physical destruction. But we do not have a right to give it up with our own hands.
On Aug. 19-21 the Supreme Soviet could not withstand the plotters, and it was ordinary people who withstood them by standing hand in hand in the squares. Today our time has come and we must stand up to defend the Constitution. If we do not manage to retain power in our hands we must, by our fate, demonstrate to the whole world the fact of its usurpation to provide for a right to resistance to the self-appointed saviors of fatherland.
And in conclusion. I am going to make some specific proposals. Taking into account that our President issued statement that were considered by the constitutional committee as contradicting to the constitution, could not perform his duty of a guarantor of rights and freedoms of citizens, allowed a plot against the constitution to ripen in his close surrounding, including his personal responsibility for nomination and persistent promotion of a candidate to vice presidency who became the head of the coup. also, taking into account the statement of support to introduction of unconstitutional organs of power, I think we can include into the agenda a question of relieving the U.S.S.R President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, from his duties.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lenin's portrait hung in its traditional place at the Congress of People's Deputies in the Kremlin last December, above. When the Congress reconvened yesterday, Lenin's image was replaced by lettering that read, "Extraordinary Congress of People's Deputies." (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION COUPS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NAZARBAYEV, NURSULTAN A (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



73 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Slump Eases, but Hope Dims Among White-Collar Jobless

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
Economists are pointing cheerfully to a recovery they say has now moved firmly into gear. But for those left behind, like Courtney Anderson, a former $60,000-a-year airline vice president whose unemployment benefits have run out, the recession gets darker with each passing day of no work.
"We're bleeding our savings," said Mr. Anderson, 41 years old, who sat on the patio of his suburban Denver home dressed for work except for a tie, watching his 3-year-old son, Carter, play with a toy dinosaur. "Your finances take a hell of a beating. And so does your ego. 
 "I know that I'm talented. But nobody out there knows me. I'm just an 8 1/2-by-11 piece of paper."
 
40-Year Record Broken
 Despite signs that the recession is ending, more than 300,000 out-of-work Americans exhausted their unemployment benefits in July, the highest level in more than 40 years, according to a study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research group that advocates programs for the poor.
Using figures from the Labor Department, the study also said that about 1.8 million jobless workers exhausted their unemployment benefits in the first seven months of 1991.
The Labor Department has said the total number of Americans who are out of work was 8.5 million in July, the latest statistics available.
In early August, Congress passed and sent to President Bush a $5.8 billion measure to extend unemployment benefits for as long as 20 weeks to people who have been out of work for more than half a year -- a total of about three million Americans. The President signed the bill but refused to declare an emergency, which is required under last year's budget act for the bill to go into effect. Mr. Bush said the cost of the measure would "bust the budget."
For Mr. Anderson, who lost his job last year when Aspen Airlines was sold to Air Wis Services of Appleton, Wis., the failure to extend benefits is galling.
"I contributed to those coffers for 18 years," he said, referring to the unemployment insurance fund, which is supported by taxes on workers and employers. "I worked 60, 70 hours a week, including most Saturdays. I got no severance. Now I'm trying everything I can. But nobody out there knows me."
Unlike some previous economomic downturns, this recession has a distinctly corporate cast. To be sure, many blue-collar workers, especially in the automobile and construction fields, have been hit hard. But many now in the jobless ranks are former white-collar workers. While cutbacks in the late 1970's and early 1980's hit factory workers hardest, this time around the banking, legal and service sectors have been hit with the greatest force.
"Just like the cutbacks in the late 70's and early 80's, it's the result of past excesses," said Diane Swonk, an economist with the First National Bank of Chicago. "But this time it's hitting a different class of people. You don't close a bank like you do a plant. You have a merger. But the result is still the consolidation of workers."
 
Once Certain Work Would Come
 Some former executives, like 30-year-old Peter Schott, could never have fathomed joining the ranks of the unemployed. At first Mr. Schott, a former savings and loan vice president, did not even sign up for benefits, feeling certain that work would soon come. It did not. Now he has run out of benefits.
"I'm going to need work even if its a night job in a restaurant, whether it be washing dishes or waiting tables," he said. "I never thought it would get to this."
Unemployment benefits ran out last month for Joan Skotleski, a 32-year-old Philadelphian who was a purchasing agent for a marketing company until she was laid off in January. Now she struggles to make the payments on her family's row house.
"I am concerned about having to put my house up for sale," she said, "having to sell the cars -- basically, having to sell everything we've worked for."
Steve Mathewson, an out-of-work car salesman, walked into a Denver day-labor office a few days ago and told the woman behind the counter he had experience in sales.
She said they might have laboring jobs that paid $4.25 an hour. Mr. Mathewson, who wore a tie and suit, said he would take whatever they had.
"When you come back," the clerk told him, "wear a pair of jeans and a T-shirt."
 
An $8 Billion Surplus
 Isaac Shapiro, who conducted the advocacy group's study showing that 318,000 unemployed Americans ran out of benefits in July, said the absence of a law extending such benefits was notable. "In the past, when the number of unemployed reached this level the Government has extended benefits," he said.
In the recession of the early 1980's Congress enacted legislation that prolonged unemployment benefits by 13 weeks. In most states benefits run out after 26 weeks.
Job placement counselors say workers who earn higher wages usually take longer to find new work after being laid off. And the emotional toll, they say, can be greater.
"White-collar workers are definitely experiencing what manufacturing went through a few years ago," said Carol Mitchener, a director of the Interfaith Training and Employment Program in The Woodlands, Tex., a suburb of Houston. "And the shock to them is much more traumatic than it is to blue-collar workers. If you are, say, a bricklayer, you know that when housing starts go down you are going to be out of work. But white-collar workers have never been laid off, so it is very devastating. They feel isolated, almost untouchable."
Mark Schwartz, 52, lost his $70,000-a-year job as a vice president of bank in Houston last November. His unemployment benefits of $224 a month, the maximum available in Texas, ran out in May.
Thus far in his job search the highest paying job he has been offered has an annual salary of $35,000.
"We will survive maybe another four or five months," Mr. Schwartz said, "if I am real lucky, and we cut back on absolutely everything."
 
'The Other Side of the Desk'
 Mr. Anderson, the former Aspen Airlines vice president of customer service and ground operations, said he assumed that finding another job would take four or five months, at most. He has been out of work more than a year.
After graduating from Dennison University in Ohio in 1971, Mr. Anderson moved to Denver to enroll in law school, but instead took a job with the airline. He thought the potential was limitless. And it was, for a time. In 1988, after a series of promotions, he was named a vice president.
"I used to be the guy on the other side of the desk," said Mr. Anderson, who supervised 300 workers and conducted interviews with job candidates. "This experience has really opened my eyes. I used to look at job prospects as just that, prospects. I didn't see that this was a father, a family guy, who was struggling to make it."
Mr. Anderson, whose family savings is now eroding at a rate of $1,500 a month, thought he had found the perfect slot recently, and that his nightmare would be over. But then the telephone rang one night, and he was told they had found someone else.
Mr. Anderson's wife, Anne, is working longer at a part-time job -- 35 to 45 hours a week instead of 25.
"We try to insulate the kids from as much as possible," Mr. Anderson said. "But they know their mom isn't around as much as she used to be. I suspect the 9-year-old has some anxieties. He senses that something is going on. He's at that age where kids ask, 'What does your father do?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We will survive maybe another four or five months, if I am real lucky, and we cut back on absolutely everything," said Mark Schwartz, who lost his job as a bank executive in Houston. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times); "We're bleeding our savings," said Courtney Anderson, a former $60,000-a-year airline vice president. Mr. Anderson and his son, Carter, sat in their home in suburban Denver. (R. Emmett Jordan for The New York Times) (pg. D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARWS (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (55%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) AIR WIS SERVICES INC (52%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS; FORECASTS ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); AIRLINES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); STATISTICS (66%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%); DISMISSALS (65%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, MARK; SCHOTT, PETER; ANDERSON, COURTNEY; JOHNSON, DIRK GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



74 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring Big Chances, Bumblebees Just Seek Small, Reliable Gains

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
TO anybody who has been attacked by an enraged bumblebee, the insect seems impulsive to the point of kamikaze madness, willing to risk life and stinger to protect its nest.
But in its everyday behavior while out rummaging for nectar and pollen, it seems, the bumblebee is a model of conservatism. 
In the most detailed study yet of how an animal estimates the costs and benefits of various foraging strategies, Dr. Leslie A. Real of the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill has discovered that bumblebees make decisions about the marketplace of flowers with a degree of caution that would please an Amish elder.
 
Avoiding the Big Gamble
 Reporting in the current issue of the journal Science, Dr. Real said that bumblebees preferred small rewards in measured doses over the possibility of winning big but with a high chance of failure.
When presented in the laboratory with two types of artificial flowers, one that holds a modest but predictable amount of nectar, and the other that sometimes offers huge quantities of food but at other times contains little or nothing of the bee's beloved liqueur, the bees quickly learn to avoid the chancy flower and home in on the known quantity.
The results indicate that the bees make decisions in a manner quite unlike the strategies used by many humans, he said, who often rely on a subjective sense of luck, fate and intuition before choosing a course of action. Dr. Real suggests that the conservative approach is of great benefit to the bee, and that a more daredevil approach would probably doom the little creature to extinction.
"A bee will go after a predictable resource rather than a risky one," Dr. Real said. "Bees are processing information in a very particular way, and following certain computational rules that end up being good for the bee in its particular environment."
The new findings, which involve elaborate calculations of bee flight dynamics, bee energy needs, bee brainpower capacity and bee ingestion mechanics, give fresh insight into why animals make the choices they do about local resources and how best to harvest them.
"The questions he's asking are incredibly important, and it's great that he has an ecological perspective," said Dr. Thomas Eisner, an evolutionary biologist at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.
 
Surprisingly Sophisticated Choices
 Other scientists were impressed by the report's emphasis on bee intelligence. Rather than dismissing the bee as a stupid creature whose every action is a reflexive, hardwired response, as many researchers have in the past, Dr. Real says that the bee uses its limited neurological capacity to good advantage, and that it reaches surprisingly sophisticated conclusions about life from a restricted sampling of the environment.
"This is a question of animal problem solving," said Dr. Gene E. Robinson, an entomologist at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign, who works on honeybees. "Real isn't writing a neurobiological paper, but he's trying to ask, How does an animal make a decision and what do the results say about the underlying neural processes that may be taking place in the brain of a bumblebee?"
Dr. Real chose to study bumblebees because, unlike honeybees, they do not dance or in any other way seem to communicate with one another about potential food sources. Instead, each bumblebee makes its foraging decisions independently.
The researchers built artificial gardens of 100 blue cardboard flowers and 100 yellow cardboard flowers, interspersed randomly, with little dishes placed on top of them. The blue-flower dishes were supplied with fixed amounts of honey and water -- representing the nectar -- while in the yellow-flower dishes the quantity of food was varied. Some trays were left empty, while others were filled far beyond what was apportioned to the fixed blue flowers.
Marking individual bees with daubs of paint, the researchers set them free to forage. The bees began by randomly visiting flowers. With their keen color vision able to discriminate between blue and yellow, they needed only a sample of five or six flowers before they started focusing all their efforts on the predictable blue flowers. They did so even though the average amount of nectar under each flower type was the same.
The only difference was that in one case it was divvied up evenly, and in the other it was distributed with more in some dishes and none in the others.
For another foraging session, the flower colors were changed, with blue representing varying rewards, and yellow the sure bet. The color made no difference. After visitations to only half a dozen flowers, the bees this time overwhelmingly preferred the steady yellows over the fickle blues.
Dr. Real then began playing around with the ratio of risk to benefit in the varying flower dishes, offering tiny bits of honey in some dishes and bigger amounts in the remaining; but still the bees opted for the flowers that had the constant, moderate amounts of food.
Only when the ratio of payoff to risk became considerable did the bees begin preferring the flowers with the varied amounts. But at that point, the average amount of nectar to be had from all the variable flowers was several times greater than could be extracted from the sum of the predictable flowers, a set of odds that could hardly qualify as a Dostoyevskian gamble.
After many additional experiments and complex engineering and economics calculations, Dr. Real has concluded that the bee's fundamental computational rule is to obey what it has deduced about flowers after the most seemingly cursory of samplings.
"They seem to be influenced by short-term calculations of benefit rather than by long-term calculations," he said. "If the bee were just concerned about the total nectar it could extract over an entire patch of flowers, then it might take the longterm average of those flowers. But it seems to be more concerned about the rewards it will get from a particular flower, so it computes the average value very differently."
While that may seem like a short-sighted and small-minded approach to seeking food, said Dr. Real, it actually works to the bee's advantage. "There are lots of other bees and other pollinators in the same patch that are exploiting the same types of flowers," Dr. Real said. "So what the bee needs to worry about more than anything else is the quality of this flower it's on, rather than thinking about those flowers that may be spread out around it."
In general, he said, any given crop of flowers in nature is likely to have been picked through to some degree by other nectar-seekers. Only seldom is a floral stand so virginal that a visiting forager could expect the patch to be bursting with food. Because bees need to keep eating, they cannot afford to hunt around for such a rare blessing.
Thus, it behooves a bee to accept the realities of competition and to make the best of a modest situation, finding a small group of flowers within the larger patch that offers a reasonable if unremarkable quantity of nectar.
Dr. Real believes the bees are so geared toward this sort of pragmatism that they end up pooh-poohing the occasional juicy reward as a probable irrelevance.
"Bees ignore rare events and pay attention to common events," he said. Indeed, his calculations showed that the bees somewhat underestimate the chances of a rare event occurring, which is why he had to bump up the ratios in his variable flowers relatively high before the bees would change their natural predilection for the predictable. "A bumblebee perceives the rare event as being even rarer than it is," he said.
Such an attitude stands in decided contrast to that of humans. "Psychologists have long suggested that humans underestimate the likelihood of common events, and overestimate the likelihood of rare events," he said. "They homogenize probabilities and treat them almost like they're 50-50.
"Humans are optimists, and they believe rare events will happen more frequently than they actually do."
Dr. Real suggests that it is just this sort of faith that keeps Las Vegas and state lotteries in business.


GRAPHIC: How do bumblebees weigh benefit and risk in deciding which plants to visit? In an experiment designed to probe the insects' thinking processes, a researcher set out an artificial meadow of reliable blue flowers, each containing a small amount of nectar, and chancy yellow flowers, some containing nothing, some a jackpot of nectar.
Diagrams: "The Mind of a Bumblebee"
 Bumblebees turn out to choose a safe thing over a lottery. They prefer blue flowers with reliable though meager nectar to yellow flowers with a greater but inconsistent reward. This is a sensible strategy when nectar-rich flowers are rare.
When yellow flowers are made the reliable source of nectar and blue flowers the unpredictable source, the bees switch from blue to yellow after sampling only three flowers. The quick switch conserves energy. (Source: Science)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BEES; RESEARCH INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (74%); 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE; REAL, LESLIE A (DR)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



75 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Almost Broke, Soviet Union's Space Efforts Go on Sale

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
SOVIET space officials, reeling from their country's turmoil and expecting more, have told the White House that the cash-hungry civilian space program may collapse unless it makes large sales to the West.
Almost everything, the officials said, is on the table, even the space station Mir, now circling 240 miles above the earth. Last week, two Soviet astronauts aboard the space station helped to make money for the ailing program by sipping Coca-Cola in an experiment for the company. 
 The anxiety of Soviet space officials has been aggravated by the economy's growing ills and the sudden prominence of President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian federated republic, who has said it is wrong to spend vast sums on space exploration when Soviet living conditions are so poor.
While Soviet officials have tried in the past to market some space goods and services to the West, the new offer is different in that it has no apparent restrictions.
"They haven't ruled out anything," said an American space expert, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "What they said was, 'You make a proposal; we'll consider any proposal you might have.' "
The United States Government has a history of ignoring Soviet sales offers, with minor exceptions. It prefers instead to spend its space dollars at home.
But with pressures mounting to help the faltering Soviet economy, Western experts said the chances of a successful sale had grown. Some analysts have argued that the best way to help the Soviet Union is to buy its goods. By all accounts, those of the space program are among the few that are competitive.
The Soviet space enterprise is the world's largest and mostactive, forged in the cauldron of the cold war. For decades its successes dazzled the world. During the 1980's the Soviet Union fired 100 or so large rockets every year to launch satellites and planetary probes and to ferry people back and forth from the world's only space station.
Until recently, the workings of the space program were shrouded in secrecy, while Soviet astronauts were pampered and hailed as socialist heroes.
But reforms set in motion by the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, have changed all that. The program has come under public scrutiny for the first time and has been forced to become more self-reliant. Starting around 1987, it tried to market a diverse line of goods and services. But the effort largely failed, mainly because of the West's response. The United States, for instance, banned the launching of most American payloads atop Russian rockets, ostensibly for reasons of national security.
In Moscow, meanwhile, parliamentarians and liberals attacked the space program as wasteful and irrelevant. Its budget was reportedly cut 20 percent in the last two years. Planned launchings of the Soviet space shuttle and the world's largest rocket, known as Energia, have been repeatedly delayed and may be canceled outright. Over all, the pace of Soviet space launchings has dropped to 50 or 60 a year.
Now, things have apparently hit a new low.
The Soviets have periodically approached the White House about the sale of space assets in the last year and a half, knowledgeable experts say. But amid the current upheaval, those offers have sharply increased in scope and intensity.
"They're putting a lot more on the table," said one expert, adding that the offer was accompanied by a note of panic. "What we're being told is that unless there is a hard currency infusion, the space program may sink into the abyss. It's not just the manned space program. It's more serious than that."
 
No Response to Offer
 White House officials are reported to be unsure of how much credence to give the new offer, given the swift pace of political change in the Soviet Union and a sense of impending chaos. So far they have not responded. Any decision to buy a piece of the Soviet space program would require high-level Federal approval and would be done only after careful study.
In Moscow, an attempt to contact the Soviet space agency Glavkosmos for details about the new proposal was unsuccessful.
Private experts in the United States said the offer was surprising but not inconsistent with the current political turmoil in the Soviet Union.
"Nothing sounds far-fetched from Moscow these days," said James E. Oberg, a Houston-based expert on the Soviet space program who is the author of "Red Star in Orbit."
Even before the new sales offer, the 100-foot-long Mir station, the centerpiece of the Soviet program for the manned exploration of space, had become one of the minor successes in the campaign for foreign sales.
Last week, after months of preparation, two Soviet astronauts on board the craft conducted an experiment for the Coca-Cola Company, generating data for the Atlanta firm and cash for the space program. An apparatus measured gas-liquid separation in space as the astronauts drank the carbonated beverage.
"The liquid goes very smoothly," Anatoly Artsebarsky, the flight commander, said after sipping from a pressurized "Koke" can. The experience, he added, was pleasant even though his sense of taste had changed after three months in space.
"We want more cans," he told ground controllers, "during the whole flight!"
Coca-Cola was quick to publicize the test but would not reveal how much it had paid the Soviets. The company was not permitted to run commercials about the experiment, but the event did generate some publicity in the Soviet Union. Coca-Cola has sold its product in the Soviet Union since 1985 and wants to outdo its rival, Pepsico, which before 1985 had an exclusive license on Soviet cola sales and now dominates the market.
In addition to soda experiments, the orbiting space station has taken aboard a Japanese journalist for $12 million as well as a private British patron. It is now scheduled to carry Austrian, German and French customers for fees ranging from $12 million to $15 million, Mr. Oberg said. To compensate for increased commercial traffic and to cut costs, Soviet crews aboard Mir are to be rotated less frequently, making their stays in space longer and more strenuous.
 
Selling a Space Station
 And now, with the new Soviet offer, it is conceivable that the whole outpost could pass into foreign hands.
Arthur M. Dula, president of the Space Commerce Corporation, a Houston-based concern that markets Soviet space goods and services, said Mir might cost a Western buyer $600 million to $700 million. He noted that this price was tiny compared with NASA's planned station, which is expected to cost $30 billion.
But Mr. Dula said he doubted that Mr. Yeltsin would actually try to dismantle the Soviet space program. "If it offers a way to make hard currency, I suspect it will be supported," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cola of choice aboard the Mir. (The Coca-Cola Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EARTH (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); TRENDS (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (85%); COLD WAR (79%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BROAD, WILLIAM J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



76 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
An Abortion Program for People on Both Sides

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Scenes from the battleground over abortion, not rare these days, are on screen again in "Casting the First Stone," at 10 tonight on Channel 13. But Julie Gustafson's probing documentary manages to get past the twisted faces, threatening voices and numbing slogans to the more personal beliefs and feelings of a few advocates on each side. No viewer's opinion about abortion is likely to be changed by the hour, but you may come away with a better understanding and perhaps a higher regard for those on the other side, particularly for antiabortion activists, not television's favorite people.
Ms. Gustafson, who keeps her opinions to herself, takes her camera into the Women's Suburban Clinic in Paoli, Pa., where Sharon Owens, a counselor, tries quietly and without pressure to reassure an unmarried pregnant woman who says, "It's like killing my child." Mrs. Owens replies that most doctors believe the fetus feels no pain. But on the other side of the deep division, Alberta Fay Horrocks, holding her new baby, speaks of abortion as "a very violent act" and tells of the help she received from members of Operation Rescue, known for its sometimes illegal efforts to shut down abortion clinics: "I wasn't alone." She has become a "sidewalk counselor" for the antiabortion group. 
 It is in the interviews at home, away from the clinics and protests, that Ms. Gustafson's sympathetic approach really pays off. Joan Scalia, a grandmother, explains as she prepares pasta that she joined Operation Rescue because she could not bear the thought of babies being killed. She says she thinks of herself as being part of the civil rights movement. The camera glides over the religious pictures and statues in her home.
Religion is a powerful theme here. Mrs. Owens, whose husband is a minister, tells of her concern for the suffering of poor unmarried teen-agers burdened with babies. "They can't take that kind of Christianity away from me," she says of the antiabortion forces. But Debbie Baker's fundamentalist Christian faith has no place in it for abortion. Seen teaching her children about God, she says she is offended by feminists who purport to speak for all women and defends her decision to devote herself to her family rather than take a job.
Although Ms. Gustafson avoids generalizations, hints of economic and class differences keep coming through. Ms. Horrocks lives in a housing project; Mrs. Baker notes that her family is far from well off, and Mrs. Scalia says she is old fashioned enough to avoid being arrested at protests because it would annoy her husband. (He says, "A man should be a man and a woman should be a woman.")
By contrast Frances Sheehan, the executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League of Pennsylvania, is filmed in her up scale home. She can afford day care for her 3-month-old baby, and much as she would like to stay home with him, she says she is likely to go back to work soon because of her professional responsibilities as well as for the income. Motherhood, she says, is not the only way to have an impact on society, and her husband agrees.
There are no editorials here. My hunch is that Ms. Gustafson is firmly on the abortion-rights side of the debate, but in a professional decision that some other documentary makers might emulate to the benefit of their work, she lets her subjects have their say without intruding or loading the argument.
"Casting the First Stone" is the final offering of the season for "P.O.V.," public television's series of independently made documentaries. In June, in a review of the first program, "Absolutely Positive," about several people with the AIDS virus, I wrote that the subjects of future programs indicated the series had not changed in response to criticisms from the right that "P.O.V." is skewed to the left. I concluded, not very hopefully, "Well, maybe one of them will take a surprising point of view." If the absence of a point of view can be a point of view, "Casting the First Stone" is the one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: POV (TV PROGRAM); CASTING THE FIRST STONE (TV DOCUMENTARY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; ABORTION ABORTION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); MOVIE FILMING (79%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



77 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: California Finds Lead Exposure Could Affect 1 of 5 Children

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Sept. 2

 BODY:
A study has found that one in five California preschool children has enough lead in the blood to impede learning, impair reading skills and cause behavioral problems that could increase the chances of failure later in life.
State documents obtained by The Sacramento Bee also show that more than a decade after California passed some of the nation's toughest safety rules, tens of thousands of California workers, including painters, plumbers, mechanics, factory workers and wine makers, are exposed to dangerous levels of lead daily. 
 The newspaper reported today that exposure to lead endangered hundreds of thousands of Californians at all economic levels even though its dangers have long been known. The newspaper also said safety regulations often change and are largely unenforced.
"People still are suffering from something described by the Romans," said Dr. Richard J. Jackson of Berkeley, chairman of the advisory committee on environmental health for the American Academy of Pediatrics. "There is no excuse for it. It is damaging to our children and to our country's future competitiveness. We are not in a position to give up a few more I.Q. points to anyone."
 
Worn Paint Is Major Source
 Lead exposure comes primarily from interior house dust or yard soil contaminated by microscopic flakes of lead-impregnated paint that have worn off or been scraped from older houses. It also comes from the use of older pesticides, decades of residues from vehicle exhausts and factory smokestacks, as well as being a byproduct of the manufacture of many items, including water pipes and crystal goblets.
Smaller amounts come from water in old homes with lead pipes or new homes where lead leaches from solder used to link copper pipes to brass plumbing fixtures.
Robert Schlag, who coordinated the three-city lead sampling program for the state from 1987 to 1990 that was cited by the newspaper, said his team was surprised by how widespread the lead problem was.
"In the high-risk areas, the places with older, leaded paint buildings that are downwind of industrial plants or near a freeway, virtually everybody is being exposed to lead," Mr. Schlag said.
The state estimates that in California there may be as many as 560,000 children from the ages of 1 to 6 in danger of neurological and behavioral impairment because of lead exposure.
Exposure to toxic levels of lead extends to unborn children if either parent suffers from significant lead levels in their bodies. The Federal Government estimates that each year there are 400,000 cases of toxic lead levels in newborns.
The newspaper said the identities of companies that violate lead regulations are closely guarded by government inspectors, who cite confidentiality regulations, and that few of the several hundred locations where lead is intensively used in work are ever visited by inspectors.
 
Lead Users Admit Danger
 Government agencies have said lead exposure is the most dangerous and widespread contamination threat to the nation's children. Even the Lead Industries Association, a not-for-profit organization that promotes the safe use of lead, acknowledges the threat.
"There is no question that there are real dangers out there," said Jeffrey Miller, director of environmental health for the lobbying group based in New York City. He said evidence of harm from very low levels if lead was not conclusive but added, "the fact is that there are kids out there that we need to find and put into a corrective program."
The Federal Government banned lead in residential paint in 1978, but it still is legal for industrial and commercial use. Unleaded gasoline has been phased in for most cars, and leaded gasoline will be outlawed altogether by 1994.
But lead's legacy remains in the environment, and researchers have discovered that even minute amounts of lead can be dangerous, especially among children whose still-developing nervous systems make them vulnerable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SACRAMENTO BEE (58%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (56%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (56%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEAD; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; POISONING AND POISONS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; RESEARCH LEAD (95%); LEAD PAINT (90%); LEAD POISONING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (76%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); WINERIES (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



78 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk; Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD;
A View From Vermont, Where the Governor Is Also the Doctor

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

 BODY:
AS political leaders try to redesign the nation's health care system, the only physician who is a sitting governor hopes to use his medical expertise to help shape the outcome.
The Governor, Howard B. Dean of Vermont, was thrust into his role last month when his predecessor, Richard Snelling, died of a heart attack. The 42-year-old internist, a Democrat, had been elected Lieutenant Governor three times. 
 Although doctors seldom run for public office, Governor Dean said he has been urging the medical profession to seek more of a leadership role in helping to stem soaring health care costs and provide care to more Americans.
Doctors complain that many health care decisions are being made in the political arena, mostly by officials who have never treated patients. Yet many doctors view the word "politics" as a pejorative.
For doctors to get their views across, Governor Dean and others say, political involvement through medical societies, the community and elected officials is a necessity.
"Health care is going to be the No. 1 problem over the next five years, and doctors are doing their profession and the public a terrible disservice by not getting into politics," Governor Dean said in an interview. "If doctors don't get in there trying to lead the movement toward cost containment, the public and doctors will lose from the mistakes."
Doctors have untapped skills that serve them well as politicians, Governor Dean said. Most important is the skill of listening to people and learning about their concerns. Governor Dean said medical training to ask tough questions about the facts and to analyze them rationally before deciding on a course of action had served him well in politics.
One of his first acts, he said, was to see that state health department guidelines on AIDS were in keeping with those Federal health officials issued in July. He said he opposed mandatory testing but favored restricting infected health care workers to non-invasive procedures.
Last week medical groups refused to cooperate with the Government in devising lists of high-risk procedures, contending that the risk of transmission of the AIDS virus from health care workers to patients was virtually zero.
Disagreeing, Governor Dean said, "Medicine has to take the leadership in developing such a list, as complex a task as it may be. The public wants a list based on scientific evidence, and any drawn up by politicians and bureaucrats is bound to be worse than one developed by doctors."
Governor Dean said he would scrutinize health care issues, paying particular attention to national health insurance. He said there were four points critical to any plan he could support: universal access to care; cost containment; long-term care, and broad leeway for states to devise new ways to run their programs so they can use Federal funds but decide what to do within Federal guidelines.
Governor Dean views the 50 states as laboratories to find formulas for health care. He said he was "a fan" of Dr. John Kitzhaber, an emergency room physician who is also president of the Oregon Senate and who has been the key architect of a plan to become the first state to guarantee basic health care to all its citizens. The system would be based in part on rationing health care for the poor, with some treatments covered and others not.
Vermont, however, does not need to take such drastic action because its economy is in better shape than Oregon's, Governor Dean said.
The Governor's decision to enter politics was deliberate, but his road to medicine was hardly traditional. He studied political science at Yale, but then could not decide whether to follow his father and grandfather into Wall Street, an uncle into medicine or to teach. So he became "a ski bum for a year," he said.
While practicing internal medicine, he worked for Jimmy Carter's Presidential campaign and became a delegate to the Democratic National Convention. In 1983 he was elected to the Vermont House of Representatives and in 1986 to his first term as Lieutenant Governor.
Governor Dean stopped practicing medicine on taking his new job, referring patients to his physician-wife, Judith Steinberg, a partner, and other doctors. But he said he was still adjusting to the sudden change of becoming a full-time politician. "Lieutenant Governor was the perfect life," he said. "It gave me time for patients, politics and my family."
Politics is said to be the art of compromise. But "physicians are taught never to compromise in their treatment of patients and this spills over into other parts of their lives and their mentalities," said Dr. James S. Todd, the A.M.A.'s executive vice president. "The psychological bent of someone who goes to medical school is antithetical to the political mind."
In medicine, unlike politics, Governor Dean said, "you suggest courses of action and you expect them to be carried out." Also, he said, politics involves a lot of ambivalence, which is an area that "doctors by nature do not like to get into."
In the United States, there has been a physician member of every Congress since 1774, even though running for office means risking a secure professional life for an uncertain future. Current membership of the House of Representatives includes two doctors (Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington and J. Roy Rowland, Democrat of Georgia); a dentist (Ron Packard, Republican of California), and a veterinarian (Wayne Allard, Republican of Colorado).
Although health care increasingly became a public issue over recent decades, a generation of doctors was taught to leave politics to politicians. However, doctors are now discovering that they have forfeited input into key decisions about health care.
The A.M.A.'s political action committee has been sponsoring a campaign management school to teach doctors, their spouses and friends how to work in campaigns, become candidates and get out the vote. Since 1985, at least 10 graduates have won elections, mostly to state offices.
Governor Dean says he will be a friend to Vermont doctors, but will not automatically say yes to their wishes. "There are bound to be things that I'll sign up for that doctors won't like," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Health care is going to be the No. 1 problem over the next five years," said Gov. Howard B. Dean of Vermont, a physician. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (95%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; VERMONT UNITED STATES (95%); VERMONT, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AIDS & HIV (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); DEATHS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); TRENDS (63%); VIRUSES (62%); 

PERSON: DEAN, HOWARD B (GOV); ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



79 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Battles Computer Company, Writer Takes Vision of Evil to Grave

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The death of a freelance writer in West Virginia on Aug. 10 has added an air of intrigue to a complicated, long-running court case that has become known in Washington circles simply as "Inslaw."
The case involves accusations that Justice Department officials were involved in fraud and theft. It was moving quietly through the Federal courts, and a Congressional investigating panel was holding hearings even before the death of Danny Casolaro, a 44-year-old magazine writer and novelist from Fairfax, Va. 
 But because Mr. Casolaro had been openly delving into the case and saying he believed it was part of a huge Government-wide scandal, and because there is considerable mystery about how he died -- he either committed suicide or was murdered, depending on whom one listens to -- the case has suddenly attracted major attention.
 
Agreement and Denial

 It involves allegations that some Justice Department officials schemed to steal advanced record-keeping computer programming from a small Washington computer company, Inslaw Inc. Even those who assert that a theft occurred have not agreed on whether it was from simple greed, a vendetta by department officials or something even more sinister, like the use of the purloined system to generate money for paying off political debts and to finance secret spy operations.
The Justice Department does not dispute that it contracted with Inslaw for use of the computer software, specifically developed to track the Government's huge, complicated load of criminal cases. But the department flatly denies Inslaw's accusations that it bargained in bad faith and withheld payments from Inslaw on the false pretext of contract violations, thereby driving the company to the brink of insolvency shortly before it could complete installation of the system and leaving the department in effective control of the software.
But Elliot L. Richardson, the lawyer for Inslaw, has called upon the Justice Department to hire someone to investigate the Inslaw case and Mr. Casolaro's death. Mr. Richardson, who resigned as Attorney General during the Watergate scandals rather than do President Richard Nixon's bidding, says he knows a Government scandal when he sees one.
"I propose to pursue the matter," Mr. Richardson said. "There is more than enough out there to raise suspicions."
The owner of Inslaw, William Hamilton, has been in and out of court for more than eight years, fighting to recover his investment and full control of his programming, designed to straighten out a record-keeping system that had defied the software of much larger computer companies. Two courts have upheld his contention that the department conspired to steal his system and drive him out of business, leaving him with a loss of more than $6 million. But an appeals court has held that the case should be retried because it was out of the jurisdiction of the first two courts.
 
Action in Congress
 A Senate committee looked into the Inslaw case several years ago but said it was unable to reach a conclusion because the Justice Department refused to hand over pertinent documents.
More recently, the Economic and Commercial Law Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee began holding hearings. But House investigators, like the Senate investigators, say they have been hampered by the Justice Department's refusal to hand over all documents, and also by the refusal of the Bush White House to order the department to acquiesce.
Representative Jack Brooks, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary committee, has warned that he will take "whatever steps are necessary" to compel the department to comply when hearings resume after the Congressional recess.
Justice Department officials contend that they have given House investigators all pertinent documents. "We've made everything available," said Doug Tillett, a department spokesman.
 
Saw a Wide Plot
 Mr. Casolaro saw the Inslaw case as part of broad conspiracy by officials of the last two Presidential administrations. He referred to the case as "the octopus" and said it involved a tangled series of shady doings involving everything from Inslaw to the Iran-contra scandal to tampering with a Presidential election to money laundering by the scandal-ridden Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
Under his theory, according to some of his acquaintances, Reagan Administration appointees in the Justice Department stole the Inslaw computer system to give to some friends as a political payoff. The friends, Mr. Casolaro said, had been responsible in 1980 for persuading Iranians who were holding American Embassy hostages in Teheran not to release them until after that year's Presidential election.
According to that theory, backers of Ronald Reagan in 1980 wanted to block an "October surprise" by President Jimmy Carter -- a release of the hostages just before Election Day that would have greatly enhanced Mr. Carter's chances of re-election. As it turned out, Mr. Carter was soundly defeated, and the hostages were not freed until Ronald Reagan was inaugurated as President in 1981.
Mr. Casolaro also believed, his friends say, that the money gained through sale of the computer system, purportedly marketed to other governments that paid for it with American aid money, was funneled through the B.C.C.I. Some of the money, Mr. Casolaro contended, went into private accounts and the rest was put into hidden United States intelligence accounts for use by both the Reagan and Bush administrations for secret operations in Central America and elsewhere.
Mr. Casolaro was divorced and had a son. A gregarious former high school boxer who wrote a novel, "The Ice King," and a number of magazine articles on computers before devoting full time to his "octopus" investigation, never succeeded in proving his theory. On Aug. 10, not long after he told friends that he had received several threats on his life, he was found dead, with his wrists slashed, in the bathtub of his hotel room in Martinsburg, W.Va.
Was Mr. Casolaro, who, according to relatives was in West Virginia to talk to a "major source," on to something? Or was he chasing his imagination?
West Virginia authorities, pending medical tests and further investigation, say he apparently took his own life. The latest round of tests, the office of the state medical examiner announced Tuesday, found evidence of a pain killer and an anti-depressant in his blood, but neither in a quantity that could have rendered him unconscious nor that would suggest foul play.
Spurning reports that he was given to bouts of despondency, Mr. Casolaro's family and friends say he may have been murdered. "Danny was dealing with some people who were pretty bad players," said his brother, Dr. Anthony Casolaro, a critical-care specialist from Arlington, Va. "It's hard in my heart to believe that he killed himself."
 
'Even More Bizarre'
 Officials at the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation say they have seen nothing regarding the death that would impel them to become involved in investigating it.
"Conspiracy theories are normally bizarre, but this one is even more bizarre than most because it has no basis in fact," Mr. Tillett of the Justice Department said.
The White House refuses to comment on the Casalaro case or the "octopus" conspiracy allegation other than to point out that President Bush has repeatedly denied involvement in any scheme to delay release of the hostages in Iran. "This is basically a matter for the Justice Department," said Judy Smith, a White House spokeswoman.
Congressional investigators have not yet decided whether to look into Mr. Casolaro's death when they resume hearings on the Inslaw case.
Terry Miller, who was a friend of Mr. Casolaro, says he spoke frequently with him about his work. "He told me he was beginning to get threatening phone calls, and I was concerned for him," said Mr. Miller, a Washington-based consultant on government contracting.
Inslaw's owner, Mr. Hamilton, says he does not know how close Mr. Casolaro was to proving his theory. But Mr. Hamilton said he was making progress, particularly in recent months. "I think he was murdered," Mr. Hamilton said.
But several people who have looked at the notes and papers Mr. Casolaro compiled say they are mostly a rehash. "There was nothing in them, essentially, that had not previously been in the news, that you had not heard before," said Roger Donald, the publisher of Little, Brown & Company, a New York publisher whom Mr. Casolaro once approached with a book suggestion.
"There was no book there, only an on-going investigation," Mr. Donald added. "There was no real evidence that he was about to uncover some huge governmental conspiracy."
Ultimately, it appears, Mr. Casolaro saw the Inslaw case as the key element in his investigation, if for no other reason than that courts and Congressional committees have confirmed a number of his suspicions.
For example, the second court to consider the case, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, concluded: "The Government acted willfully and fraudulently to obtain property that it was not entitled to. . . . There is no evidence that the Government ever negotiated in good faith."
What no court has found is the sort of conspiracy seen by Mr. Casolaro.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny Casolaro, a freelance writer, was found dead in his hotel room in Martinsburg, W. Va. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; INSLAW INC INSLAW INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; INSLAW INC US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); SCANDALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MURDER (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BAD FAITH (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); SUICIDE (54%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; CASOLARO, DANNY RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



80 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Slaying Divides A Neighborhood On Racial Lines

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 2

 BODY:
It is not readily apparent how much tension and trouble lurk in the working-class neighborhood where David Reilly lived and died in Southwest Philadelphia.
Children on Chester Street play touch football on the pavement and family men play softball in a "beer belly league" on a nearby asphalt schoolyard. American flags wave here and there over front stoops of row houses. 
 But the signs of conflict are there in Mr. Reilly's neighborhood, between Cobbs Creek and Woodland Avenue. A police car is regularly parked outside a row house. And McCreesh Park, a popular hangout for youths, is nearly empty at night.
It has been a month since Mr. Reilly, an 18-year-old former high school basketball star, was stabbed to death in the park in what the police say was a clash between whites and Asians. Shortly after the incident, Ty Truong, a 24-year-old Chinese-Vietnamese restaurant worker, was charged with the murder.
 
Fear of Reprisals
 The police are parked outside the home of Mr. Truong and his sister, Lan Truong, 28, who said she came to the United States as a refugee from Vietnam in 1979 because "I wanted a freedom country."
The Asians fear reprisals for the slaying. Some young whites in the neighborhood unblinkingly refer to Asians as "gooks" and speak about them in threatening tones. Many Asian families say they venture outside only when absolutely necessary.
The widely publicized tensions have forced some Philadelphians to begin asking tough questions about how harmony can be achieved between racial and ethnic groups in their city, which, like much of urban America, is undergoing rapid change.
"America is never going to be what it used to be," said Leah Gaskin Coles, executive director of the Philadelphia Commission on Human Rights. "Diversity will be the life style of this country, and nobody is safe to say that they are not going to participate in this diversity."
Many whites in Southwest Philadelphia are unable to move anywhere better. But for the Asian newcomers, Southwest Philadelphia is a first step in moving into the American mainstream.
The cycle of mistrust and misunderstanding that has characterized parts of Southwest Philadelphia, like the neighborhood where Mr. Reilly lived, is similar to that in troubled New York neighborhoods like Bensonhurst, Canarsie and, more recently, Crown Heights, Dr. Coles said.
Figures from the census show how the racial and ethnic composition of Philadelphia, a city of more than 1.5 million people, is being rewritten.
The number of Asians in the city rose to 43,522 last year from 17,764 in 1980. The number of Hispanic Philadelphians rose to 89,193 from 63,570. The city's black population fell slightly, to 631,936 from 638,878, while the number of whites declined, to 848,586 last year from 983,084 in 1980.
Sociologists studying ethnic conflict in neighborhoods like Southwest Philadelphia say the problems are more complex than simple racism and are often greatly influenced by forces like the loss of industrial jobs and by national economic and housing policies. Moreover, the problems are sometimes magnified by the refugees' difficulties in adjusting to a new world and new life, the experts say.
 
Lost Manufacturing Jobs
 "Neighborhoods which are segregated internally and are relatively poor and have lost manufacturing jobs are neighborhoods where you are most likely to find integration conflict," said William L. Yancey, a sociology professor at Temple University.
In the 1950's and 1960's large numbers of middle-class whites were able to abandon much of West Philadelphia for new and better housing in nearby suburbs, opening the way for the area to become predominantly black, Dr. Yancey said. By comparison, he said, many whites in declining areas like Southwest Philadelphia are "economically entrapped."
"Even if they wanted to move, they are hard-pressed to do so," he said. "They can't sell their houses and get enough for a new house in suburbia."
Fear and frustration are an understandable consequence, sociologists said.
"I think they feel like they can push us out," Tony Burns, 14, said about Asians moving into his neighborhood. "We ain't going nowhere."
Beginning in 1975, large numbers of Southeast Asians, many of whom were refugees from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, began settling in Philadelphia, a study by the Commission on Human Relations found. Many were placed there by resettlement agencies because the housing was stable and affordable. When relatives and other Southeast Asians followed, they settled in the same neighborhoods for support and a sense of the familiar in unfamiliar surroundings, said Samien Nol, executive director of Southeast Asian Mutual Assistance Association Coalition here.
By the mid-1980's, Southwest Philadelphia had the largest population of Southeast Asians in the city, said Elaine Simon, associate director of the Urban Studies Program at the University of Pennsylvania.
With mass immigration disruptions have come in the traditional ways of life and behavior among some young Asians.
"Some of these who have grown up in this country have picked up the bad habits of the inner city, too," Mr. Nol said.
The fears and frustrations of urban children from Southeast Asia, as well as those of many of their parents, are multiplied when they encounter native-born Americans who do not understand them.
 
'I Want to Leave'
 "This neighborhood is stupid," said a teen-age Vietamese girl who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals. "It's prejudiced and I want to leave, go to Canada."
Mr. Nol said he had recently taken several trips through Southwest Philadelphia, though he would not get out of his car there. He said he, too, is worried by the possibility of anti-Asian acts.
But Lan Truong, the murder suspect's sister, has no such choice.
When visitors come, she peeks from behind sun-faded curtains, even with police officers parked less than 25 feet away, before answering the door.
"I had no trouble before," Ms. Truong said in halting English. "Now police guard me. They protect me."
She said she came to Southwest Philadelphia from Queens two years ago because she heard the rent was cheaper here. It was. She pays $250 a month for a row house. In New York she paid $600 a month for two rooms for her and her three children.
Unemployed, she spends much of her days worrying about her brother, who is in jail awaiting a bail hearing.
"My brother did not do it," Ms. Truong insisted. She said he went to a movie in New Jersey the day of the stabbing. He came home shortly before the killing and could not have had time to get involved in it, she said.
But a witness told the authorities that Ty Truong was the leader of a group of Asian youths armed with knives and that he killed Mr. Reilly.
 
'We Were Standing Around'
 A burly 24-year-old white man who was interviewed in the neighborhood recently and who would identify himself only as Rob, said he was with Mr. Reilly in McCreesh Park the morning of Aug. 3.
"It was about 2:30 in the morning and we were standing around drinking some beer," he said. He said some of his friends walked over to a group of Asians who were in another part of the park and asked them if one of them had recently pulled a knife on a white youth from the neighborhood.
One of the Asians walked away and out of the park, Rob said.
Minutes later, about a dozen Asians returned "with cleavers, knives and stuff," Rob said. "They ran right up behind him and stabbed him," he said of Mr. Reilly.
Rob said he and his friends ran. Mr. Reilly ran with them, but in a few moments he said his back hurt, and he collapsed.
"Blood was just pouring out of him," Rob said.
Mr. Reilly died a short time later in a hospital. For more than a week, flowers marked the place where he fell.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four youths in the working-class neighborhood between Cobbs Creek and Woodland Avenue in Southwest Philadelphia, where David Reilly, a former high school basketball player, was killed last month. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; RACIAL RELATIONS; VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; YOUTH GANGS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); MURDER (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); DEATHS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); SOFTBALL (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); REFUGEES (71%); GANGS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); TRENDS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL; TRUONG, TY; REILLY, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



81 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: BUSH PLAYS DOWN PROTEST ON AIDS

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Sept. 2

 BODY:
President Bush today brushed off a weekend demonstration near his home by advocates for people with AIDS, saying that he was concerned about local shopkeepers whose business was disrupted and that "behavioral change" is the best way to halt the disease's spread.
At a news conference on independence for the Baltic republics, Mr. Bush was asked about the protest, in which more than 1,000 people marched through the center of Kennebunkport on Sunday, scattered condoms and leaflets along the way and were stopped by police officers and Secret Service agents about a half-mile from the President's home on Walker's Point. 
 The march was one of several here during Mr. Bush's August vacation, including ones by anti-abortion groups, by supporters of abortion rights and by the unemployed.
The President was asked if he "got the message" from the AIDS protesters, who called on Mr. Bush to exert greater leadership in educating Americans about the disease. Mr. Bush, who often appears to be uncomfortable dealing with this kind of issue, said he did not agree with the marchers.
"Well, I'm not in favor of federally funding needle programs," he said. "I am in favor of the most efficient and effective research possible. I'm in favor of compassion. I'm in favor of behavioral change. Here's a disease where you can control its spread by your own personal behavior.
"So if the message is compassion, I got it loud and clear."
 
Defends His Own Recorde
 Mr. Bush defended his Administration's record on financing AIDS research and then added: "To the degree the message hit some little merchant in Kennebunkport on the best weekend possible and caused that person to close his doors, I got that part of it and didn't like it. To the degree they stayed within the law and weren't arrested, I support that kind of First Amendment demonstration."
Mr. Bush indicated he was more moved by the march by the unemployed. "That was the one I was concerned about," he said. "That one hit home, because when a family is out of work, that's one I care very much about."
The President said the AIDS march on Sunday was a publicity stunt. "You know why they were here, I know why they were here," he told reporters. "They were here because you all are here. They were here because they could get disproportionate television coverage, and to some degree print coverage, because the President happened to be at his ancestral home. And I understand that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); BALTIC STATES (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENNEBUNKPORT (ME) UNITED STATES (79%); BALTIC STATES (72%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS AIDS & HIV (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); RIOTS (70%); ABORTION (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



82 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Professor's Racial Theories Fall Wide of Mark

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Hugh Pearson (letter, Aug. 20) asserts that, since Jews were money lenders and money lenders financed the slave trade, Prof. Leonard Jeffries Jr.'s statement "Everyone knows rich Jews helped finance the slave trade" is not "irrational." This argument misses an essential weakness of the statement. 
 Even assuming its factual validity, there is still the question of whether the Jewish money lenders financed the trade because they were Jews or because, like other, non-Jewish money lenders, they saw an opportunity to make money.
Similarly, did Jewish movie-studio executives help propagate "negative images" of black Americans because they were Jews or because, like business executives everywhere, they were unwilling to endanger profits by bucking cultural stereotypes?
The relevant variable is not ethnicity but occupation: money lenders in search of profit in one instance and capitalist businessmen in the other.
But Professor Jeffries's statement is not simply an intellectual error of analysis. The emphasis on ethnicity distracts attention from the more important occupational imperatives of money lenders and businessmen.
The motivations of businessmen result in actions that help reproduce and reinforce patterns of racism in our society. The past and present economic and social status of black Americans is not the result of a historical Jewish conspiracy or of Machiavellian Italian intrigues, but of fundamental social and economic processes.
The views of Professor Jeffries function in much the same manner as did the ideology of the Ku Klux Klan and other nativist groups in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. His arguments, like theirs, direct attention and energy to phantasmal shadows, rather than the very real institutional sources of the plight of black Americans.
 
MURRAY HAUSKNECHT
Long Island City, Queens, Aug. 20, 1991
 
The writer is professor emeritus of sociology, Lehman College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (CCNY)

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (CCNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RACIAL RELATIONS; ANTI-SEMITISM; JEWS; BLACKS (IN US) JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SLAVERY (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: JEFFRIES, LEONARD JR (PROF); HAUSKNECHT, MURRAY

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



83 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: A Friendship, a Washington Bank and a Trail of Money Leading to B.C.C.I.;
Clifford and Altman, Mentor and Protege, At Center of Inquiry

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Somewhere near the center of the tangled financial story of First American Bankshares Inc., Washington's largest bank holding company, is the mentor and protege relationship of Clark M. Clifford and his junior law partner, Robert A. Altman.
At 85 years old, Mr. Clifford, a former poker-playing partner of President Truman and Winston Churchill, was the Secretary of Defense who helped persuade President Johnson to wind down the Vietnam War, the man who counseled President Kennedy about his private life, and the diplomat sent on special missions by President Carter. 
 Mr. Altman, at 44 years old, has done little in his adult life but practice corporate law and prosper under Clark Clifford at their small Washington law firm. Until he became embroiled in the widening problems surrounding First American, Mr. Altman was best known as the husband of Lynda Carter, the actress and model who starred in the television series "Wonder Woman."
As Federal and New York State officials intensify their investigations of how First American came to be secretly controlled by the Luxembourg-based Bank of Credit and Commerce International, Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman stand at the center of the prosecutorial bull's-eye.
The focus of the investigators' interest is the role of the two men in helping a group of Middle Eastern investors take over First American in 1982. Federal regulators approved the takeover after assurances from Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman that First American would have nothing to do with B.C.C.I., a largely unregulated international bank that was trying to expand its reach into the United States.
Mr. Clifford became First American's chairman, and Mr. Altman its president.
But this year, facts became known that strongly suggested to investigators that Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman played a far different role than what they had described.
In January, an audit disclosed that several original investors in First American had been merely fronting for B.C.C.I.; that Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman were given loans by B.C.C.I. on unusually favorable terms to buy First American stock, and that in little more than a year they sold that stock for a profit of $9.8 million. The nominal buyer of the stock was a small money-lender whose purchase was bankrolled by a shadowy B.C.C.I. affiliate.
One of the first indications that B.C.C.I. had a secret interest in the Clifford and Altman bank was in September 1988, when a B.C.C.I. official was heard on a tape recording bragging to an undercover Customs Bureau agent on the trail of the Panamanian leader Manuel A. Noriega. The official said that his company controlled a bank in Washington through Mr. Clifford. He described Mr. Clifford as "practically the godfather of the Democratic Party" and Mr. Altman as the man "married to Wonder Woman."
Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman resigned their First American posts on Aug. 14, insisting that it was for the good of the bank. But it was clear that they had been forced out by Federal regulators and the bank's board.
The personal Clifford-Altman story begins in the early 1970's, when Mr. Clifford rejoined a small Washington law firm that specialized in helping blue-chip corporate clients navigate the capital.
 
Views on Vietnam
 During his term as Secretary of Defense, which ended in 1969, he was transformed from a hawk on Vietnam to someone convinced it was a grave mistake to continue the war. The issue of Vietnam meant something different to Mr. Altman's generation, a choice of whether to serve or resist. Mr. Altman was spared that decision because asthma assured him a medical deferment.
He enrolled in George Washington University Law school after graduating from the University of Wisconsin. The Clifford firm asked the law school to recommend a summer clerk in 1971 and Prof. David Seidelson, greatly impressed with Mr. Altman even as a first-year student, sent him.
After graduation, at the age of 25, Mr. Altman joined the lobbying firm and began a relationship with Mr. Clifford that deepened as Mr. Clifford grew to depend on his younger colleague. The adulation of the younger man, friends said, was repaid by a growing respect from the older.
"There is obviously a strong bond there," said one lawyer who spoke on the condition that he not to be identified. "Clark has great respect for his legal skills and a personal affection for him."
Over the years, Mr. Altman picked up some of Mr. Clifford's trademark habits. Frequently dressed in the dark double-breasted suits associated with Mr. Clifford, Mr. Altman will often put his hands together at the fingertips, a gesture so identified with his mentor that it is known in Washington as the "Clifford tent" or "Clifford steeple."
 
Some Traits Not Shared
 Some gestures that Mr. Clifford has brought off with great panache over the years Mr. Altman does not try to duplicate. Mr. Clifford likes to telephone lawyers and officials and introduce himself with an exaggerated modesty, saying, "My name is Clark Clifford, and I practice law in Washington," confident the other person will certainly know who he is. Mr. Altman, several lawyers said, seems more sensitive to the need to show that he is person of standing.
Mr. Altman's 1984 marriage to Ms. Carter gave him a glittering social stature in Washington. The couple met in Nashville, where Ms. Carter was a spokeswoman for Maybelline cosmetics. They were married in Bel Air, Calif., in 1984 in a ceremony that Mr. Altman boasted brought together the glitz of Hollywood and the importance of Washington.
Mr. Clifford was the best man. Aga Hassan Abedi, the founder of B.C.C.I., was a guest and offered to give Ms. Carter a car of her choice as a gift. She chose a black Jaguar, she recently told People magazine.
 
Tennis and a Waterfall
 In recent years, the Altmans have been Olympic-class socializers in the capital, often entertaining at their huge suburban home that is typically referred to in newspapers here as a 16-bathroom residence. The house also has lighted tennis courts, an artificial waterfall and what one regular guest called "a Hollywood grandiosity but a nice lived-in feeling."
Ms. Carter counts among her friends Mary (Honey) Skinner, the wife of the Transportation Secretary, Samuel K. Skinner, and Dorothy Bush LeBlond, President Bush's daughter. She has been active in the kinds of charity drives that thrive on celebrity associations.
But Mr. Altman's legal difficulties have put strains on some relationships. When The Wall Street Journal called Michael J. Boskin, the chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, to ask about his friendship with the Altmans and a recent ski trip to Aspen, Colo., a Boskin spokesman emphasized that the Altmans and Boskins had "skiied on separate mountains."
 
Victims of Deceit?
 As the legal drama is played out, lawyers, bankers and friends of both men are waiting to see how Mr. Clifford and Mr. Altman will treat each other. So far, they have a common set of lawyers and a common line of defense: they were both deceived by Aga Hassan Abedi, the founder of B.C.C.I.
"I have a choice of seeming either venal or stupid," Mr. Clifford told The New York Times this year. Mr. Altman has declined to be interviewed, but through lawyers has similarly insisted he was taken in by Mr. Abedi.
Many of Mr. Clifford's friends yearn to believe in a sequence of events in which he was led astray in his twilight years by a younger and more hustling colleague. To many people watching for any indication that the common front will crack, such a split would be unthinkable. Over the years, Mr. Clifford, who has three daughters, has often called Mr. Altman the "son he never had." Mr. Altman named his first child Clark.
Prosecutors, who acknowledge that Mr. Altman is a more palatable target than Mr. Clifford, note an area in which Mr. Altman was more actively involved with B.C.C.I. One thing that made investigators skeptical about Mr. Clifford's and Mr. Altman's professed ignorance of the B.C.C.I. role in running First American was the fact that the two had said they used B.C.C.I. as a liaison with First American shareholders. Mr. Clifford said it was a matter of convenience, since the shareholders were spread throughout the Middle East and Mr. Abedi saw them often.
But records show, in the words of one investigator, that 90 percent of the telephone calls and visits to B.C.C.I. officials were made by Mr. Altman. According to a report by the Federal Reserve, B.C.C.I. officials did not act as a liaison but appeared to control the decisions at First American on things like hiring.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 1991, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Tuesday about the friendship between Clark M. Clifford and Robert A. Altman referred incorrectly to Mr. Altman's son. He is James Clifford Altman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clark M. Clifford, left, the former Secretary of Defense and adviser to Democratic Presidents, and Robert A. Altman, with his wife, the acress Lynda Carter. Mr. Clifford is shown last month as he announced his resignation as chairman of First American Bankshares; Mr. Altman, the junior law partner of Mr. Clifford who resigned as the bank's president, and Ms. Carter are seen at the Democratic National Convention in 1988. (Associated Press; Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS812210 FUNERAL HOMES & FUNERAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES; BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL BROOKE CORP (91%); FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES INC (91%); BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES; BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PANAMA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MONEY LAUNDERING; ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (72%); ETHICS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); VIETNAM WAR (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); AUDITS (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A; CLIFFORD, CLARK M; ALTMAN, ROBERT A JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1991



84 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Chemical Waste's Regulatory Woes

BYLINE: By John Holusha

 BODY:
LIVE by regulations, die by regulations. That may be the underlying story at Chemical Waste Management Inc., which has been trading at about a point higher than its 52-week low of $16.75 in the last few weeks, although some analysts see a recovery in the long term.
Like much of the environmental industry, the company is a creature of laws and regulations enacted to protect the environment. It takes industrial byproducts and materials classified as hazardous and either incinerates them or treats them and buries them in landfills. 
 The company, based in Oak Brook, Ill., is 76 percent owned by Waste Management Inc., the nation's largest waste-disposal company. However, its narrow focus makes it a pure play in the hazardous-waste field.
As regulations like those prohibiting the disposal of liquids in the ground have tightened, Chemical Waste Management's business has grown. Revenues more than tripled from 1985 to 1990, to $1.147 billion. Earnings advanced even more sharply in that time, from $26 million to $176 million.
But lately, the picture has not been so bright. Because of the recession, industries are producing less, and that means less waste to be treated. Earnings in the second quarter declined 28 percent, to $31.4 million, from $43.1 million in the 1990 quarter.
"Chemical Waste Management has proven to be more sensitive to recession than was previously thought," Value Line observed.
An explosion in February at the company's Chicago incinerator shut that operation for six months. It is only now beginning to return to operation.
Worse, the regulatory climate appears to have turned stormy for the company at the state level. Industrial wastes are produced in most states, but there are only about 20 commercial hazardous-waste landfills available for their disposal, so wastes are shipped across state lines.
Imported waste has become a political issue in many areas, with importer states trying to limit the amount they will accept. Hazardous waste is even less politically popular than garbage, so opposition to its disposal has been intense. Although outright bans have been ruled illegal, several other restrictions have been adopted by states, but have yet to be fully tested legally.
The company's largest hazardous-waste landfill is in Emelle, Ala. Earlier this year, the State Legislature adopted a two-tier tax system, charging $40 a ton to dispose of waste generated inside the state, but subjecting out-of-state waste to a $112-a-ton tax. Other states, including Louisiana and New York, also enacted restrictions, although they were considered less onerous.
A lower state court ruled the Alabama differential tax illegal, but on July 11 the State Supreme Court upheld it. The court said that imports of hazardous waste endangered the health and safety of citizens, which made trafficking in it different from ordinary commerce, which has constitutional protection. The company said it would appeal the ruling to the United States Supreme Court, but has not yet filed.
Analysts said the tax, which is ultimately paid by Chemical Waste Management's customers, put the company at a competitive disadvantage. And they said the State Supreme Court's unexpected ruling made investors wary, because it made the company appear vulnerable to factors beyond management's control.
"The tax in Alabama has cost them market share," said Sano Shimoda, an analyst with Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "They are charging customers $112 a ton, while operators in other states are facing taxes of $10 to $30 a ton." He estimated that the volume of waste disposed at Emelle had declined by 50 percent from last year.
The Alabama ruling knocked Chemical Waste Management's stock price from the low 20's to the high teens, where it has stayed. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, the shares lost 37.5 cents each, closing at $17.625.
But some analysts note that the company has six other landfills besides Emelle and that nothing improves the prospects for a company's stock like an economic upturn. They added that the company's business in cleaning up polluted industrial sites, which is to some extent based on discretionary spending by customers, declined with the waste-disposal business during the recession. If the economy improves, the pace of cleanups is likely to quicken as the volume of industrial waste grows.
"If the economy turns in the second half, as we expect, given Chemical Waste Management's strategic position, there is plenty of growth left," said Marc H. Sulam, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody. "We look upon the company as a long-term buy. This could easily be a $25 stock in a year to 18 months."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (94%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (71%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (71%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (71%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (71%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT INC CHEMICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (94%); WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); APPEALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



85 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in Quiet Trading Despite Economic Reports

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened yesterday in quiet post-holiday trading. Dealers seemed to shrug off the latest data indicating continued economic growth during the summer.
Gold prices were mixed after rising overseas. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $348.30 an ounce, up 20 cents from late Friday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $347.90 an ounce, off 10 cents from Friday. 
 Currency traders said reports yesterday showing growth in manufacturing during August and in construction spending during July failed to raise demand for the dollar.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of business activity rose last month by a greater-than-expected amount. In another report, the Commerce Department said construction spending rose 1.6 percent in July.
 
Normally Bullish Reports
 Earl I. Johnson, a vice president for Harris Trust & Company in Chicago, said both reports would normally be bullish for the dollar because they would reduce the pressure on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates, which can depress the dollar's value.
But he said, "I think a lot of people are still skeptical about the underlying strength in the economy and want to see the unemployment data."
The Labor Department is expected to release its August jobless figures on Friday.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 136.40 yen, down 0.44 yen from Monday. The dollar traded later in London at 136 yen, and at 135.80 yen in New York, down from 136.83 Friday. Financial markets in the United States were closed Monday for the Labor Day holiday.
The dollar was weaker against the British pound. Sterling rose to $1.6920, from $1.6847 late Monday in London. In New York, it fetched $1.6950, up from $1.6810 Friday.
 
Other Dollar Quotes
 Other late dollar quotes in New York, compared with Friday's late prices, included: 1.7365 German marks, down from 1.7470; 1.5225 Swiss francs, down from 1.5264; 5.9005 French francs, down from 5.9325; 1,295.75 Italian lire, down from 1,302.75, and 1.14145 Canadian dollars, down from 1.14175.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Monday, included: 1.7395 German marks, down from 1.7450; 1.5260 Swiss francs, up from 1.5220; 5.9110 French francs, down from 5.9275; 1.9600 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9655; 1,298.50 Italian lire, down from 1,301.25, and 1.1405 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1406.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $348.25 an ounce, from $347.80 Monday. In Zurich, gold rose to $348.30 an ounce from $348.
Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $1.63 an ounce to close at $350.36.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); GERMAN MARK (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



86 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Yields Drop On C.D.'s and Bank Funds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts fell in the week ended yesterday.
The Bank Rate Monitor, a publication based in North Palm Beach, Fla., that focuses on interest rates, said declining C.D. yields had nearly caught up with the last reduction in interest rates by the Federal Reserve Bank, but added that they might soon be caught in another round of reductions by the central bank. 
 Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor, said another reduction in market rates and possibly one in the prime lending rate could come at any time. "Bank cost of funds, or the cost of borrowing by the bank, have declined more than half a point since the last prime rate cut in May," he said. "And the last time it dropped by that much, banks cut rates."
Analysts noted a sharper decline in six-month C.D. yields this week, particulary in banks outside the New York market.
At the Treasury Department's weekly bill auction yesterday, the average discount rate for both the three-month and six-month bills was off modestly after rising sharply the week before. The three-month bill at auction fell 6 basis points, to 5.34 percent, while the six-month bill fell 8 basis points, to 5.39 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The largest yield changes in New York area banks this week were at Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, which made this list for the second consecutive week. The bank dropped its money market account by 27 basis points, to 4.86 percent.
First Nationwide was another savings bank that cut its yields significantly, when it reduced the yield on its three-month certificate by 25 basis points, to 5.25, and dropped its six-month yield by 20 basis points, to 5.70 percent.
Among the commercial banks, the average yield of money market accounts and six-month certificates, fell 2 basis points, to 4.88 percent and 5.32 percent, respectively. Three-month certificates held firm at 5.16 percent.
For depositors at savings institutions, yield cuts touched all the short- maturity C.D.'s and money market accounts. Money market accounts slipped a basis point, to 5.42 percent, while three-month certificates fell 2 basis points, to 5.59 percent. The six-month certificate came down 3 basis points, to 5.83 percent.
By comparison, 20 large banks outside the New York market cut their money market yield by an average 1 basis point, to 5.12 percent, and average six-month certificate by 3 basis points, to 5.38 percent.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, September 4, 1991. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 	New York Area	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	Banco Popular De P.R.	4.86	5.34	5.39	Bank of N.Y.	4.86	5.34	5.39	Bank of Tokyo Trust	4.93	4.70	4.85	Chase Manhattan	4.81	5.34	5.39	Chemical	4.86	4.63	4.68	Citibank	4.60	4.90	5.15	Conn. Bank & Trust	4.75	5.32	5.37	Conn. Nat'l Bank	5.12	5.39	5.49	EAB	4.86	5.23	5.29	First Fidelity (N.J.)	4.85	5.20	5.50	Manufacturers Hanover	4.86	5.34	5.39	Marine Midland	4.85	5.02	5.34	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	5.02	5.40	5.75	Nat'l Westminster	4.86	4.81	5.39	Republic Nat'l	5.18	5.39	5.50	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	American Savings	5.50	5.65	5.85	Anchor Savings	5.39	5.65	5.95	Apple Bank Savings	5.43	5.55	5.81	Astoria Federal	5.64	5.75	5.75	Bowery Savings	5.35	5.50	5.80	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	5.38	5.75	6.05	Crossland Savings	5.60	5.65	6.00	Dime Savings Bank	5.40	5.40	5.75	Dollar Dry Dock	5.50	5.65	5.87	Emigrant Savings	5.30	5.55	5.55	First Nationwide	5.25	5.25	5.70	Green Point Savings	5.60	N.O.	5.85	Howard Savings (N.J.)	5.50	5.70	6.00	Hudson City Bk (N.J.)	5.39	5.75	6.00	People's Bank (Conn.)	5.01	5.39	5.55	
 	 	 	 	 	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.		Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Security Pacific (L.A.)	5.22	0.00	5.25	0.10	First National (Chicago)	4.91	0.00	5.44	0.05	Bank of Boston	5.27	0.00	5.20	0.10	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	5.13	0.00	5.30	+0.05	First Interstate (L.A.)	5.11	0.05	5.23	0.10	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	5.00	0.00	5.20	0.00	NBD Bank (Detroit)	5.10	0.00	5.15	0.00	Union Bank (S.F.)	5.22	0.00	5.44	0.00	Fleet Bank of Mass.	5.12	0.00	5.20	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	5.00	0.00	5.20	0.00	Southeast Miami	5.44	0.04	5.40	0.05	First Bank (Minnesota)	4.85	0.00	5.30	0.00	Meridian (Reading, Pa.)	4.90	0.00	5.50	0.00	Sovran (Richmond, Va.)	4.85	0.00	5.65	0.05	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	5.35	0.00	5.30	0.10	C & S (Atlanta)	5.23	0.00	5.52	0.05	Citibank, S.D.	5.38	0.10	6.00	0.00	Texas Commerce (Houston)	5.11	0.00	5.22	0.00	NCNB Tampa	5.00	0.00	5.25	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	5.13	0.00	5.85	0.00	

N.A. Rate not available N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)
Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: POP (FRA) (90%); POP (BM) (90%); BPES (PAR) (90%); BPE (LSE) (90%); BPE (LIS) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BANCO POPULAR DE PUERTO RICO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BONDS (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUCTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



87 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Israel Request Raises Issue of Settlements

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Israeli officials said today that they planned to request $10 billion in housing loan guarantees from the Bush Administration later this week, a move that could force the Administration to choose between its desire to get the Israelis to attend peace talks and President Bush's longstanding desire to tie any extra aid to a freeze on Israeli settlements in the occupied territories.
President Bush is said by aides to feel very strongly about the fact that, although the Israeli Foreign Minister, David Levy, signed a letter last Oct. 1 promising Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d that previous housing guarantees of $400 million would not be used to build new settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza strip, Israeli settlement activity there increased, financed by Israeli money instead. 
 The President, aides say, is convinced that Israel simply does not take him seriously on this issue and insists that Washington get firm commitments from Israel to freeze settlement activity in exchange for the $10 billion housing guarantee -- which would be in addition to the $3 billion in economic and military aid extended to Israel already this year. The new guarantees would be used to build housing, roads, hospitals, schools and services to help Israel absorb up to a million Soviet emigres, roughly 345,000 of whom have already arrived.
 
Obstacles to Peace Talks
 State Department and other officials, while identifying with the President's feelings on settlements, do not want him to get embroiled in a nasty political fight on this issue with the Government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, when Israel's cooperation is needed for the proposed Middle East peace conference.
These officials argue that the best way to freeze settlements would be in the context of a peace conference, and that to fight over the issue now would only give Israeli hardliners an excuse to back out of the conference on the grounds that the United States was taking sides on an issue that should be worked out at the bargaining table.
Senior officials said Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker discussed the issue in the Oval Office today. Israel's Ambassador to Washington, Zalman Shoval, is expected to present his formal request to Mr. Baker on Thursday or Friday. For now, the Administration has apparently decided to try to persuade Israel, and its Congressional backers, to defer the request until the peace conference, which would begin in October. The Israelis are not inclined to do that, but it is not clear where their Congressional backers stand.
 
Nationwide Lobby
 The American-Israel Public Affairs Committee, the so-called Israel lobby, has spent the last few months lining up support for the housing guarantees. It wants to see them included in this year's foreign aid bill, which is being drawn up at the end of September, so they are not delayed another year.
Jewish groups are mobilizing mass backing for the loan guarantees, including a plan to distribute information on how and why the guarantees should be supported, in synagogues around the country during the Jewish New Year holiday.
 The United States will not actually be lending the money to Israel, only guaranteeing that Israel will repay the money. This will allow Israel to go to Wall Street and borrow from commercial banks. With the guarantees, Israel will be able to get 30-year loans instead of the seven-year loans that it would be able to obtain on its own credit rating.
The cost to the United States depends on what percentage of the loan amounts the Administration has to set aside -- by law -- as a reserve. This one-time charge, set by the Office of Management and Budget in negotiation with the State Department, could be as low as $50 million or as high as $1.9 billion.
With the presidential election campaign about to begin, the guarantees could become a political issue as some Democrats press to increase spending on domestic problems.
Mr. Baker is widely expected to make a trip to the Soviet Union and the Middle East in mid-September to try to finalize the peace conference, which still is by no means a certainty. The Administration is still waiting for the Palestinians and Jordanians to come up with a list of Palestinian negotiators who would be acceptable to Israel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOUSING PEACE PROCESS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



88 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
R. R. Donnelley Picks New Division Officers

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, the Chicago-based printing concern, announced top management changes yesterday for its magazine and telecommunications divisions.
John S. Oberhill, 49 years old, president of the magazine group, will become president of the telecommunications group on Oct. 1. He will succeed Ronald K. Vickrey, 55, who is retiring. 
 Edward E. Lane, 39, will succeed Mr. Oberhill as director of the magazine group. Mr. Lane was formerly vice president and director of the magazine division in Danville, Ky.
Mr. Oberhill, known as Jack, had previously worked five years in the telecommunications group, which accounted for 17 percent of the company's revenues last year. Its main services include printing telephone books and computer manuals. He said it was too early to predict whether he would make strategic changes to the group, which has reported steady sales growth in recent years.
R. R. Donnelley, the world's largest printing company, with 31,000 employees worldwide, reported a 1990 net income of $225.8 million from sales of $3.5 billion, which was 12 percent over 1989. For that year, it reported a net income of $222 million on sales of $3.1 billion.
The magazine group, which represents about 18 percent of the company's overall business, has reported steady sales increases in recent years, Mr. Oberhill said. Among the magazines it prints are TV Guide, Modern Maturity and Family Circle.
"We've suffered with the magazine industry as a whole, but our market share has grown," he said.
Mr. Oberhill joined R. R. Donnelley in 1966 as an engineer in its Chicago division. He was promoted to president of the magazine group in 1988 from senior vice president and director of manufacturing for the magazine group.
He attended the United States Military Academy and received a bachelor's degree in economics and mathematics from New York University. He and his wife, Pat, have five children.
After joining R. R. Donnelley in 1976 as a sales representative, Mr. Lane became a vice president and regional sales manager in 1984, a senior vice president and sales division director in 1988 and division director in Danville in 1990.
He has received a bachelor's degree in English from Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., and a master's degree in business administration from Cornell University. He and his wife, Jeanne, have two children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (98%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (98%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (98%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DONNELLEY, R R, & SONS CO R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (98%); MAGAZINE GROUP INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DONNELLEY, R R, & SONS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); BOOK PRINTING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); MARKET SHARE (70%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; OBERHILL, JOHN S; VICKREY, RONALD K; LANE, EDWARD E ANN LIVERMORE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



89 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
The Day's Highlights

 BODY:

A Crucial Vote Nears
 Gorbachev and Yeltsin in a Tense Tandem: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, togeter urged a national congress to adopt a new governing structure ceding greater powers to the republics. A vote is expected today. In a speech, Mr. Yeltsin paid Mr. Gorbachev a back-handed compliment by saying the Soviet President had emerged from last month's coup "a different man" who could now be trusted as a reformer. Page A1.
 
A Way of Life Gone: In the Congress of People's Deputies, among the fallen statues and in the streets, there seems to be a growing realization in Moscow, even among those who exulted over the end of Communism, that an entire way of life is passing with it. Page A13.
 Views of an Apparatchik: Nikolai S. Portugalov, a member of the Soviet Communist Party for 40 of his 63 years, says: "I never thought I'd be out on the street and accused of being a member of a criminal organization. But I'm not shedding any tears for the party." Page A13.
 
Changes Across a Vast Land
 Baltics Move to Join the U.N.: Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia applied to join the United Nations, and diplomats said they might be admitted this month. Lithuania's new 31-year-old Defense Minister, a psychotherapist in his former life, is pondering how to insure security. Page A12.
 Bartering for Survival: Leningrad may be a harbinger of improvisational economic relationships within the Soviet Union. City officials have been roaming the country making barter deals for food and raw materials. But the city's residents are worried. "Anything is possible," said one woman. "We could go hungry this winter." Page A16.
 Changing Stripes in Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan's formerly Communist political machine has declared the republic independent, and even the cynics, who are plentiful, are admiring the audacious showmanship of a leadership performing for its political life. Page A16.
 
As the West Watches
 Motives Behind TV Appearances: As ABC and CNN aggressively woo Gorbachev and Yeltsin, the two leaders evidently find American television useful in helping them stabilize their leadership. Page A17.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ESTONIA (78%); LATVIA (74%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS AZERBAIJAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ESTONIA (78%); LATVIA (74%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



90 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Cars Stronger In Weak U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
Japan's auto companies are emerging from the recession in the United States with a far bigger slice of that market than they had two years ago, but the political problems from their success in the United States have persisted.
In the first six months of this year, Japanese companies supplied just less than 30 percent of all the passenger cars sold in the United States -- an increase of more than four percentage points in market share since 1989. 
 In recent interviews, top executives of Japanese auto makers attributed their gains to their quick success in marketing new lines of luxury cars like the Acura by Honda and the Lexus by Toyota. They also said their willingness to invest in new factories and research and development, even as their profits were badly hurt during the recession, had led to continual improvements in many of their cars. Many analysts agree.
American auto executives, meanwhile, point more to what they say are new and more subtle forms of unfair trade practices by the Japanese.
To be sure, the Japanese auto makers have not been immune to the downturn in the United States, but they have suffered far less, in terms of declining profits and sales, than their American competitors.
The contrast between the conditions of the American and Japanese auto industries is striking. While Detroit, reeling from billions of dollars in losses, sheds thousands of workers and closes plants, some Japanese auto companies complain of a shortage of workers. Just the other day, for example, Toyota said it would begin to rehire its Japanese retirees.
But for the Japanese, crossing the 30 percent barrier in the United States brings a host of political problems. Among them: increased pressure to assure that American auto makers fare better in Japan and that the Japanese sharply raise their use of American auto parts.
To their surprise, the Japanese companies are discovering that few of those problems have eased because Japan now produces a significant percentage of its cars in the United States, with American workers.
"We still have to become far more Americanized," Shoichiro Irimajiri, a top executive at the Honda Motor Company, said in a recent interview. "It took 80 years for Ford and G.M. to be considered domestic producers in Europe. And it might take us that long." Mr. Irimajiri was the architect of Honda's manufacturing strategy in the United States.
Nearly all of the Japanese manufacturers' market-share gain in the United States came from Japanese-owned factories in North America.
These so-called transplant factories of Toyota, Honda, Nissan and others are not subject to the "voluntary" export restraints on which Detroit has relied in the last decade to suppress Japanese competition.
 
Similar Plans for Europe
 As a result, actual exports of Japanese cars to the United States have fallen precipitously in recent months. In fact, this strategy of basing plants where the sales are is seen as so successful that Japan is planning to add capacity for at least a million cars a year in Europe, its next big target.
The success of the transplants has not dispelled new American complaints about the huge contribution that autos and auto parts make to the American trade deficit with Japan -- upward of 70 percent of the deficit. Partnerships between Japanese concerns and each of the Big Three auto companies did not prevent Detroit from filing charges several months ago that their Japanese competitors were "dumping" vehicles, especially mini-vans. Dumping is selling goods at below fair-market value to drive out competitors.
And for the last three months, American officials, led by Vice President Dan Quayle during a recent visit to Tokyo, have hammered at a long-standing sore point: the continuing failure of American car makers to do more than dent Japan's own auto market, the world's second-largest national market after the United States.
American auto makers have long contended that the Japanese market is rigged against them because of the expense and difficulties of establishing dealerships. But it is a complaint for which Japanese executives have no patience; they say the success of Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen and BMW in Japan is evidence that American car makers are simply not trying hard enough.
"No one else is going to help them while they are sitting on their hands," Yutaka Kume, the president of the Nissan Motor Company, said in an interview recently.
Mr. Quayle, he added, "is wrong about the market being closed." No American auto manufacturer has designed a car specifically for the Japanese market, he said, and none builds vehicles here.
 
Recession Strategies Differ
 In interviews over the last several weeks, the top executives of several of Japan's auto companies have expressed little surprise that their competitive position has improved so much in the United States. Detroit auto makers, they said, were unprepared to deal with the recession.
"There is still a basic, fundamental difference between Japanese and U.S. manufacturers in a time of downturn," said Mr. Irimajiri, who spent most of the 1980's at Honda's assembly plant in Marysville, Ohio. "The Japanese bring out new models and try to revitalize their lines. They use a recession to rebuild their capacity. The Big Three tend to delay introductions or cut the budget to develop new models. They tend to wait."
The Japanese say they are not yet certain they will be able to maintain their 30 percent share of the market -- a level they briefly reached during the fuel crisis of the mid-70's -- when the economic recovery picks up steam. With gasoline prices low, Americans may turn again to bigger cars, meaning that Detroit should benefit more than Tokyo.
In fact, Honda's strategy for the next year -- offering a new, redesigned engine in the Civic, its low-end compact -- may improve fuel efficiency more than profitability. The car gets more than 50 miles a gallon on the highway.
 
Beachhead in Luxury Market
 But what has helped the Japanese the most, analysts said, is that they have finally won an important share of the market for large and luxurious cars, and they did so at a pace that few anticipated in the late 1980's. Those cars are still all made in Japan -- one reason that the deficit in automobile trade seems to stay high even though the number of cars shipped from Japan has declined.
The earliest of these luxury brands, Honda's Acura, remains extraordinarily successful. Sales of the Toyota Motor Corporation's Lexus have also remained strong.
Even Nissan's Infiniti -- a car that got off to a halting start in the United States with its Zen-inspired commercials that featured rocks rather than cars, leaving customers befuddled -- is starting to pick up.
Other Japanese car makers are jumping in: the Mazda Motor Corporation just announced a new luxury car division, and the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation recently introduced a luxury model, the Diamante.
Nissan is perhaps the best example of how quickly the Japanese car makers are bouncing back from their recession lows. In July, it posted a 24 percent increase in sales in the United States, compared with July 1990. Nissan has overhauled its product line on both continents, and it has enjoyed particular success in Japan with a series of specialty cars, many in a style that harkens back to the 1950's.
Still, each of the Japanese car makers is facing growing pains. Production is stagnant this year in Japan, though Toyota has seen its passenger car production drop 5 percent.
Honda, always more popular in America than in its home country, is losing market share in Japan, prompting an organizational shake-up that the company said was long overdue. "We became too big," Mr. Irimajiri said. "We had success for 10 or 15 years straight, but we expanded too rapidly. We need to regain our old speed." The company has recently introduced a tiny convertible, called the Beat, that has begun to revitalize its sales in Japan.
The unknown for all of the Japanese makers is Europe. No sooner had Japan and the European Community reached an agreement a few weeks ago on limiting Japan's presence there -- much like the "voluntary restraint" agreement in the United States -- than they began to bicker openly about what the agreement meant. The big issue is whether, as Japan says, the agreement puts no limit on the number of cars it can make in Europe, cars that would be considered "European" in origin.
Japan produces a little more than 200,000 cars a year in Europe -- mostly in Britain -- and it plans to increase that number to a million or more.
One reason the Japanese are so vociferous on the issue is that they fear any limit on transplants could inspire the United States to do the same. Already, there has been some movement in the United States to begin treating "transplant" cars as Japanese, not American. The Bush Administration has opposed those moves, saying they would chill investment in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese auto makers gained market share in the United States in the recession, mostly from sales of vehicles made at Japanese-owned transplant factories like Honda's plant in Marysville, Ohio. (Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times) (pg. A1)
 
Graphs: "Cars' Role in Deficit" shows U.S. trade deficit with Japan and the percentage from cars and car parts from '86 to '91 (Source: Commerce Department); "Strong U.S. Sales" shows total cars sold in the U.S. and Japan's share from '89 to '91 (Source: Fast Track News) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



91 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Dow Plummets 25.93 to Finish at 3,017.67

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Stock prices fell yesterday amid persistent concerns about the pace of the nation's economic recovery and the impact of computerized trading.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 25.93 points, to 3,017.67, the lowest reading since news of the failure of the coup in the Soviet Union sent stocks soaring two weeks ago. 
 The Nasdaq composite index was down 4.77 points, to 520.91, a drop of nearly 1 percent. The American Stock Exchange's composite index was off 0.61, to 371.52. The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 3.28, to 392.15. And the New York Stock Exchange's index was down 1.56, to 215.13.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said computer-driven selling accounted for 15.22 points of the Dow's decline.
Declining issues outpaced advancing stocks by a margin of about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 955 issues declining and 613 gaining. Trading increased to 153.7 million shares, from 143.4 million on Friday -- the last trading session before Labor Day.
The Dow climbed in the first hour, after a report by the nation's purchasing managers indicated that the manufacturing economy expanded in August. But a sell program after 11 A.M. took the Dow down sharply. After holding steady for much of the afternoon, a series of three more computerized sell programs sent the Dow plunging another 25 points after 2:45.
"The decline cannot be attributed to any one thing in particular," said Alan Titunick, president of Davis, Dinsmore Associates. "The bond market has been keeping the stock market up, and a lot of people have had high expectations."
Mr. Titunick added that expectations that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates had helped push stock prices upward. "But perhaps people anticipate that that won't happen any time soon," he said.
Walt Disney was a big loser on the Big Board, with the largest drop among the Dow issues. The stock, which fell 2, to 116 3/4, has been hurt in recent weeks by analysts' estimates of lower earnings. Eastman Kodak closed at 41 1/2, down 1 5/8. It has been hurt because of job cuts and its plans to take a charge in the third quarter. International Paper was down 1 3/8, to 68 1/4, and DuPont was off 1, to 47 1/4. Those four stocks contributed about 40 percent of the Dow's decline.
I.B.M. was among the big gainers in a day of declining issues, climbing 1 1/8, to 98. The company announced on Monday that it and the Westland Group had won an order from the British Navy to produce equipment for the next generation of anti-sumbarine helicopters.
On the New York Stock Exchange, the most active issue was Browning Ferris, a waste-management company. It stunned investors by announcing that it expected lower fourth-quarter and full-year profits. The stock was down 4, to 21 3/4, with 3.37 million shares changing hands.
The most active issue on the American Stock Exchange was Continental Airlines Holdings, which was up 3/8, to 2 1/8, with 925,200 shares changing hands. The company confirmed that it was holding talks with H. Ross Perot Jr. about a possible venture.
In over-the-counter trading, the most active issue was Xoma, a biotechnology company. The stock was down 2 1/2, to 20 1/2, with 4.5 million shares changing hands. The company's stock was affected by anticipation about the results of the Food and Drug Administration's tests of drugs for treating a deadly bacterial infection. The results were expected today.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



92 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Forstmann Little in Deal For a Share of Whittle

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Forstmann Little & Company has signed an initial agreement to invest $350 million for a one-third interest in Whittle Communications, the media company that was founded by Christopher Whittle.
The investment would reduce the stakes in Whittle now held by Time Warner Inc., Associated Newspapers of London, Mr. Whittle and 60 Whittle executives. 
 Forstmann Little, an investment firm that has historically specialized in leveraged buyouts while avoiding the junk bonds that characterized many of those deals in the 1980's, is expected to put up the $350 million in subordinated financing, convertible at a future date into a one-third equity stake.
One executive with knowledge of the talks said the conversion would be in three to five years. Theodore Forstmann, general partner in the firm, would not confirm that timetable.
 
Sharp Jump in Value
 The conversion would value Whittle Communications, based in Knoxville, Tenn., at $1.05 billion, a significant increase over the value that the former Time Inc. had put on Whittle in 1988, when it bought 50 percent of the company for $185 million.
Until the conversion takes place, valuing the company is tricky. Reginald K. Brack, chairman of Time Warner Publishing, said his company's initial investment had more than doubled. Analysts generally agreed that it appeared to be a very good deal for Time Warner.
The investment would give Whittle Communications financing at a relatively low cost; the interest is 6 percent. In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Whittle said that $220 million of the money would be used for existing projects and new businesses. He said the balance would go to existing partners. Time Warner would receive $65 million.
The current ownership of the company would be diluted, with Time Warner's stake dropping to 33.3 percent from 50 percent; Associated Newspapers' stake falling to 22 percent from 33 percent; Mr. Whittle's to 7.3 percent from 11 percent, and the 60 executives' stake falling to 4 percent from 6 percent.
Because Time Warner has been extremely optisimistic about Whittle's growth, some analysts attributed its willingness to take a reduced stake to its heavy debt load. Mr. Brack, however, rejected that idea, saying that a new investor would benefit both Whittle and Time Warner.
"We speed up growth, and we don't have to invest anything more in the interim," he said.
Mr. Whittle said he was willing to take a reduced stake in the company because he believed he would own a smaller piece of a larger pie.
Dennis Leibowitz, who follows the company for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said it appeared to be a very good deal for Time Warner. The company has already recouped $65 million of its $185 million investment and would still own a third of a company with a current value of about $800 million and a potential value of more than $1 billion.
 
Broadcasting Interests
 Since 1988 Whittle has cut back its special-interest magazines and added an advertiser-supported school television network and a television channel for doctors' offices and other medical centers. Mr. Whittle said that revenues for the year ended June 30, were $207 million, and they are expected to reach $300 million this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (56%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WHITTLE COMMUNICATIONS; FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO (96%); TIME WARNER INC (85%); TIME INC (69%); TIME WARNER PUBLISHING INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITTLE COMMUNICATIONS; FORSTMANN LITTLE & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); TENNESSEE, USA (56%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (56%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE THEODORE FORSTMANN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



93 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Increasing Oil Storage

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 3

 BODY:
With Soviet oil production falling precipitously, Saudi Arabia has significantly increased its stocks of oil in storage to around 60 million barrels and is signaling its determination to keep worldwide supplies plentiful and prices down.
A senior official in the Persian Gulf oil industry, in a telephone interview today, confirmed a published report that the Saudis have been storing oil at the impressive rate of 400,000 to 500,000 barrels a day since July. The report appeared in Petrostrategies, an oil newsletter published in Paris. The publication, which is close to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, noted that Saudi Arabia would be going to the Geneva meeting of OPEC oil ministers this month "with some 50 to 60 million barrels of onshore and offshore oil stocks."
 
On Land and at Sea
 Because Saudi Arabia has the oil stored both on land and in tankers at sea, the country is in an ideal position to replace immediately any supply shortfalls, particularly from the Soviet Union. Most other oil-producing nations are operating at capacity and do not have ample stored supplies. 
 The increased storage also underlines Saudi Arabia's often-stated intention of keeping world oil prices at their present low levels -- about $18.70 a barrel for OPEC oil -- to encourage consumption and discourage consumers from switching to other fuels. The Saudis are sending their message largely to the price hawks in OPEC -- Algeria, Iran and Libya. Those nations are expected to press for higher oil prices at the Geneva meeting scheduled for Sept. 24.
Oil industry officials said that another consideration behind the Saudi move was the widely shared expectation among oil experts that worldwide demand for oil would rise sharply in the fall and winter.
"The Saudis are quite happy with current prices and want to make sure that OPEC will be in a position to supply the market with all the oil that is needed in the fourth quarter this year and the first quarter next year," said Gary Ross, an executive of Petroleum Industry Research Associates in New York.
Oil experts expect the demand for OPEC oil in the next few months to rise to a level between 24.5 million barrels a day and 25 million. OPEC, of which Saudi Arabia is the largest producer, is now pumping about 23.6 million barrels a day. For most oil producers, including other OPEC members, it would be difficult to raise output without spending substantially on their infrastructures.
In the immediate future, Saudi Arabia wishes to preserve its dominance within OPEC, both by showing it can respond to additional demand and by keeping prices down.
The Saudi view, officials said, is that any increase in oil exports from Iraq and Kuwait would be offset this year, at least, by a fall in Soviet exports, leaving Saudi Arabia as the ultimate world supplier.
 
Slow Comeback for Kuwait
 Kuwaiti oil exports, which have resumed recently at the low rate of about 140,000 barrels a day, are expected by experts to rise slowly to 200,000 barrels a day over the next few months. Iraq is still subject to a ban on its oil exports imposed by the United Nations during the gulf crisis, but a relaxation of the ban is possible. The amount of exports allowed would, however, probably be kept low until Iraq adhered to all resolutions of the United Nations Security Council.
Soviet oil production, which exceeded 12 million barrels a day four years ago, has fallen to 10.5 million barrels a day this year and is expected by oil industry executives to tumble further, given the nation's deteriorating economic condition.
More important, Soviet exports of oil and refined products to both Western and Eastern Europe have fallen to an average of 2.60 million barrels a day this year from an estimated 4.11 million barrels a day in 1988, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a Boston-based oil consulting firm.
 
The Soviet 'Wild Card'
 An Arab involved in the gulf oil industry, who asked not to be identified, said: "In the next four or five years, the wild card in the world oil industry is going to be the Soviet Union. If, in addition to that, you have another accident like the gulf crisis, prices could shoot up, which is just what Saudi Arabia wants to guard against."
At the September OPEC meeting, Iran and Algeria are expected to push for keeping OPEC output low so that prices could rise closer to an average of $21 a barrel, a target price that OPEC adopted some years ago but has not been able to maintain, partly because of expanding Saudi production. Now, it seems that Saudi Arabia wants to keep the price at current levels by using its stored oil as a backup supply.
The advantage of storing oil on tankers at sea is that it can be offered for sale instantly and be placed close to strategic markets.
Since the beginning of the gulf crisis in August of last year, Saudi Arabia has substantially increased its exports of oil, from five million barrels a day to more than eight million, and has repeatedly indicated its unwillingness to cut back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (72%); UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; SAUDI ARABIA SAUDI ARABIA (99%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (72%); UNITED STATES (52%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES; STOCKPILING OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



94 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Spending on Construction Rose 1.6% in July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Residential and Government spending helped raise the value of new construction 1.6 percent in July, the Commerce Department said in a report released today. Analysts said the findings showed that the building industry was continuing to make a spotty recovery from the recession.
"But the real strength continues to be outside the commercial and non-residential sectors in general," said Daryl Delano, an analyst at Cahners Economics in Newton, Mass. 
 Over all, residential, nonresidential and Government spending totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $404.9 billion, up from $398.7 billion in June, the report said. But the total value of new construction in July was 10.6 percent below that of July 1990.
Spending in June actually fell one-tenth of 1 percent rather than the three-tenths of 1 percent gain that was initially estimated a month ago. That adjustment made the July increase the first since a 1.0 percent advance in April. In May, spending declined 1.7 percent, to $399 billion.
Residential spending rose 2.2 percent, to $161.9 billion, its third consecutive monthly rise. But the gain was entirely in single-family housing, which jumped 5.1 percent, to $96.7 billion, also the third straight increase.
Spending on apartment projects continued to slide, for the seventh straight month. This sector, which has been slowed by overbuilding and the stricter lending standards, was down 6.8 percent, to $13.8 billion.
Nonresidential spending rose eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $95.2 billion, after falling for two months. But the rise was largely centered in industrial projects, which rose 4.7 percent, their second consecutive gain.
Mr. Delano said hotel spending was off 51 percent from July 1990. Spending on other commercial projects, like shopping centers, fell 32 percent.
Despite budget constraints, Government spending rose 1.9 percent, to $109.9 billion, after a two-tenths of 1 percent loss in June. Educational construction rose 2.2 percent, to $23.2 billion; spending on roads slipped 3.5 percent, to $27.5 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" shows total construction spending from 2/90 to 7/91 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (93%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAILERS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



95 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
When Children Have Children

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows that teen-age pregnancy is the curse of the underclass -- that children who have children doom themselves to a life of poverty and dependence. But everyone, it seems, could be wrong.
A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper published this summer by Arline Geronimus, a researcher at the University of Michigan, and Sanders Korenman, a Princeton economist, offers striking evidence that early motherhood does not much affect women's future earnings or increase the probability they will end up on welfare. 
 No reasonable interpretation of the results, however, will provide comfort to the more-the-merrier, birth-control-is-genocide crowd. The fact that poor women lose little by giving birth as teen-agers, Mr. Korenman argues, says only that poor women have little to lose.
Study after study has shown that girls who have babies end up poorer and less educated than other women. And the experience of the women in the broad sample used by Ms. Geronimus and Mr. Korenman is no different. Among women followed for two decades by the Center for Human Resource Research at Ohio State University, those who became mothers as teen-agers were four times as likely to end up on welfare and three times as likely to become dropouts as those who waited to have babies.
But correlation is not causation: The fact that people with heart disease average more sleep than healthy adults does not mean that sleep damages the heart. And as one might expect, studies that have been controlled for family background -- parents' income, race, education and occupational status -- suggest that early pregnancy is just one of several factors determining the economic future of young women.
Ms. Geronimus and Mr. Korenman suspected, however, that these standard background variables did not capture all the relevant differences between families. So they limited their own statistical analysis to a sub-sample of 51 families in which at least one sister had a baby before age 20 and at least one did not.
They discovered that teen-age motherhood lost most of its dismal predictive value: Early parenthood in itself apparently did not make it more likely that the women would end their schooling before high school graduation or become dependent on welfare.
What is one to make of this remarkable finding? The casual interpretation is that teen-age pregnancy is no big deal -- and thus that denying teen-agers easy access to birth control information and abortion would have no great social or economic consequence.
And apparently inadvertently, Ms. Geronimus has given her critics reason to believe this is her own reading of the evidence. In earlier scholarly articles she argued that contrary to the conventional wisdom poor women were more apt to deliver healthy babies when they were teen-agers -- before their capacity for successful reproduction was damaged by drugs and hard living. She has also speculated that poor teen-age mothers, in contrast to older impoverished mothers, are better able to draw on extended families for support of the young.
But a simpler and more defensible interpretation of this study's result is that 1990's-style poverty is apt to ruin the lives of young women, whether or not they give birth as teen-agers. The fact that so many poor girls choose to have the babies may follow from their sense that they have nothing better to look forward to. Or as Ms. Geronomus put it, "Teen-age fertility among the poor may well be an adaptive response to social reality."
This does not imply that teen-age motherhood is any less of a catastrophe: Something is deeply wrong, it is safe to assume, when 15-year-old girls would rather change diapers than get on with the adventure of growing up. Nor does it get politicians and school administrators off the hook on abortion and contraception. Girls who are motivated to break out of poverty may still lack the means to make it without help in remaining childless.
What the findings may do, however, is make it less respectable to dismiss poverty as the consequence of sin. The very idea of an underclass is an embarrassment to a nation that takes great pride in social mobility. Thus for many Americans, the only plausible explanation for chronic poverty in a land of opportunity is moral deficiency.
Few of the liberal social scientists who have been sounding the alarm about teen-age parenthood in the last decade would classify themselves as moralists. But the idea that poverty is a consequence of casual, early sex does mesh neatly with the view that bad things mostly happen to bad people. And while the Geronimus-Korenman research is not likely to cause a sea change in attitudes, it might slow the gradual but unmistakable erosion of public sympathy for the victims of poverty.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TEENAGERS; WOMEN; WELFARE (US); LABOR ; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); TRENDS (77%); WOMEN (77%); DAMAGES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); ABORTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); HEART DISEASE (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; GERONIMUS, ARLINE; KORENMAN, SANDERS

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



96 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Lumber Tax To Be Ended By Canada

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Canada told the United States today that it would cancel a tax on lumber exports, a move that could reignite a longstanding political battle over lumber trade and complicate negotiations for a continental free-trade area that would also include Mexico.
The tax had been imposed in 1986 in response to American complaints that Canada was subsidizing its lumber industry. The decision to remove it brought an immediate protest from the United States. 
 The Office of the United States Trade Representative said in a statement that it regretted Canada's action and would be "considering all options, including imposition of a U.S. import tax, if appropriate, to offset any existing subsidies."
 
Imposed Since 1986
 Canada signed a memorandum of understanding with the United States on Dec. 31, 1986, to impose a 15 percent tax on southbound exports of softwood lumber. If it had not done so, a permanent tax would have been imposed on these shipments the next day by the United States.
The Reagan administration had sought the tax, even though it raised prices for the American construction industry, because it said Government subsidies were allowing Canadian lumber companies to undercut American rivals.
The Administration and American producers contended that fees charged by Canadian provincial governments for timber harvests on public lands were so low that they amounted to production subsidies. The memorandum provided for the tax to be lifted if the fees were raised.
Michael H. Wilson, Canada's Minister of Industry, Science and Technology and its Minister for International Trade, said in a statement today that provinces accounting for 92 percent of Canadian exports had raised their fees.
Canadian lumber producers had also lobbied aggressively for an end to the export fees, contending that since the memorandum was signed they were burdened with falling lumber prices, a stronger Canadian dollar and a slumping housing construction market in North America.
Canada's leading lumber-exporting province, British Columbia, has been exempt from the export tax since 1987 under an amendment to the memorandum that links timber harvesting fees there to lumber prices. Lumber has risen in price this year, and Gus Kuehne, the president of the Northwest Independent Forest Manufacturers, a trade group in Tacoma, Wash., said that the Canadian move today was an effort to avoid raising the harvest fees in British Columbia.
A Canadian official who insisted on anonymity said Canada acted now because it had just finished a large-scale study showing that the provinces' management of their forests was profitable, and that no subsidies were involved.
Either country may cancel the 1986 memorandum by giving 30 days' notice. Canada served notice today, so that the pact will expire on Oct. 4.
Lawmakers from Western lumber-producing states were quick to criticize the announcement today by the Canadian Government and to link it to the talks now under way for a North American Free Trade Agreement.
"You certainly can't feel very confident blasting forward on a set of expanded market-opening measures when they can't even honor a smaller agreement," said Representative Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who voted in May to give the Administration authority to negotiate the free-trade pact.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (54%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES; MEXICO CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (87%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (87%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOUSING MARKET (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CHRISTIAN PIERRET (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



97 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Industry Survey Shows Solid Growth in August

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Helped by a surge in new orders, the nation's manufacturing economy expanded solidly in August, according to a monthly survey by the nation's purchasing managers. It was the third consecutive monthly expansion and economists saw it as another sign that the nation's economic recovery was under way at a steady, albeit gradual pace.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said yesterday that its monthly index of business activity edged up to 54.8 percent, from 51.8 percent in July. The index, compiled from interviews with purchasing officers at more than 300 industrial companies across the country, was at 50.9 percent in June. Before that, the survey had indicated a decline in the manufacturing economy for more than a year. 
 A reading below 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is declining, while a reading above 50 percent indicates an expansion.
 
Pace Seen Accelerating
 "The index demonstrates that economic activity is still rising and, measured by this index, it appears that the pace of expansion has accelerated recently," said Andrew F. Brimmer, a former governor of the Federal Reserve and president of Brimmer & Associates, an economic consulting firm in Washington. "The reduction in inventories suggests that production in the future will most likely pick up somewhat as demand continues to expand."
The purchasing managers' report came out as the Government released data stating that construction spending rose 1.6 percent in July. The two reports, which followed conflicting economic reports last year, sent stock prices higher briefly yesterday morning, before the market sagged again.
Mr. Brimmer said that a gradual increase in prices in the economy indicated "there is little pressure on capacity at the moment." He added, "This suggests that the industrial sector is sharing and is supporting the economic recovery."
The purchasing managers' report is considered an important economic indicator because it is based on a survey of managers from a wide range of industrial companies. Also, it is the first important indicator each month of how the nation's economy performed in the previous month.
The survey indicated that production rose moderately in August, while employment declined. Also, new orders for export expanded in August at a higher pace than in the previous month.
The August figures represented the highest level in the purchasing managers' survey since December 1988, when the index stood at 56 percent.
"The economic recovery galvanized in August," said Robert J. Bretz, director of corporate purchasing at Pitney Bowes Inc. and chairman of the association's survey committee. "The continued growth in the manufacturing economy was apparently achieved without any growth in inventory."
 
Gain Termed Significant
 Mr. Bretz and several economists suggested that the gain in new orders was particularly significant because it served as a harbinger of the pace of industrial production in the months to come. The survey's index of new orders climbed to 63.1 percent, up sharply from 56.3 percent in July. That was the highest level in more than three years; the index stood at 63.3 percent in June 1988.
The association's index of new orders for export climbed to 55 percent, from 52.5 percent in July. Production continued to grow in August, the third consecutive monthly increase and the highest reading since June 1988, when the index stood at 61.7 percent. The production index rose to 61.4 percent, from 59.5 percent in July. Economists said production should increase sharply in coming months because of the increase in new orders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT PITNEY BOWES INC (61%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (71%); GOVERNORS (67%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



98 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

MARKETS
The S.E.C. is investigating whether improper bond bids by Salomon were part of a broader effort by a group of investment houses to corner the bond market. In a letter to Congress, the commission's chief, Richard C. Breeden, said it had issued more than 135 subpoenas and requests for information to determine whether Salomon acted alone in violating regulations. He did not identify other firms suspected of manipulating bond prices. [Page D1.] 
 Stock prices fell amid persistent concerns about the pace of the economic recovery. The Dow Jones industrials dropped 25.93, to 3,017.67. [D8.] Prices of Treasury securities inched higher. [D13.]
Stirrings in the export market sent wheat futures a little higher on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn and soybeans edged lower. [D14.] The dollar weakened in quiet post-holiday trading. [D14.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Saudi Arabia has significantly increased its stocks of oil in storage to around 60 million barrels and is signaling its determination to keep worldwide supplies plentiful and prices down. [D1.]
Canada told the U.S. it would cancel a tax on lumber exports. The tax had been imposed in response to American complaints, and the decision to remove it brought an immediate U.S. protest. [D1.]
Japan's Finance Ministry has reopened an inquiry into whether Nomura manipulated a stock on behalf of an organized crime figure, amid new disclosures of possibly illegal dealings. [D1.]
The Philippines and a group of bankers have agreed on a plan to reorganize nearly $5 billion of medium- and long-term loans. [D2.]
 
THE ECONOMY
The nation's manufacturing economy expanded solidly in August, according to a survey by purchasing managers. [D2.] Residential and Government spending helped raise the value of new construction 1.6 percent in July, the Commerce Department said. [D2.]
Japan's auto makers are emerging from the U.S. recession with a far bigger slice of the market. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
Sun is beginning an attempt to become a major supplier of operating system software, putting it into direct competition with Microsoft and a joint venture of Apple and I.B.M. [D4.]
H. Ross Perot Jr. has held talks with Continental about a possible venture with several foreign carriers. [D13.]
Forstmann Little has signed an agreement to invest $350 million for a one-third interest in Whittle Communications. [D18.]
At least 26 new boxed sets of CD's will be in record stores for Christmas, according to Billboard magazine. Recording companies know that repackaging old material in sets can be lucrative. [D1.]
Community Psychiatric Centers agreed to buy two related hospital companies in a deal estimated at about $175 million. [D4.]
Fire engulfed an Imperial Food Products plant in Hamlet, N.C., killing 25 people and injuring 40. [A1.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
A Massachusetts company hopes to begin human clinical trials of a compound that enables drugs to cross the blood-brain barrier, which limits the flow of substances into tissues of the brain. [D7.]
A talking fax machine may soon keep companies in closer contact with far-flung employees. [D7.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Everyone knows that teen-age pregnancy is the curse of the underclass. But everyone, it seems, could be wrong. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Chemical Waste Management has been trading near its 52-week low. Some analysts see a rebound. Market Place. [D8.]
Group W Radio is pledging $1 million to start an annual award for creative radio advertising. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS622210 PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE HOSPITALS (50%); SIC8063 PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); COMMUNITY PSYCHIATRIC CENTERS (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); WHEAT MARKETS (79%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (79%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); CORN MARKETS (79%); GRAIN MARKETS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (74%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); HOSPITALS (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (61%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (61%); RECORD INDUSTRY (60%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); MUSIC STORES (60%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (58%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



99 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

Soviet Turmoil A12-17
Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin acknowledged differences but joined together in urging the adoption of a new governing structure for the Soviet Union, based on the resurgent power of its republics.Page A1
Soviet leaders devote prime time to television A17
Apparatchiks face unemployment. But one former member of the powerful Central Committee who is out of work says that it was inevitable, and that the Communist Party was fading rapidly. A13
Victors find words of bereavement for old order and its idols A13
Leningrad has been doing business independent of Moscow to a degree unforeseen even a year ago. It has officials roaming the Soviet Union to make barter deals for food and a steady supply of raw materials. A1
Azerbaijanis are enjoying the drama of all the political tumult, even if they know not to take everything at face value. Particularly entertaining has been the showmanship of a leader performing for his political life. A16
Lithuania's defense minister has nonviolent strategy A12
 
International A3-10
Israel will request $10 billion in housing loan guarantees from the U.S., it said. The move could force the Administration to choose between its hope to get the Israelis to a peace conference and its desire to tie any extra aid to a freeze on housing in the occupied territories. A3
Saudi Arabia has been storing oil at an increased rate and signaling its determination to keep worldwide supplies plentiful and prices down, as Soviet production falls. D1
Iraq law allows opposition groups A6
Exiled general urges Lebanese to resist A7 Relations between Britain and China are generally back to normal, Prime Minister Major said, but he also emphasized that in talks with Chinese leaders he had pressed for improvements on human rights. A5
A Yugoslav peace conference will be convened by the European Community to try to find a solution to the many conflicts dividing that country, the community announced. A3
Communists in Spain roiled over calls to disband A10
Rome Journal: A poisoned season with dead dolphins A4
 
National A18-21, B7
A fire killed 25 people and injured 40 at a chicken processing plant in Hamlet, N.C., officials said. The plant turned into an inferno in which panicked workers were trapped by blocked or locked doors, witnesses said. A1
Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia, the first black American to be elected Governor, is considering a run for the Presidency. He would bring to the race a compelling life story, clear star appeal and sharp political elbows. A1
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California said he was dropping his bid for the Senate to open an exploratory candidacy for President. He said he wanted to serve as the voice for the disaffected, and would accept no contribution larger than $100. A20
Study calls for more TV time for '92 candidates A20 Thomas backers air ad critical of three Senators A18
Washington journal: Neighborhood builds on its rubble A18
The S.E.C. is investigating whether the improper bids for Treasury securities submitted by Salomon Brothers were part of a broader effort by a group of investment houses to corner the bond market, its chairman said. D1
A 37-year-old woman was convicted of plotting to kill the mother of her daughter's chief rival in a cheerleading competition in Texas. A18
A Lutheran position on abortion was adopted by the Lutheran Church, which said that abortion could be a morally responsible choice in a limited number of cases. A20
Doctors are warned on conflicts of interest B7
 
Regional B1-6
New York City's shelter system for homeless families has become so livable that hundreds of families who could stay elsewhere are flocking to shelters so they can move to the top of the list for permanent subsidized housing, city officials say. A1
The chief homeless policy adviser of New York City resigned. She said that the city's programs needed to be rethought to include a range of social services to prevent people from becoming homeless. B2 The motorman whose train derailed, killing five people, was indicted for murder, a more serious charge than the manslaughter counts he was arrested for after the crash. B1
Motorman's case reflects city's horror, experts say B4
Driver injures four girls in Rockaways and flees B6
Natural gas buildup blamed for Brooklyn blast B3 Voter registration was the priority of some Hispanic political leaders in Queens's District 21 this campaign season. They hope that their efforts will pay off in future elections, if not the present one. B1
Welfare reform is championed in New Jersey by an unlikely source. He is Wayne Bryant, the Democratic majority leader of the State Assembly and the state's highest-ranking black legislator. B1
A popular Connecticut dairy store, Stew Leonard's in Norwalk, is beloved in a way that few stores are. An announcement of an I.R.S. investigation of the store was greeted by pure scorn by many residents. B1
Bridgeport starts appeal in bankruptcy case B5
Pressmen union sues Times on arbitration B6

Business Digest D1
 
The Living Section
Food
The "new" Fannie Farmer C1
Bensonhursts's zucchini glut C1
A Rosh ha-Shanah table C6
Wine Talk C8
Living
Anniversaries, anniversaries C1
 
Health Page C11
High blood pressure may pose less of a danger for women
 
Arts/Entertainment
Studios court Woody Allen C13
Massachusetts Museum of Art is in financial straits C13
Theater: New from Steppenwolf C13
Film: "Swan Lake: The Zone," from the Ukraine C13
 
Obituaries
Frank Capra died at 94. The director made movies suffused with affectionate portrayals of the common man and the strengths and foibles of democracy. B10
Susumu Ishii, Japanese gang boss B9
Alfonso Garcia Robles shared Nobel for atom arms ban B9
 
Education Page B8
District finds a way to end segregaton
Bush stresses schools as critics turn up the heat
 
Sports B11-18
Baseball: Mets set back Astros, 6-1 B13
Basketball: Ordeal over for young star B11
Columns: Anderson on the Giants B11
Claire Smith on Baseball B13
TV Sports: Rage of the OpenB15
Football: Handley pleased with first-game result B11
Tennis: Capriati beats Sabatini in straight sets B11
U.S. Open builds to frenetic pace B15
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A22
Three tests of Soviet survival
For City Council from Queens
Robert B. Semple Jr.: Tennis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); POULTRY PROCESSING (64%); GOVERNORS (63%); 

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



100 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Undaunted by Doubters, Wilder Ponders '92

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
A call for budget cuts and fiscal responsibility is probably not the most compelling message for the more liberal voters of the Democratic Presidential primaries.
And a first-term Governor only 20 months into his term is probably not the strongest contender for his party's Presidential nomination, some analysts would argue. 
 But Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia is comfortable contradicting conventional wisdom. When he ran for lieutenant governor in 1985, he tells his audiences, "People said I was crazy." And when he ran for governor in 1989, he says, "People said I was certifiably insane."
 
'My Future Is Now'
 Now Mr. Wilder, the first black to be elected Governor of a state in the nation's history, is considering a run for the Presidency. Barred by Virginia law from seeking two consecutive terms and facing a wide-open field for the Democratic Presidential nomination, Governor Wilder says with a smile: "Some people say my future is now. I don't see any downside at all."
The 60-year-old Governor would bring to the race a compelling life story, a clear star appeal and a set of sharp political elbows. He wants to run as a chief executive who can "put necessities before niceties," put the nation's fiscal house in order and ease the tax burden on the middle class. He positions himself as an outsider, taking aim at the clubby Washington elites and what he calls their annual "fiscal follies."
 
Battle in the South
 Mr. Wilder's entry could set the stage for a hard-fought campaign in the South against a fellow Governor, Bill Clinton of Arkansas, another potential candidate. This could be all the more competitive if the Rev. Jesse Jackson chooses not to run, a move that would give Mr. Wilder and others a much clearer shot for the support of black voters, who made up 24 percent of the Democratic vote in the 1988 "Super Tuesday" Southern primaries.
It is an intriguing script for a Presidential campaign, but Mr. Wilder has often veered from it. After announcing an exploratory committee last spring, he spent much of the summer in the limelight -- not over his Presidential ambitions, but over a bitter, almost incomprehensible feud with Senator Charles S. Robb, a fellow Democrat and Virginian.
In his recent Presidential forays Mr. Wilder has found himself still explaining and apologizing for a remark he made in midsummer about Judge Clarence Thomas: Mr. Wilder suggested to reporters that the Supreme Court nominee should be closely questioned about his views on abortion because of his Roman Catholic background.
Like many of the other potential candidates for the Democratic nomi nation, Mr. Wilder has few credentials on foreign policy. He drew attention to that vulnerability last week when he seemed to discuss, in a television interview, the possibility of assassinating Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi President, as a means of bringing stability to the Middle East.
For all of that, Mr. Wilder seemed unshaken, blithely ready for new battles as he drove through New Hampshire last week. He brushed aside the talk of gaffes and stumbles, and dismissed the notion of an invincible President Bush.
"It bothers me, it really bothers me, when people say Bush can't be beaten," Mr. Wilder said in an interview. "Why? Who says so? Margaret Thatcher couldn't be beaten. Winston Churchill couldn't be. Gorbachev couldn't be.
"All were considered experts on foreign policy, but hoist on the petard of domestic inactivity," the Governor said.
 
Emphasis on Domestic Needs
 Mr. Wilder sticks implacably to the nation's domestic needs, even as the Soviet Union implodes in ever more dramatic ways. Amid rising calls for aid to the Soviet Union, Mr. Wilder said, "Before there is any significant aid in any massive amount, the American people ought to be considered our first priority."
His latest slogan is "Put America First," an echo of past isolationist movements in the United States that campaign aides said was inadvertent.
Like other Democratic contenders, Mr. Wilder focuses on the troubled economy -- "We're in for hard times, lean times, even mean times," he says -- but his emphasis and his remedies are not the normal Democratic fare.
Mr. Wilder argues that "the restoration of the nation's fiscal health" should become "the highest priority." He assails the "fiscal follies in Washington, which see more and more of our national resources going not to educate our kids, not to reform our health care system, not to build new industries, but merely to service the mushrooming debt that has been growing in order to pay for the high living of the past."
 
$35 Billion in Tax Relief
 He calls for $50 billion in cuts in the Federal budget, redirecting $35 billion to middle-class tax relief and $15 billion to state and local governments for new approaches to social problems like drug abuse. He does not specify where those cuts are to be made, but cites his record in Virginia as evidence he could make them, and points to his ability to handle the state's fiscal problems by cutting spending rather than raising taxes to balance the budget.
Robert D. Holsworth, chairman of the political science department at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, said Mr. Wilder "can certainly point to an unwavering commitment to fiscal discipline in the state since he came into office." But Mr. Holsworth added that Mr. Wilder has been largely a "status quo, caretaker Governor," with little he can point to in the way of experimentation in social programs.
Joe Elton, executive director of the Virginia Republican Party, asserted, "It's sort of like Dukakis; the story he sells is not exactly the story we're living in Virginia."
Governor Wilder also argues that the Democratic Party needs to address, head on, the issue of civil rights in the face of Republican efforts to cast the Democrats as advocates of racial quotas.
"It's something that Democrats cannot and should not be afraid to debate and put on the table," he said in an interview. "Mr. Bush, are you going to make this a gentler, kinder nation? Then quit this nonsense about the civil rights act being a quota bill. Quit it. You know darn well that it's not a quota bill."
The Governor added: "If they want to know what real quotas are I could tell them -- sitting in the back of the bus, being herded into neighborhood theaters, not being able to get a book out of the neighborhood library. Denied the opportunity to vote -- by law. Denied the opportunity to hold elective office - by law. Talk about quotas -- come on, let's get real now. And not be afraid to discuss it, anywhere."
On the stump Mr. Wilder was often vague on bread-and-butter Democratic issues like health care. "He'll need to get more specific as the campaign progresses," said Robert Craig, a former state Democratic chairman and professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire, after listening to the Virginia Governor speak there.
But Mr. Wilder has a gracious style with voters that was very much in evidence in New Hampshire, where he ended nearly every encounter with a "God bless." He chatted companionably about the economy in a barber shop in Nashua. He headed into a restaurant in Portsmouth, press entourage sprawling behind him, and was greeted by the proprieter, Emilio Maddaloni, like a long-lost friend -- "You gotta cream soda here, here you go."
When a passer-by in Nashua told Mr. Wilder that the Democrats would "never, never, never" beat Mr. Bush, the Governor replied with a smile, "Never say never." And when he was asked about his background at a Democratic reception in Nashua, Mr. Wilder began, "I went to Haaaaa-vard." Then he proceeded to give his actual educational resume: Virginia Union University and Howard University School of Law.
Mr. Wilder says he will announce his decision on whether to run for the Presidency on or around Sept. 15.
 
Ready to Compare Records
 Paul Goldman, the chairman of the Virginia Democratic Party and a top adviser to the Governor, said he looks forward to putting Mr. Wilder's record up against those of potential competitors. As for the argument that Mr. Wilder has a comparatively short tenure as Governor for a Presidential contender, Mr. Goldman said: "Doug Wilder has been in government a long time. And unlike Bill Clinton, Doug Wilder couldn't have been elected Governor of Virginia in 1978."
Mr. Wilder seemed delighted to be back on the campaign trail last week. He was more reflective, in an interview, when asked if he burned to be President.
"That's what I've got to find out," he said. "If I burned, there wouldn't be any qustion about what I'd be doing."
Moments later, however, as he prepared for his next campaign event, he said, "I'll tell you, it's warming up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. L. Douglas Wilder visiting a general store in Epping, N.H. (pg. A1); Gov. L. Douglas Wilder on a campaign walking tour of Portsmouth, N.H. With him were Eileen Foley, left, the Mayor of Portsmouth, and Anita Freedman, chairman of the city's Democratic Party. (pg. A21) (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BLACKS (IN US) GOVERNORS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JUDGES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); HISTORY (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); ABORTION (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: WILDER, L DOUGLAS (GOV); TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



101 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: Families Seek Out Shelters As Route to Better Homes

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
New York City's shelter system for homeless families has become so livable that hundreds, if not thousands, of families who could stay elsewhere are flocking to shelters so they can move to the top of the list for permanent subsidized housing, city officials say.
Dorian and Renita Steeley and their three children, for example, were crowded into a two-bedroom apartment with relatives. But they wanted their own place. So they went to the city and said they were homeless. They now have a functional two-bedroom apartment in a Bronx shelter, at a cost to the city of $2,730 a month. 
 Mr. Steeley is certified to work with the mentally ill, and Mrs. Steeley has been employed as a dental assistant. But they are now receiving public assistance, and neither plans to work until they get a permanent place to live.
"I consider this a little vacation, " she said recently.
 
Distorting System's Purpose
 City officials say families like the Steeleys are distorting the shelter system's original purpose -- to help families who have no place to live or who live in dangerous conditions -- and raising questions about the city's strategy for aiding homeless families.
Critics say that the city's policy on homelessness, which is by far the most generous and extensive in the nation, illustrates the difficulty of balancing society's responsibility to help the poor against the poor's responsibility to help themselves.
The city, which was long criticized for dumping homeless families into crumbling, drug-infested welfare hotels, has in recent years built a system that is more humane. But at the same time, officials in the administration of former Mayor Edward I. Koch warned that making it too easy for families in shelters to get permanent housing could lure more families into the system.
Some experts argue that the system now perversely rewards such "homeless" families by giving them priority for subsidized housing -- and in effect penalizes those who continue to struggle without help in overcrowded, often substandard apartments.
 
'They're Not Stupid'
 It is only natural that some families will use the rules of the system to their advantage, said Randall Filer, a professor of economics at Hunter College. "The clients may be poor, but they're not stupid," he said.
The Steeleys could have stayed on with relatives, Renita Steeley said, but they saw the shelter system as an opportunity to improve their lot.
They are now waiting for a permanent apartment in a city-run public housing project. The waiting list for such housing is 189,000 names long. But the city is setting aside 2,000 of an anticipated 8,000 apartment vacancies this year for homeless families in the shelter system, so the Steeleys have a much better chance of getting a unit than a family on the waiting list that is not officially "homeless."
Mr. Steeley said it would have made a lot more sense for the city to place them directly in permanent housing. "We have skills," he said. "We're not bums. We just need a place to live."
Unlike the Steeleys, Shirley H. and Jamel H. work full time, as Wells Fargo guards at a city homeless shelter, earning $6.90 an hour each. But these homeless shelter workers, who have a 5-month-old baby, are now "homeless" themselves.
The couple -- who would not allow their last name to be used -- understood the system. They were living with Jamel's mother in Harlem -- nine people jammed into a two-bedroom apartment -- when they decided to enter the shelter system in the hope of being placed in permanent housing.
Jamel knew he did not want to live in a barracks-type shelter where many families share a single, large room -- the so-called Tier I shelters. He and Shirley work in a Tier I, after all.
"I would have stayed at my mother's house or gone to my brother's," rather than go to a Tier I, Jamel said. And many other families make the same choice. About 25 percent of the families assigned to Tier I shelters are no-shows, according to city records.
But the city assigned Shirley and Jamel to a Tier II shelter, where they have a private two-bedroom apartment. They got priority for a Tier II placement because they have a baby.
In the last five years, the city has tripled the number of Tier II apartments for homeless families, to 3,200. As the family shelter system has improved, the cost of running it has skyrocketed from $28 million in 1983 to an anticipated $210 million this year.
Now, while Jamel and Shirley wait to qualify for subsidized housing, they are taking advantage of the months with no rent to pay. Jamel, 37 years old, asked, "Where else you going to go where you don't have to pay bills and have time to save something?"
In the last few years, the shelter system has improved so much that thousands of families live in decent, rent-free apartments while they wait a few months to a year for permanent, subsidized housing.
 
A Right to Shelter
 The driving engine of city policy is a 1986 state court order, obtained by legal advocates for the homeless, that gives families a right to shelter on demand. But the city has no system or staff to find out whether families truly have no other options for housing.
Larry Schatt, director of city shelters for homeless families in the Human Resources Administration, said: "You could have credit cards and money in the bank, and if you say you can't house yourself, I still have to house you. I have no real ability to verify anything."
Mayor David N. Dinkins came into office in 1990 with plans to reduce the number of homeless families in welfare hotels and shelters. His administration mobilized to move them quickly into permanent housing, cutting the wait from nine months to three months or less.
The administration acted despite an explicit warning from William J. Grinker, head of the Human Resources Administration under Mayor Koch, that speeding up the placement of families in permanent housing could encourage more families to enter the system.
At the time, Nancy G. Wackstein, director of Mayor Dinkins's office on homelessness, dismissed the idea that people used shelters as a route to permanent housing. Only cynics would argue that, she thought.
"I was a little more naive then," she now says ruefully. "It was a Kochian philosophy that I had rejected."
 
More Enter the System
 But Ms. Wackstein -- who resigned yesterday, citing frustration with the city's inability to solve the problems of homelessness -- said it quickly became evident that the faster families got out of the shelters, the faster new families came in.
About 11,290 families entered the shelter system last year, compared with 10,370 the year before and 9,640 in fiscal year 1989. Of the 11,290 families last year, city records show that about three-quarters were living doubled up with friends or relatives just before entering the system.
It is impossible to say how many of those families were forced out of their previous homes and really have nowhere else to go, but city officials say that a substantial portion of them entered the shelter system voluntarily.
The city's Housing Authority estimates that 100,000 people are living doubled up in public housing alone.
Advocates for the homeless, however, dispute the contention that large numbers of families are coming into the shelter system by choice. "The overwhelming majority of families seeking shelter have no other options," said Steve Banks, coordinating attorney of the Homeless Family Rights Project of the Legal Aid Society.
 
Shortage of Housing
 City officials and advocates for the homeless agree that the central problem is a shortage of low-income housing. The Federal Government pays half the costs of sheltering homeless families, but has slashed spending to create permanent homes that poor people can afford. The city has spent $600 million since 1984 to create 27,000 permanent apartments for homeless families and single adults, but the demand is unquenched.
City officials have considered a number of changes to try to insure that the shelter system is used only as a last resort for the desperate.
In November, the Dinkins administration tried to discourage doubled-up families from moving into shelters by once again making them wait 9 to 12 months in the system to get most apartments. The city also set aside about 1,000 subsidized apartments for doubled-up families who had not entered the shelter system.
The city has also considered narrowing the definition of homelessness to families who really have no place -- or no safe place -- to live. But that would require a costly bureaucracy to investigate everyone who applied for shelter.
What's an Emergency?
"Who determines what's a real emergency?" Ms. Wackstein asked. "If you're living with a brother who's a drug dealer and carries an Uzi, is that dangerous?"
For some teen-age mothers on welfare, the shelter system is a rite of passage to independence.
"I figured the best way to get a place of my own was to go through the system," said 19-year-old Deborah Brown, jouncing her 18-month-old son on her knee. "I told them I wasn't homeless. But my mother raised me already. Why should I have to live with her?"
For others, the shelter is better than living with demanding relatives. Judy Green, 29, has been in and out of welfare hotels and shelters at least 10 times. Her life has been disrupted by men who went to jail and by her own crack habit, which she said she has kicked.
Most recently, she was living with her grandmother. "Sometimes, I didn't feel like getting up and cleaning up," Ms. Green said. "And my grandmother keeps a very clean place."
So she returned to the shelter system. "Only thing this place is good for," she said, "is getting you a place to stay."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many families are entering the city's shelter system in hopes of having a better chance of being placed in permanent subsidized housing, city officials say. Dorian and Renita Steeley and their three children, above, told the city that they were homeless and how have a two-bedroom apartment in a Bronx shelter that costs the city $2,730 a month. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: A BETTER CHANCE (59%); A BETTER CHANCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (59%); A BETTER CHANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; WELFARE (US); HOUSING; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (93%); HOMELESSNESS (92%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); CHILDREN (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; STEELEY, DORIAN

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



102 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Says New Art Museum Must Help Pay Costs

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
Unless substantial private money is found to replace state funds, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, the dream museum that would showcase large-scale collections of 20th-century art in North Adams, Mass., will not get off the drawing board.
That's the word from the office of Gov. William F. Weld, a Republican whose administration inherited the state-backed project from the Democratic regime of former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis. 
 In a memorandum to Governor Weld, Daniel S. Gregory, secretary for economic affairs in the Weld administration, wrote, "The administration must support the project to some degree for economic development reasons, but must also leverage the project into an example of the administration's privatization campaign."
The $87.5 million museum, known by the acronym Mass Moca, was conceived six years ago by Thomas Krens, at the time director of the Williams College Art Museum in nearby Williamstown and now director of the Guggenheim Museum in New York City.
 
Abandoned Factory Site
 The museum would occupy the buildings of the abandoned Sprague Electric factory site in North Adams, a town in the northwest corner of the state in which 17 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. The Weld administration's stand is a blow to the town, which has been looking to the museum as a tourist attraction that would provide jobs and generate dollars for the hard-pressed local economy.
The museum's focus on large-scale contemporary art would be implemented by loans from several internationally known collectors, and also from the collection of the Guggenheim Museum in New York, which has expressed interest in becoming the museum's operator.
Governor Weld has directed Mr. Gregory to meet with members of the Mass Moca Commission -- a body set up to oversee the construction and operation of the museum -- so that agreement can be reached on a "specific financial restructuring plan" before the state releases further funds, a spokesman for the Governor said.
The Weld team has frozen $688,000 approved for release by the Dukakis administration. The money was meant to cover the costs of soliciting a private operator for the museum, to start a fund-raising campaign and to undertake environmental impact studies. The plan was for the $688,000 to be drawn, like earlier money given for a feasibility study, against a $35 million bond issue passed by the legislature during Mr. Dukakis's tenure. But for now, at least, the state will not float the bond issue.
 
'Dollars as Well as Words'
 In his memorandum to the Governor, Mr. Gregory wrote: "In approving this project, the previous administration obligated the state to bear the financial burden. Considering the administration's stance on privatization, I disagree with this premise. The private sector and partner institutions such as the Guggenheim Museum must demonstrate their support with substantial dollars as well as words. As it currently stands, Mass Moca is a monument to state-subsidized projects."
Under terms of the agreement between the Mass Moca Commission and the state, 30 percent of the projected $35 million bond issue must be raised in local matching funds to effect the full release of the bond money, in increments over three years. The $688,000 was to be the next increment. To produce the matching funds required, a volunteer committee has undertaken the first phase of a three-year fund-raising campaign that would bring in $12.8 million, more than the required 30 percent. So far it has raised more than $1 million from private local and regional supporters.
In reporting to Governor Weld, Mr. Gregory mentioned several "flaws" he saw in the Mass Moca project as it stands, among them a projected attendance of more than 150,000 people a year, which Mr. Gregory said was too high. The Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in nearby Williamstown, world renowned for its collection of Impressionist art, only draws 116,000 visitors a year, Mr. Gregory pointed out.
He also said that while the Guggenheim had tentatively agreed to operate the museum and provide "a majority of the art presented," it was unclear whether the Guggenheim would simply be using the site to get some of its art out of storage.
 
The Guggenheim's Role
 Michael Govan, deputy director of the Guggenheim, said that the museum, if chosen as Mass Moca's operator, would be responsible for the art installations, would assemble long-term loans from artists and collectors and would present works from its own collection. But he added,
"In no way would this activity compromise the quality of our New York activities."
Mr. Krens, the Guggenheim's director, was formerly chairman of the Mass Moca Commission, but has no formal connection with the museum at this point. When the feasibility study for the project was approved by the commission, Mr. Krens resigned from Mass Moca to avoid the perception of a conflict of interest.
In a recent letter to Joseph Thompson, director of Mass Moca, Mr. Gregory referred to the project as "fiscally unsound." But he said he would work with Mr. Thompson to try to create a "feasible scenario" that would allow Mass Moca to move ahead soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH ADAMS (MASS); MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BONDS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (62%); BOND ISSUES (60%); POVERTY RATES (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE; WELD, WILLIAM F (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



103 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
McMullen Giving Up Best Seat in the House

BYLINE: By Claire Smith

 BODY:
When all is said and done, owners of baseball's two expansion teams are each expected to pay out at least $120 million each for expenses, including a $95 million sign-up fee, before one pitch is thrown.
In Baltimore, owners of the Orioles are trying to sell their team for a reported $200 million. 
 Which brings to mind two questions. Who, in their right mind, would buy a baseball team at such prices? Second, if franchises are now being valued in the hundreds of millions, who, in their right mind, would sell?
Well, John McMullen has been in both positions. He bought the Houston Astros about a decade ago. And now, in 1991, he wants to sell. McMullen doesn't believe sanity or lack thereof is a factor at either end of the equation.
"If a person just has $100 million to their name, then they shouldn't buy a baseball team," McMullen said with a laugh. "If he has $200 million, though, why not? What's he going to do with that money, anyway? And where else are you going to have this kind of fun?"
As for his reasons for selling, he cites a multiplicity of reasons. First, none of his three adult children have shown an interest in taking over the team. And, said the 73-year-old McMullen, "I've reached that stage of life when one thinks about the inevitable."
Therefore, baseball, a labor of love that McMullen insists it still is, just doesn't provide enough fun to keep him indefinitely hankering for more.
There are other reasons, some of them having to do with current economic trends. But McMullen says: "I don't believe in the doomsday prognostications. I believe the value of franchises will continue to go up."
Now, some might say, McMullen has a vested interest in assuring anyone of that. But McMullen remains outspoken on enough issues, including expansion (he's against it), and $5 million salaries (he's against them) to show that he still has financial doubts. His prognostications also include continued adversarial relationships between management and the players union and difficult financial times in smaller markets.
"But this is a game that survives itself," he said.
So it is this middle of the road, far away from predictions of unrelenting ruin, where you will find McMullen trying to sell his team. Although he will not deal in specifics, the $95 million fee for expansion teams reportedly appeals to him. Whether he could get that in Houston or be allowed to look to other markets remain significant questions.
What types buy in this day and age?
Corporations, for one, he says, powerful in their own rights, looking to be made even larger in the public eye. Consortiums interested in preventing franchises from relocating also buy. Then there are the private individual investors, "people who have the commitment, the love of the game," McMullen said.
These are the types who had better have the money, too. Some do, like Wayne Huizenga, who is about to absorb the costs connected with the start-up of the Florida Marlins. Others, notably Jeff Smulyan in Seattle, ultimately may not have had enough to survive in the game.
Even if all the money is there, it may not ultimately be able to buy a tough-enough hide, an important consideration.
McMullen admits the fun isn't what it once was. Being not only from out of town but from up north, McMullen, a New York City businessman, never enjoyed warm relations with Houston or its news media. An absolute chill after he decided against re-signing Nolan Ryan or other players who were seeking to make their fortunes via free agency.
McMullen, who also owns hockey's New Jersey Devils, does not back away from his beliefs no matter how unpopular. He boasts of the fact that his 1991 Astros are the only team in the majors without a player's contract extending past the current season. "Who do the fans appreciate more, what they saw a Ryan Bowen do yesterday, a pitcher we pay $100,000, or what Frank Viola does, a pitcher who makes, what, $3 million?" McMullen asked, referring to the Astros rookie who outdueled Viola in a 3-0 Houston victory at Shea Stadium Monday afternoon.
The Astros, with 11 rookies on the active roster, are also in last place in the National League West. But McMullen, who has his own formula for figuring standings based on salaries, defiantly states that, "based on dollars, we're winning by a wide margin." But, admits McMullen, "How do you explain that to the media?"
Or to the fans. For all the excitement about the youth movement and players like Jeff Bagwell and Al Osuna, the Astros are averaging just 16,000 fans a game.
If that is a proper gauge on how he is doing or at least how fans are voting, McMullen will not say. And he won't deny that the Ryan Bowens eventually grow up and, if good enough, perform at levels that command the salaries like Frank Viola's. That going rate is one of the things that John McMullen chooses to no longer deal with.
McMullen won't be around to see which of his prognostications prove out. The game now must find yet another to take that gamble.
Anyone with $100 million, $200 million to spare?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (71%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (58%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (58%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); TEXAS, USA (71%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); 

PERSON: MCMULLEN, JOHN; SMITH, CLAIRE

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



104 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Washington Journal;
Neighborhood Builds on Its Rubble

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Two years ago, Ana Ventura and her family lived in squalor in a run-down apartment building in this city's Shaw neighborhood, trying to avoid the drug trafficking that occurred on every floor.
Today, Ms. Ventura, along with the other tenants, is about to take ownership of the building, which has been cleaned up with the help of a city program and a local church. 
 The Spirit of W Street, as the co-operative building is now called, is a visible example of the changes taking place in Shaw, a Northwest Washington neighborhood about a mile from the White House that once was the focal point of black life here.
A quarter-century after the riots that left the area a grid of burned-out and abandoned buildings, Shaw is struggling to come back. With help from the city, community organizations and private developers, housing is being built and renovated, theaters are to be restored and a memorial is planned to the black soldiers of the Civil War.
"It'll never come back to what it was," said John Snipes, who runs a store in the area. "But if we let this area go without first saying, 'Hey, these are some of the achievements blacks made,' young people won't know that at one time great things happened in this neighborhood."
When segregation laws divided the nation's capital into racial blocks, Shaw was the center of Washington's black community. It was a place where black stores and churches thrived and where the well-dressed turned out for the restaurants and theaters and nightclubs that hummed with the sounds of performers from Nat (King) Cole to James Brown.
"You could go from one block of U Street to the next and along the way find some of the most popular black entertainers in the world," Mr. Snipes said. "Sarah Vaughan, Ray Charles, every famous musician played U Street."
Beyond its status as an entertainment mecca, the neighborhood had a thriving business district, and in its heyday was known for its spirit of community. "It was a really happy community," said Lozzie York, an older woman who has lived in the neighborhood most of her life. "Really, really happy."
The community began to unravel in the mid-1950's as desegregation opened up new sections of the city and its suburbs to blacks. Then, the 1968 riots that followed the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. ripped the neighborhood open, scaring away residents and leaving poverty and crime. "The riots were what killed off the life of the community," said Stanley Mayes, a neighborhood commissioner.
A visitor today can walk for blocks in some parts of the neighborhood and find little commercial activity. "We don't have any supermarkets, we don't have any hardware stores, we don't have the local conveniences people think of when they think of a community," Mr. Mayes said. "So the money goes elsewhere."
He said he feared that without proper planning to attract stores handsome enough to keep residents in the neighborhood the sense of community would not return. He has called for a conference with developers and city officials to expand on the planning the city has already undertaken.
Attention has recently focused on the Lincoln Theater, a 69-year-old movie house the city is planning to take over and renovate. The developer who was restoring the theater has declared bankruptcy.
"Maybe we can get some entrepreneurs to come in and get some night spots put in, maybe some jazz," said Dominic Moulden, director of community outreach for St. Augustine Catholic Church.
The church has worked with a neighborhood coalition that has built housing units and has also worked with tenants, including Ms. Ventura, in forming co-operative housing boards, Mr. Moulden said.
Residents say that for all its problems Shaw's property values rose through the 1980's as the city's professional class began moving in, to be near Washington's downtown.
Mr. Moulden said he worries about the pitfalls of gentrification, which slowed greatly with the current recession. "I would say the neighborhood is heading in a good direction, but I worry about the low-income people and the senior citizens," he said. "A lot of the people who have been here a long time have been displaced."
The 1980's saw the neighborhood facing yet another difficulty with the construction of a subway line. Finally completed this spring, construction of the Green Line tore up the streets and chased away shoppers, bankrupting many businesses that had managed to survive everything else, local residents say.
"The Green Line knocked everything out of whack," Mr. Snipes said. "Those people that tried to hang on got nailed."
The hope now is that the finished Green Line will bring businesses and people back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: CO-OPERATIVE BANK PLC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS (IN US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); RIOTS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); RELIGION (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); MUSIC (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



105 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: About New York

BYLINE: By Joseph Berger

 BODY:
The year was 1888, a time when Brooklyn was its own city crowing over a shimmering new bridge to Manhattan. It was a time when young men with few resources, with scarcely a morsel of English, could make an honest living with a shoeshine brush and a box of polishes.
One of these was an orphan from Italy, Frank Caramanica. Buffing his way through the law and government offices that honeycomb Court Street downtown, he was able within a few years to establish a stand -- three chairs shaded by an awning -- right outside Borough Hall. 
 One hundred and three years later, that business is still going strong, kept alive by a grizzled Caramanica grandson and an aged family friend. It has been upgraded to a green metal shack sheltering three chairs and three pairs of brass footrests. A homemade sign boasts, "Shoe Shine The Best In Town."
At a time when people insist upon meaning and prestige as the price for a day's work, Frank Caramanica and Tony Juliano, in their undershirts and grimy blue aprons, are proving that a respectable living can still be made with a brush and a box full of polishes. They expect to shine shoes until the day they die, just like "the old man," who put down his brush at 94.
"Young people in their minds, they downgrade it," Mr. Caramanica said. "The shoeshine is nothing. Some people think, If you shine shoes, what kind of education can you have? But you get an education. You become streetwise. You learn human nature. I can look a person in the eye and see if they've got meanness in their eye."
The shoes that have been polished at the Caramanica stand reflect the brassy history of Brooklyn's politics and culture. Meade Esposito, Stanley Steingut, Abe Stark, Eugene Gold, Howard Golden, Charles Hynes and Thaddeus Owens all had their shoes shined there.
"Tony done Cuomo when Cuomo was a young lawyer at 26 Court Street," Mr. Caramanica said of the Governor.
Many a Brooklyn Dodger had his leisure shoes shined there when the team's owner, Walter O'Malley, had offices nearby. Marilyn Monroe had hers shined there, too, when she visited her ex-husband, the playwright Arthur Miller. Photographs of these celebrities are scattered on the walls among modest pinups that would offend few of the occasional female customers.
With the discretion of priests or psychologists, Mr. Caramanica and Mr. Juliano will not disclose the secrets confided to them by the powerful at whose feet they have bent.
"In this kind of business you've got to mind your own business," Mr. Caramanica said. "They talk. You don't pay attention. You can't ask questions. Who are you to ask questions? You shine shoes. You understand what I mean?"
Mr. Juliano added: "You ask questions, they tell you, 'Go into politics. Don't shine shoes.' "
Mr. Caramanica is a stocky man of 68 with doleful eyes and missing front teeth, and Mr. Juliano is a more wiry 79 with merry eyes that peek out through horn-rimmed glasses. From 7 A.M. to 2 P.M., they pump their brushes and flutter their cloths over wingtips, brogues and loafers at $2 a shine. It is, for the most part, a quiet business, since a shoeshine is a private indulgence, a grasp at solitude and reflection in a fast-paced day.
Yet burnishing a luminous shine into a shoe is no trifling skill.
"It's concentration," Mr. Caramanica said. "It's a lot of wrist action. You've got to know the colors, the tones. It ain't all that easy. If a guy comes in with green shoes, what do you do with green shoes?"
He answers his own question by pulling out a brush as plush and green as a sod of grass.
There are myths of fortunes built on a shoeshine and a smile, but the Caramanica stand does not subscribe. "We had no option," Mr. Caramanica said. "Our families were poor. There was no such thing as welfare." Still, Mr. Caramanica has managed to raise three daughters and Mr. Juliano one in modest apartments in working-class neighborhoods.
"You're free," Mr. Caramanica said. "You have no bosses telling you what to do. You feel like you're your own man, even though you're shining shoes."
The two men even shine each other's shoes.
Sadly, their business is endangered by a ragged economy -- "a shine is a luxury," Mr. Caramanica explained stoically -- and by more systemic ills.
"See those four men," he tells a visitor, pointing to a cluster of schmoozers on Joralemon Street. "Three of them are wearing sneakers. That's why I got time to sit here and talk with you. Even the lawyers wear sneakers."
Still, there is hope in customers like Carlos Russell, a retired professor, who derive from a shoeshine something more mystical than mere grooming; who believe, in words Fred Astaire once sang, that "when there's a shine on your shoes, there's a melody in your heart."
"One of the small pleasures one can get in life is having someone shine your shoes," Mr. Russell said. "My sense is that people believe shining shoes demeans them. It doesn't. It's an honest employment and a lost art."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Caramanica, left, and Tony Juliano at their shoeshine stand next to Borough Hall in Brooklyn. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN); BOROUGH HALL (BROOKLYN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: SHOESHINE STANDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WOMEN (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: CARAMANICA, FRANK; JULIANO, TONY; BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



106 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: In Queens District, Visions of Future Races

SERIES: Neighborhood Politics: Choosing the Council -- An occasional look at the races for New York's new City Council

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
While five candidates in District 21 in Queens try to woo voters in the City Council race, another political campaign is under way in the district. In Jackson Heights, Corona, Elmhurst and East Elmhurst, Hispanic leaders have begun courting people like Luis Santos, who cannot vote in this election because they are not American citizens.
"I want to be from here and from there," Mr. Santos, a 61-year-old janitor who came to the United States from the Dominican Republic 30 years ago, said recently.
For those who tried to assure that District 21's boundaries encompassed a substantial Hispanic majority, the prize is not this election but future ones. Hispanics make up 55 percent of the 137,931 residents in District 21, which is often the first stop for many immigrants. Because many of the district's Hispanic residents are recent immigrants from South American and Caribbean countries, they make up only a quarter of the registered voters. 
 So while others were busy trying to get a candidate elected in the primary election this month, many Hispanic leaders conducted voter registration drives instead.
 
Huge Registration Drive
 The Hispanic leaders, many of whom have written off a Hispanic victory in this year's primary, hope to get people like Mr. Santos to become United States citizens and to persuade those who already are citizens to vote. If successful, Hispanic leaders say, the effort would give Queens its first Hispanic elected official ever in 1993, when the full and expanded 51-member Council comes up for re-election.
"The political leaders in our borough say that Latinos don't count because they don't vote," said Guillermo Vasquez, a member of the New York City Latino Districting Commission who also heads one of the groups trying to increase voter registration in the district. "We want to prove them wrong."
When District 21 was first drawn it included Lefrak City, a huge housing complex that is predominantly black. The Justice Department rejected that version of the district, saying it shortchanged Hispanic voters. New lines were drawn that moved the complex into District 25 and left District 21 with a population that is 55 percent Hispanic, 16 percent white, 15 percent black and 13 percent Asian. But like several other districts whose lines have set off fierce political disputes, District 21 will most likely not elect a member of the ethnic group it was designed for. In District 21, the winning Council candidate will probably be a black candidate.
The three Hispanic candidates on the ballot for the primary election are relative unknowns. And while Hispanics in the area account for more than half the population, only 24.45 percent are registered voters, compared with 38 percent of whites and 33.48 percent of blacks.
 
Incumbent and 3 Challengers
 The five candidates are: Helen M. Marshall, the 62-year-old assemblywoman who has represented the 35th Assembly District for nine years and is the Queens Democratic Party and Liberal Party candidate; Irvine A. Bryer Jr., the 44-year-old pastor of the Corona Congregational Church and a member of the New York City Board of Correction; Rafael Moreno, 60, an electrical engineer with Consolidated Edison and a member of Community Board 3; Eric Haroldo Ruano, 42, a civil engineer with the city's Department of Environmental Protection, and Victor Hernandez, 44, a real-estate broker in Corona who ran unsuccessfully against Ms. Marshall once for the assembly seat. Ms. Marshall is also supported by Mayor David N. Dinkins; Mr. Bryer has been endorsed by the Majority Coalition for a New New York.
Still, as Hispanics emerged from the redistricting process a stronger majority, most agree that a real opportunity was created for a Hispanic to eventually win a Council seat. Congressman Thomas J. Manton, the Queens County Democratic leader, said the two-year target may be too optimistic. But he added that there is no doubt that Hispanic voters will play a larger and larger role in New York City elections at every level.
"By the end of the decade Hispanics are going to have a meteoric rise because you have a young population in all the boroughs that's going to explode," he said. "They're going to come into their own."
As the first stop for many immigrants, not only Colombians, Dominicans and other Hispanics but also Indians, Koreans and Chinese, many issues in District 21 have more to do with economics than with politics. Merchants complain about the competition from illegal street vendors. Longtime residents complain of illegal apartments popping up in single-family homes and car repair shops in residential garages and backyards. Jobs are scarce for newcomers and long-time residents.
 
A Slew of Languages
 The district includes a disparate collage of signs in various languages in the business district in Jackson Heights, tree-lined streets and elegant homes in East Elmhurst and Dominican and Italian neighborhoods in Corona, all flanked on the northeast by LaGuardia Airport, Shea Stadium and Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
Across the street from Ms. Marshall's office on Astoria Boulevard, for example, a billboard advertises jeans in Spanish.
Much of the impetus for the political activism, and for some of the Hispanic candidacies, is coming from the 1990 census, which showed that the number of Hispanics grew by 45 percent in the last 10 years. The redrawing of Council districts further galvanized Hispanics citywide and brought Hispanic leaders from neighborhoods and the borough together for the first time.
As they register voters at cultural festivals and mail letters to social clubs and civic organizations asking permission to address their members, Hispanic leaders in the district say they have reasons to expect that the community will fulfill its political potential. They point to the continued growth of the Hispanic population and the pressure sheer numbers will put on the Democratic Party to support Hispanic candidacies. There is also the nature of that population in District 21 -- Colombians, Ecuadorians, Peruvians and others, many of them small-business owners -- that could be a source of financing for future candidates.
 
Focus on Homeland
 A change in Colombia's constitution this year is also expected to have a major effect on District 21. William H. Salgado, a lawyer in Jackson Heights and president of the Federation of Colombian Organizations, said the new constitution allows those who become citizens of a foreign country to retain their Colombian nationality, therefore removing a main argument against United States citizenship and voter registration among Colombians in New York City. The metropolitan region's Colombian population is estimated at 450,000.
Many other Hispanics in the district remain focused on the homeland. Mr. Santos said he does not plan to return to the Dominican Republic and will probably become an American "one of these days." Mr. Santos recently complained that political candidates have never bothered to come to his neighborhood to explain what they can do for it.
"If they let themselves be known I would be more interested," he said. "And if they were Latinos, I'd be even more interested."
Ms. Marshall, who said she is running for the City Council because of her desire to use her legislative experience in the city, defended her candidacy in the overwhelmingly Hispanic district, saying she has represented the area as an assemblywoman and is best suited to continue representing it.
"How many times have white people represented me?" she asked. "What I try to go for is the best candidate.
"Eventually," she added, "we'll have Hispanic representation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen M. Marshall; Rev. Irvine A. Bryer Jr.; Rafael Moreno (pg. B4)
 
Graph: "The City Council Races 21st District" shows percentage of each race who are of voting-age and who are registered to vote (Source: City Districting Commission) (pg. B4)
 
Chart: "The City Council Races 21st District"
 
The Candidates
 Helen M. Marshall: (D, L) 62, State assemblywoman. Member of the Democratic National Committee, the Council of Black Elected Democrats of New York State, the New York State Assembly Puerto Rican/Hispanic Task Force and the East Elmhurst/Corona Civic Association.
 Rev. Irvine A. Bryer Jr.: 44, Pastor of the Corona Congregational Church. Member of the New York City Board of Correction, the East Elmhurst/Corona Civic Association and of the Corona-Flushing Meadow Park Corporation.
 Rafael Moreno: 60, electrical engineer with Consolidated Edison. Member of Community Board 3 and president of the 93d Street Block Association.
 Eric Haroldo Ruano: 42, civil engineer with the city's Department of Environmental Protection. Member of the Hispanic Queens Parade. Director of the Lions Club of Woodside's 5-mile marathon for charity.
 Victor Hernandez: 44, real estate broker, President of the Corona Community Civic Association.
 
Finger in the Wind
 Helen M. Marshall, who has represented the area included in District 21 as an assemblywoman for nine years, is generally seen as the front-runner because of name recognition. She is the Queens Democratic Party's candidate and has been endorsed by Mayor Dinkins. (pg. B4)
 
Map of Queens highlighting the 21st District (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC); JACKSON HEIGHTS (NYC); ELMHURST (NYC); CORONA (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; PRIMARIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITIES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ETHNICITY (60%); 

PERSON: MARSHALL, HELEN (ASSEMBLYWOMAN); NAVARRO, MIREYA ; BRYER, IRVINE A JR (REV); MORENO, RAFAEL; RUANO, ERIC HAROLDO; HERNANDEZ, VICTOR

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



107 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Three Tests of Soviet Survival

 BODY:
Can the Soviet Union survive? Its political leaders are straining to construct a new political association of independent republics. Great constitutional and human rights issues are at stake as delegates to a national congress pass on how to reshape their country. But the ultimate answer to survival will be economic: whether what one leader calls the "corpse" of the Soviet economic system can be brought to life.
Yes, political issues are paramount and will ultimately be settled on political grounds. And yes, the republics may eventually control their own economic affairs. But if their economies are to survive, the new constitution will have to embrace economic cooperation. 
 At the moment, the United States is frightened by economic output that's slipping by less than 2 percent; by present estimates, the Soviet economy this year will plunge by a sickening 20 percent. The Soviet republics have been intertwined for more than seven decades. Given the critical economic circumstances, it would be suicidal for them suddenly to go it alone.
There are three tests of economic survival. They do not require one political format or another, which leaves negotiators plenty of room for maneuver. But whatever political plan the Soviet congress adopts, the three tests will be unrelenting.
Free Flow of Goods. Under Communist control, production has become highly concentrated, with thousands of products supplied by a single enterprise. This invites trade wars -- as republics withhold supplies of natural resources or manufactured goods in an attempt to take advantage of neighboring republics. Before long, internal trade would collapse, punishing everyone.
What is needed is an absolute ban on internal tariffs, quotas or any other impediment to free flow of goods and services among regions. No such impediments prevail within the U.S.; nor will they exist after 1992 within the European Community. Free trade will prove even more important to the Soviet republics, because they rely on each other more than California depends upon Virginia or France upon Greece.
Tight Currency Controls. Sentiments in the Baltics and other separatist republics probably rule out a single currency controlled from Moscow. Instead, the breakaway republics will issue their own currencies. That would make monetary control difficult but manageable, under a system of convertible currencies.
These would exchange freely with each other and with key international currencies at stable, predictable rates. Convertible currencies permit exporters and importers to write contracts without undue worry. They also assure foreign investors, who can count on taking back profits in a usable currency. But such stability requires each republic to hold to a tight regime of non-inflationary growth of its money supply.
Protection of Private Contracts. Foreign investors and domestic savers alike must be protected against arbitrary confiscation of assets. That requires enforceable laws governing authority at the union and republic levels. Independence alone won't eliminate present bureaucratic nightmares. Indeed, new lines of authority could make these uncertainties worse.
These are the three essential economic conditions; there are more that would be desirable. Soviet citizens would be best served if they were free to migrate internally in search of good jobs and better living conditions. And the new central authority needs ironclad taxing authority to pay for national functions like defense, foreign policy and the environment.
But above all, the three core tests have to be met. Unless Soviet society can do so, there's no convincing basis for the West to provide financial assistance. And in any case, unless they cooperate, the republics won't survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%); GREECE (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%); GREECE (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; EDITORIALS; CURRENCY; CONTRACTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MONEY SUPPLY (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); TRENDS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



108 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: How to Make Medicaid Popular

BYLINE: By Stuart E. Eizenstat; Stuart E. Eizenstat, a Washington lawyer, was President Jimmy Carter's chief domestic policy adviser.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The dire problems of the Medicaid program reflect the lack of middle-class support for domestic programs for the poor. The solution -- becoming part of a universal health-care system in which the middle class has a stake -- can become a model of how to regain the public confidence necessary for further social advances.
Medicaid and Medicare were passed in 1965, at the height of Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society, to serve similar goals: extending health coverage to an underserved population, in Medicaid's case to poor people and for Medicare to all the elderly. 
 Medicare has largely fulfilled its promise. By providing coverage for virtually every person 65 years and over it has developed a strong and vocal middle-class constituency. Because it is financed and administered centrally by the Federal Government, Medicare benefits, management and cost controls are uniform and stable. Younger workers have an interest in protecting Medicare for the day they and their parents will become beneficiaries.
Medicaid, on the other hand, is a disaster from virtually every perspective. Its costs are out of control, imposing a rapidly growing burden on the Federal deficit. For states, which partially finance it and must live under balanced-budget constraints, it is the fastest growing expense. Medicaid began as a $1.6 billion program in 1966, grew to $12.6 billion by 1975 and $52 billion in 1988. By the next fiscal year, it will have more than doubled in four years, to more than $105 billion.
Yet only about four million more people are served by Medicaid, now 26 million, than were served in 1975, and the percentage of poor covered by Medicaid has actually dropped from 63 to about 50 percent -- compared with 96 percent of the elderly covered by Medicare.
Physicians stay in Medicare but are dropping out of Medicaid because of lengthy delays in payment and ridiculously low payment schedules. Medicaid pays physicians on the average only 69 percent of what Medicare would pay for common services, and in some states less than 40 percent. Medicaid averages only 57 percent of the market rate of reimbursement for a pediatrician; not surprisingly, the proportion of pediatricians who refuse to serve Medicaid patients jumped from 26 percent in 1979 to 39 percent in 1989.
The poor who are the supposed beneficiaries find a crazy quilt of eligibility standards depending on the state. Because Medicaid eligibility is tied to each state's welfare standards, which have failed to keep pace with inflation for some 20 years, 47 states failed to maintain inflation-adjusted benefit levels between 1970 and 1986. In a country that prides itself on fairness, a family of three in Alabama must earn less than $1,416 annually to qualify for Medicaid.
There are many causes of Medicaid's miseries. Its mixed nature, in which the Government contributes 50 percent to 80 percent of state costs but states set eligibility standards and administer their own programs, produces a lack of uniformity in eligibility and services and precludes efficiency or cost control. Its beneficiaries are poor and unorganized.
But at the core of Medicaid's failures is the loss of middle-class support for expanded programs for the poor. In times of economic health, like the 1960's, a middle-class consensus could be created for programs to benefit those below it on the social ladder. But in times of stagnating income, such as the U.S. has experienced for almost 20 years, this consensus erodes.
Social policy has stagnated in the Reagan-Bush era because of middle-class resentment of spending on the poor when many Americans have trouble keeping their own heads above water. This is compounded by the means testing of programs like Medicaid that excludes many deserving workers. Only Medicare provides universal access, and it remains the most popular Great Society program.
The absence of middle-class support for Medicaid has made the health of the poor dependent on a small group of dedicated members of Congress. They have been able to mandate that states cover all poor children under Medicaid by the year 2000. But these efforts have gone as far as they can without structural reforms to build more public support.
The solution to Medicaid's problems is to tie it to middle-class health benefits. The time is ripe for combining Medicaid and Medicare into a universally accessible national health care system. There is dissatisfaction with the current system: 19 million working adults and 10 million children in families headed by workers have no health coverage; insured workers worry that their coverage will not follow them to a new job; and soaring health care costs are eating into employers' profits. 
By combining broadened access and more uniform eligibility for Medicaid beneficiaries to universal health coverage and strict cost controls, middle-class support can be obtained at the same time for improved benefits for the poor.
States should still play a role. They can pay for acute care, with the Federal Government taking over costs for long-term care for the poor elderly.
Medicaid will only fulfill its promise if it is consolidated into a broader health care program. Likewise, education, job training, and other forms of Federal aid must be more universally accessible if they are to win the middle-class support needed to have a better educated, efficient and healthy work force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID; MEDICARE; PUBLIC OPINION MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PEDIATRICS (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); 

PERSON: EIZENSTAT, STUART E

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



109 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Safety of Queens Residents Finishes a Poor Second to Tennis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Two Aug. 18 articles concerned Flushing, Queens: one reported that New York City is dropping plans to build a large apartment house and commercial complex called Flushing Center, the other that a preservationist group opposes plans to expand the site of the United States Open tennis tournament in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park (sports pages). 
 Both show the callous attitude of our city's politicians toward the people of Queens.
The Flushing Center article quotes the city officials overseeing the project stating that it was not virulent community opposition that killed the project but the recession.
Mayor David N. Dinkins and the United States Tennis Association have persuaded the Federal Aviation Administration to divert La Guardia Airport's air traffic during the tournament's two weeks. I am surprised that the safety of those who live near the airport was never considered.
Approaches to La Guardia change during the year to reflect wind conditions. The approach over the tennis center is used in August and September because wind conditions dictate that this approach is the safest. Although the F.A.A. will argue that the rerouting is safe, it is not the safest route possible and jeopardizes those who live near the airport.
A recent "60 Minutes" segment indicates that La Guardia is considered by many pilots who land there to be particularly dangerous because of its short runways. The Mayor, the tennis association and the F.A.A. have decided that it is more important for Pete Sampras to serve in peace than for a jet carrying hundreds of people to land safely.
It is not a surprise that the association's plans for expanding the tennis center in Flushing Meadows have the blessing of the Mayor and Queens Borough President Claire Shulman. The Mayor's love of tennis and the well-heeled corporate crowd that supports and attends the Open is obviously greater than his love of the thousands of nonelite people of all races and economic classes who enjoy the park. Ms. Shulman, the inheritor of the Donald Manes power base, is obviously more enamored of the clubhouse than of a ballfield or two.
I grew up in Flushing and have used Flushing Meadows Park since before the 1964-65 World's Fair. The park is an oasis for those people living in the Flushing-Corona area. Softball, cricket and soccer coexist very nicely. People enjoy this park -- it has light and it has air. Now New York City plans to take a piece of that away.
 
LEONARD L. FLEISIG
New York, Aug. 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TENNIS CENTER UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (75%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TENNIS CENTER UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (75%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEENS (NYC); FLUSHING (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; AIRPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY TENNIS (94%); SPORTS (94%); AIRPORTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (78%); SOFTBALL (77%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); POLITICS (76%); AIRLINES (74%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); SOCCER (66%); 

PERSON: FLEISIG, LEONARD L PETE SAMPRAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



110 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Lives High on the Taxpayers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Lance Taylor's letter (Aug. 5) criticizing World Bank policy toward third-world countries omitted some reasons the poverty tycoons at the World Bank deserve to be maligned. One is the World Bank's serious consideration of private-sector loans as a major field for future activity. The institution's most recent annual World Economic Development Report encourages a new focus on promoting private production and trade in addition to sale of state-owned enterprises -- a policy the United States, as the bank's largest stockholder, has long demanded.
As a part of President Bush's new world order, the Treasury recently attempted, but was stymied in its efforts, to cajole the World Bank into diverting 50 percent of its lending capacity to private-sector loans. Nevertheless, Barber Conable, the lame-duck president of the institution, agreed to increase the tempo of loans made with the intention of "supporting" the private sector, as well as to consider diversion of World Bank resources, even though this would clearly violate its founding charter. 
 The fear among social activists is that the World Bank, by aiming its lending thrust at the private sector, which already has multiple sources for new-investment capital, would likely charge higher interest rates across the board, jeopardizing the ability of essential public-development projects to secure the low-interest loans they require.
An additional criticism is that the World Bank pays only lip service to environmental concerns. Its recent catch-up efforts to facilitate ecological advances, including "debt for nature" swaps, are laudable, but hardly enough. Relentless outside criticism over the destruction of tens of thousands of square miles of forests and wetlands as a result of misguided development projects has forced the institution to be more sensitive to these concerns. Its directors should give urgent priority to a recommendation to set aside a certain amount of World Bank resources for environmentally sound policies.
A final concern, which the World Bank has made only feeble efforts to address, is its bloated and overpaid bureaucracy. Until recently, all World Bank travel included first-class overseas flights and accommodations, with most of its consultants and staff receiving excessively high, tax-free salaries and benefits, and also enjoying overgenerous pension plans. American taxpayers underwrote nearly one-third of these costs.
The minimal efforts the World Bank has made at reform, which include a switch to business class on some flights (saving $15 million a year) and a requirement that expenses be monitored more closely, have produced grumbles and self-serving talk of low morale among a staff that has been spoiled into self-indulgence in its personal, financial and comfort expectations.
The World Bank also recently voted a $60,000 pay increase for its president, raising his salary to an excessive $285,000 yearly, and an increase in staff salary ceilings by $36,000 to $190,000. Board members had no qualms about giving such raises because they are just spending the international taxpayers' money, and they feel they are worth it.
Those at the World Bank would do well to accept a hint of self-sacrifice in their professional lives, rather than marauding as if they were partners in some great Hanseatic banking house.
 
JOSHUA S. LEVENBERG
Research Associate
Council on Hemispheric Affairs
Washington, Aug. 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (95%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); WETLANDS (64%); 

PERSON: LEVENBERG, JOSHUA S GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991



111 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:
Debt
 
* Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, plans to announce today the interest rate for $650 million in seven-year debentures due Sept. 10, 1998. 

 
* Maine State Housing Authority is offering $17.8 million in tax-exempt single-family mortgage acquisition bonds tentatively priced to yield a maximum 7.15 percent for an issue due 2021 through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Co. Yields on serial bonds range from 6.05 percent in 1997 to 6.6 percent in 2002, with yields on longer maturities at 6.9 percent in 2006 and 7.1 percent in 2011. Underwriters expect the issue to be rated double-A by both Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corp.
 
* Medco Containment Services Inc., Montvale, N.J., has privately placed $100 million in convertible subordinated debentures due 2001 with Kidder, Peabody.
 
Common Stock
 
* Shaw Industries, Dalton, Ga., has filed for a public offering of 3.7 million shares through Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (70%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (70%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (70%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MAINE, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (88%); COMMON STOCK (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



112 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Mercedes Cutting Work Force in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Mercedes-Benz of North America Inc., the United States subsidiary of the German automobile maker, is cutting its work force by 7 percent. The company, based in Montvale, N.J., said the reduction of 113 employees would mostly take place at its headquarters, where jobs have become duplicated by regional staffs as part of a eorganization announced last year. The company also cited lower sales because of the recession and the luxury tax that took effect Jan. 1. 
 Mercedes sales through the first seven months of this year were down 22.1 percent, to 33,176 cars, compared with a 13.4 percent decrease for the entire industry. After the cuts, Mercedes-Benz of North America will have about 1,350 employees nationwide, including 570 in Montvale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ AG MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCEDES-BENZ AG

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR LABOR FORCE (91%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



113 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Little Movement in Dollar; Gold Prices Rise Modestly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar closed unchanged to lower in an uneventful foreign-exchange session yesterday, as traders awaited tomorrow's release of the August employment figures.
Gold prices rose modestly. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $348.50 an ounce, up 20 cents from late Tuesday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $348.85 an ounce, up 95 cents. 
 Although several recent reports have pointed to growth in the American economy, currency traders said the market appeared to be concerned that the employment data would be weak. That could prompt the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates, which could erode the value of the dollar relative to other currencies.
"People choose what they want to pay attention to, and the employment number seems to be the one," said Christopher Bourdain, a currency trader with Credit Suisse in New York.
He said he had been astounded that the currency markets had shown remarkably little concern about the turmoil in the Soviet Union. The German mark, which many assumed would be hurt by Germany's close economic ties to the Soviet Union, has held its own in recent days.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 135.85 yen, down 0.55 yen from Tuesday's finish. Later, in London, the dollar bought 135.45 yen, and in New York, the dollar was quoted at 135.50 yen, down from 135.80.
In Europe, the dollar bought 1.7365 German marks, down from 1.7395. In New York, the dollar remained unchanged from late Tuesday at 1.7365 marks.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.694, from $1.692 late Tuesday. In New York, the pound cost $1.695, unchanged from late Tuesday.
Other late New York dollar quotes, compared with Tuesday's prices, included: 1.5240 Swiss francs, up from 1.5225; 5.8995 French francs, down from 5.9005; 1,295.00 Italian lire, down from 1,295.75, and 1.1419 Canadian dollars, up from 1.14145.
On the Comex, silver fell to $3.904 an ounce, from $3.905 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BRITISH POUND (75%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



114 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Bankruptcies Keep Rising

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
A record one million American consumers and businesses will likely file for bankruptcy this year, with the heaviest filings expected in New England, the American Bankruptcy Institute said today.
"The number of bankruptcies is increasing in an unbroken line and at a record pace," said Samuel J. Gerdano, executive director of the institute, a nonprofit group whose members include lawyers, accountants and other bankruptcy experts. 
 There were 880,399 bankruptcies in the 12 months that ended June 30, up 21 percent from a year earlier. Ninety-two percent of the filings were from individuals, the rest from businesses.
Mr. Gerdano said the pace of filings for the rest of this year should bring bankruptcies for 1991 to one million.
The biggest increases in the most recent 12-month period came in New England, the region hardest hit by the recession that began last summer. Filings rose 86 percent in New Hampshire, 77 percent in Massachusetts and 59 percent in Connecticut.
Mr. Gerdano said the recession had clearly contributed to the increase, but he added that filings had risen even in years when the economy was expanding. They rose 13 percent nationally in the 12 months ended June 30, 1990, and 8 percent in the 12 months before that.
"The ultimate cause is the level of personal debt," he said, adding that consumers total debt including home mortgages, represented 62 percent of their disposable personal income in 1983 compared with 83 percent in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; FORECASTS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



115 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Food Experts to Study Soviet Distribution System

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Two teams of agricultural experts ordered to the Soviet Union by President Bush this week will be led by Department of Agriculture officials concerned that the distribution of food there may be as much a problem as food supply.
The findings of the two teams will influence how the United States, Japan and Western Europe handle the possibility of food shortages and perhaps civil disorder in the Soviet Union this winter. One of the main issues is how the industrialized democracies should balance food shipments to the Soviet Union with technical assistance to improve the transportation and sale of food produced there. 
 President Bush said on Monday that he was sending Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan and Richard T. Crowder, the Under Secretary of Agriculture for international affairs and commodity programs, to provide advice on food distribution, to predict whether the Soviet Union will face shortages this winter and to propose solutions if shortages appeared likely. Coincidentally, both men worked in transportation before joining the Government.
Mr. Crowder will leave within several days to head the first team on a 10-day tour of Soviet regions with large food deficits and surpluses.
 
Similar Mission in May
 A similar mission that Mr. Crowder headed in May concluded in a report released last month that "Soviet agriculture produces on a per-capita basis sufficient food to feed the country's population." The production of meat and grain per person matched that of Western Europe, while potato production per person exceeded that in the United States and in all but one of the 12 member nations of the European Community. But the report added, "The loss of 30 to 50 percent of certain food commodities between field and table highlights the fact that distribution, more than production, is at the heart of the U.S.S.R.'s food problem."
Mr. Madigan will lead a group of Administration and private experts late this month or in early October. "We hope to be taking transportation experts, people familiar with the efficient operation of railroads, the efficient dispatching of trucks and other types of vehicles," Mr. Madigan told reporters at a news conference on Tuesday.
But Mr. Madigan also expressed concern about the likelihood of a small Soviet harvest this year and held out the possibility of direct food shipments. Transportation problems created local shortages last year, even with a record harvest, so there are fears that a smaller harvest this year might result in worse shortages regardless of whether Soviet republics with food surpluses ship their excess to republics facing shortages, Mr. Madigan said.
The interest in transportation and distribution problems may partly reflect the backgrounds of Mr. Madigan and Mr. Crowder. Mr. Madigan used to own the Yellow-Lincoln Taxi Company in Illinois. Mr. Crowder specialized in transportation issues during his two decades as an economist and then as an executive at several large American food processing companies before he was appointed under secretary in 1989.
 
Logistics and Economics
 Carol G. Brookins, the president of World Perspectives Inc., a Washington-based agriculture consulting firm, said the emphasis on logistics was fair in the case of the Soviet Union. In most years, "they would probably have few import needs if they could handle their logistical situation better," said Ms. Brookins, who spent last week in Moscow.
F. Paul Dickerson, the general sales manager of the Agriculture Department's Foreign Agricultural Service and a member of the mission in May, said that team visited a railroad yard, collective farms, a poultry processing factory, bakeries, various stores and even a dock for barges in Kiev. "We went to just about every segment of the food production chain," he said.
Distribution rather than supply was the problem last winter, Mr. Dickerson said, but too little information was available to conclude whether that would be the case this winter with a smaller harvest.
The report from the earlier mission also highlighted the effects of hoarding and the implications of Soviet officials' poor understanding of economics. Consumers who did not hoard last winter suffered, while large quantities of the hoarded food appeared to have gone bad in at least one city.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan, who will lead a team of experts to the Soviet Union. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; JAPAN; EUROPE UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; FOREIGN AID; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SHORTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RIOTS (71%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



116 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Electronics Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 4

 BODY:
European governments are stepping up efforts to rescue the Continent's beleaguered electronics industry. They fear that further deterioration could leave Europe hopelessly behind Japan and the United States, not only in electronics but also in automobiles, aerospace and the many other industries that depend on electronic components.
In sharp contrast to Washington's hands-off approach to the United States' electronics industry, the European Community and several national governments are spending billions of dollars to buttress the Continent's computer and semiconductor manufacturers. 
 Acknowledging that Europe already lags well behind the United States and Japan in electronics, European officials are straining to help the Continent catch up. To that end they are financing research, pressing small semiconductor companies to merge, and rejiggering broadcast rules to help European producers compete in developing the next generation of television sets.
Such efforts are an attempt in part to alleviate the problems of Europe's computer industry, in which European producers have just one-third of the Continent's $60 billion computer market and are inconsequential in the supercomputer and microprocessor markets. Three of Europe's leading computer makers, Groupe Bull of France, Siemens-Nixdorf Information Systems of Germany and Philips Electronics of the Netherlands, have posted huge losses and laid off thousands of computer workers in the last two years.
France has taken the lead in Europe's interventionist efforts, with the Government providing $700 million in capital for the state-owned Groupe Bull and giving it an additional $400 million for research.
European officials feel a sense of urgency because several electronics companies have virtually collapsed -- like Nixdorf, before it was acquired last year by Siemens -- and others have been driven into foreign hands. Officials are also distressed over Europe's $40 billion annual trade deficit in electronics.
"It's one minute to midnight for Europe's electronics industry," said Robert R. Heikes, an electronics consultant and former head of the European operations of the National Semiconductor Corporation of the United States. "Europe is facing an utter disaster on information technology overall."
European electronics executives say they want to avoid what happened to America's consumer electronics companies, which are now almost all foreign owned. Indeed, some American executives, seeing how Japan's semiconductor giants almost dominate the world, say laissez-faire Washington could learn a few lessons from Europe.
 
Slim Share in Semiconductors
 The Continent's semiconductor companies have just 10 percent of the world market, compared with American companies, which have nearly 40 percent, and the Japanese, which control slightly more than half the market. Indeed, some European microchip executives say their companies are too small to survive against Japanese chip makers with five times their revenues.
In July Philips agreed to sell control of its troubled computer division to the Digital Equipment Corporation, based in Maynard, Mass. But what has truly alarmed European officials is that Britain's largest computer maker, International Computers Ltd., and Scandinavia's largest computer producer, Nokia Data, have each agreed to be taken over by Fujitsu, Japan's No. 1 computer company.
Many European officials are uneasy about such large, respected companies linking with the Japanese. They fear the Japanese will turn the companies into empty shells that may sell products that bear their nameplates but are really manufactured back in Japan.
In contrast to their attitude toward Japan, however, European officials often treat I.B.M. and other American companies with a long-established presence on the Continent as local companies. Seeing European-American alliances as a way to counter the Japanese, many European officials applauded when I.B.M. and Siemens announced they would collaborate to produce 16-megabit computer chips.
 
Europeans Urged to Cooperate
 At the same time, European officials urge European companies to cooperate with each other in such ways as pooling research funds. Filippo Maria Pandolfi, the European Community's technology comissioner, said he hoped that Bull, Siemens and Ing. C. Olivetti & Company, the Italian computer maker, could solve their problems without throwing themselves into Japanese or other foreign arms.
But some experts fault European officials for fretting about Japanese ownership and alliances. They say one of the best ways to strengthen the Continent's electronics industry would be to encourage links with the Japanese to help bring their expertise and job-creating investments to Europe.
"It's counterproductive in the long run to protect European ownership," said Alan Cawson, a political scientist at the University of Sussex in England. "We ought to encourage firms that invest in Europe, and we should look at to what extent they bring manufacturing, research and design jobs."
But Europe's arms makers, echoing the Pentagon, say it would be unwise to depend on Japanese chip makers. The Continent's computer and consumer electronics companies agree. They fear that if they depend on Japanese chip makers, they might get squeezed by a shortage or the Japanese will jack up chip prices -- in either case making it harder for European companies to compete with their Japanese counterparts.
 
Debate Over Extent of Aid
 European governments are divided over how much they should intervene to bolster the industry. France is aggressive, while the more laissez-faire Britain, with its close ties to Japanese industry, favors having electronics companies fend for themselves.
After a long debate, the European Commission, the community's executive branch, has adopted a compromise policy that tells the industry not to depend solely on government subsidies for its survival.
"The main responsibility is with the companies," said Mr. Pandolfi, the technology commissioner. "I am not in favor of a dirigiste approach."
Although the community's industrial policy on electronics is far more aggressive than Washington's, many European industry officials say the community is still not doing nearly enough. "What they have done is just a first step," said Francis Lorentz, Bull's chairman.
Some industry officials say the community needs to spend $100 billion over the next decade to insure the survival of Europe's electronics industry, including semiconductors, computers and telecommunications. The money would pay for research and new factories, as well as unemployment and retraining benefits for workers laid off as the industry restructures.
Some electronics officials say it would take $10 billion to preserve Europe's semiconductor industry alone.
While some government officials ridicule these proposals, supporters of government aid say $100 billion is not outlandish, considering that the community's taxpayers and consumers subsidize Europe's farmers by more than $100 billion each year.
"Europe could be in a much stronger postion in 10 years," said Mr. Heikes, the electronics consultant. "The question is how do you get the political agreement to do that."
 
Following Japan's Example
 But some industry analysts say that all the government aid so far has done little good. For more than 20 years, for example, France has nurtured its computer industry. Yet Bull, its national computer champion, is in desperate condition, having lost $1.2 billion last year.
While acknowledging some mistakes, European officials say that if Japan's Government was able to help build the foundation for the stunning success of that nation's electronics industry, then European governments should be able to do likewise.
The community has contributed more than $500 million for research on new generations of computer chips by a consortium called Joint European Submicron Silicon, known as Jessi. France, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands have together kicked in a similar amount for Jessi. There are also government-backed research projects on data transmission and computer-aided manufacturing.
 
A Community 'Nervous System'
 The community plans to develop a "European Nervous System" that would connect government computers in the 12 community nations to transfer data about everything from taxes to pollution levels. This network aims to increase spending on computers and foster standardization for Europe's often clashing computer makers. Such a network could cost more than $10 billion to develop.
Mr. Pandolfi, the technology commissioner, is pushing Siemens, Philips and the Italian-French manufacturer SGS-Thomson Microelectronics to merge their semiconductor operations so Europe will have a chip company large enough to compete with NEC, Toshiba and Japan's other powerhouses. But Siemens and Philips are resisting because they fear a merger will mean culture clashes, large layoffs and hefty restructuring costs.
And in response to pleas from Europe's consumer electronics giants, Thomson and Philips, the community rejected Japan's broadcasting standard for high-definition television, or HDTV, which promises to display pictures with movie-like sharpness. Instead, Brussels adopted a European standard, and the community and the French and Dutch Governments have contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to develop a European HDTV system.
But whether Europe's various electronics investments will pay off remains open to debate. In HDTV, for instance, the community has bet on a system that many engineers say has already been overtaken technologically by a digitalized television system developed in the United States. And despite Jessi's grandiose research goals, community officials acknowledge that Europe's semiconductor race is being hampered because too little money has been sprinkled on too many projects.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Leaders in the worldwide computer market, based on revenues from manufacturing, in billions of dollars.

 	 	IBM	$31.7	NEC	6.4	Digital Equipment	5.8	Apple	4.3	Hewlett-Packard	4.2	Fujitsu	3.6	Groupe Bell	3.3	Unisys	3.3	Compaq	3.0	Manufacturing revenues of other	 		 	computer makers total $53.7 billion.	
 
Worldwide semiconductor market share by manufacturing revenues, in percent.

 	 	NEC	8.4%	Toshiba	8.3	Hitachi	6.7	Motoroloa	6.3	Intel	5.4	Fujitsu	4.9	Texas Instruments	4.4	Mitsubishi	4.0	Philips	3.5	Manufacturing revenues of other	 		 	semiconductor maker total 48.1 percent	of the market.	 	
 
(Source: Dataquest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (92%); SIN (SWX) (91%); SIE (LSE) (91%); SIE (FRA) (91%); SIE (BIT) (91%); SI (NYSE) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (60%); PHIA (BIT) (55%); PHIA (AMS) (55%); PHG (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (92%); SIEMENS AG (91%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (60%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; ELECTRONICS ELECTRONICS (92%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (75%); MICROPROCESSORS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



117 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Down in Thin Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in very thin trading yesterday, as credit market participants settled down to wait for August employment data, expected to be released tomorrow morning.
"The market is basically in equilibrium, waiting for the numbers," one government bond trader said. "I don't see people with any need to do anything between now and then." 
 In advance of the employment report, most market participants seem to be anticipating that the figures will reflect that economic conditions remained sluggish last month, and that the Federal Reserve Board will move to lower short-term interest rates shortly after the data are released.
 
Looking to Fed Action
 "Most people are looking for a Fed easing shortly after the number," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc.
Mr. Moran said he did not include himself in the majority.
"I am of the view that the employment report will be reasonably good for the economy, and not for the bond market," he said.
Business was so slow yesterday that traders said much of the session was spent watching televised testimony in the Congressional inquiry into the Salomon Brothers scandal.
Using price movements as a yardstick, yesterday's testimony had little effect on the market participants.
Since Salomon's admission on Aug. 9 that it had placed illegal bids at four separate auctions of Treasury securities, traders have worried that the regulatory response would lead to greater inefficiency in the auction system.
 
30-Year Bonds Down to 8.05%
 In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the decline in prices yesterday left most securities at almost exactly the level they were early Tuesday, the first day of trading after the Labor Day holiday.
By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent 30-year Treasury bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 100 25/32, down by 6/32, to yield 8.05 percent, compared with 8.03 percent late Tuesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 15/32, down by an eighth of a point, to yield 7.80 percent. And the 6 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 5/32, unchanged on the day, to yield 6.29 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 5.31 percent late yesterday, down a basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late-offered rate of 5.36 percent.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, Lehman Brothers acted as lead manager on a $130 million, three-part offering of student loan revenue bonds for the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency.
The maximum yield was 8.405 percent on $65 million in residual interest bonds that mature on Sept. 1, 2026.
All three parts of the offering are subject to the Internal Revenue Service's alternative minimum tax provisions. The issue, insured by the Ambac Indemnity Corporation, is rated AAA by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In a development that could have significant implications for the handful of firms that provide bond insurance, Fitch Investors Service Inc., a ratings agency that is stepping up efforts to take market share from Moody's and Standard & Poor's, said yesterday that it had toughened its standards for rating the ability of bond insurers to pay claims arising from defaults.
In making the announcement, Fitch said it had given an AAA rating to the $117 billion in outstanding interest and principal insured by the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the GE Credit Corporation.
Currently, Moody's and S.& P. have assigned an AAA rating to all bond insurance companies. Without an AAA rating, bond insurers would almost certainly see investor confidence in the securities they insure sag.
Mark H. S. Cohen, a Fitch managing director, said that when measured against his firm's new ratings standards, some insurers would not be able to qualify for an AAA rating.
"At this stage, it is very clear that some insurers would have to do something to materially alter their financial position in order to qualify for a AAA rating from us," he said.
Mr. Cohen said he was "not sure" Financial Guaranty would have qualified for an AAA rating without its relationship to General Electric.
"It is not possible to analyze a bond insurer without looking at the ownership pedigree," he said.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, traders said that prices of most widely quoted issues dipped by about an eighth of a point in light trading.
In corporate bonds, traders said prices of most issues fell by an eighth of a point to a quarter of a point, also in slow trading.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates from May-Sept. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); US LABOR DAY (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TAX LAW (66%); SCHOOL BONDS (61%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



118 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Union Pacific Sets Charge For Cutbacks

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
The Union Pacific Corporation said yesterday that it had taken a special after-tax charge of $575 million to offset the cost of reductions of the size of crews on its freight trains.
The charge, which will bring big improvements in productivity, is mostly for severance pay for brakemen who will be eliminated on trains that will now have a crew of two instead of three. 
 Richard Davidson, the president of the company's Union Pacific Railroad unit, said 2,000 to 3,000 jobs were expected to be cut from its work force of 29,000, which has been vastly reduced in the last five years.
Union Pacific has diversified into trucking by buying the Overnite trucking company. Its Union Pacific Resources unit produces oil and natural gas and is now a leading producer among the nation's l5 independent oil and gas companies. Its core business, however, remains the railroad, which has had four years of record earnings as a result of savings from labor and new technology that has allowed it to respond more quickly to customers.
The company also said its board had approved a 2-for-1 stock split and an increase from $1.36 a share to $2.72 a share in the annual dividend.
Freight railroads are benefiting from a finding issued last July by a Presidential Emergency Board. Since then most rail unions have agreed to binding arbitration as a way to help reach new contracts.
The board has recommended further reduction in the size of train crews and some changes in work rules that, for example, would allow railroads to use yard workers to do some of the jobs of road crews.
Most railroads have already put through significant reductions in manning of trains resulting in big savings in labor costs.
Union Pacific said that in the last five years, labor productivity as measured in gross-ton-miles per employee has increased by 80 percent.
"The productivity improvements have been astounding in the last several years," said Graeme Lidgerwood, a rail analyst for First Boston.
The company, which has most of its operations in the West, said 85 percent of the special charge, or $492 million, would apply to the railroad subsidiary.
The remaining $83 million will apply to reorganization of the parent company, which has its headquarters in Bethlehem, Pa., and the Union Pacifc Resources and Overnite Transporation subsidiaries.
The railroad also said it would sell, lease or abandon 7,100 miles of its light-density lines. Its total system has 21,000 miles of track.
Much of the trackage is expected to be sold or leased, which will enable the railroad to still serve its customers but have the tracks maintained by others.
"These actions reaffirm our continued confidence in the growth of Union Pacific," Drew Lewis, the chairman of the Union Pacific Corporation, said. "As the economy recovers, we are poised for strong earning gains."
Ms. Lidgerwood said that with new technology, special through trains could be manned by an engineer and conductor without a brakeman.
She said the displaced workers would be put on an a reserve list. As traffic grows, some will be called back and assigned to new trains.
The stock split for shareholders of record as of Sept. 16, will be in the form of a dividend payable on Oct. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (98%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP UNION PACIFIC CORP (98%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION PACIFIC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; DIVIDENDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) RAIL FREIGHT (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRUCKING (90%); TRAINS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NATURAL GAS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); STOCK SPLITS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS RICHARD K DAVIDSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



119 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Browning-Ferris Unnerves Wall St.

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder

 BODY:
BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES, the nation's second-largest waste-disposal company, has frequently seemed more prone to burying its stock price than garbage in recent years. The company's latest unpleasant news for Wall Street was Tuesday's announcement that earnings in the current quarter -- the last of its fiscal year ending Sept. 30 -- will be down as much as 25 percent from its disappointing third-quarter result of $58.9 million, or 38 cents a share.
Investors responded by hammering the price of Browning-Ferris on the New York Stock Exchange, driving the shares down $4 on Tuesday and lopping off $1.25 more yesterday, to $20.50. It was the most active stock on the Big Board, with 3.8 million shares traded. No one was mollified by the announcement yesterday that the quarterly dividend would remain at 17 cents a share. 
 Adding to the sour taste surrounding the dismal profits projection was the disclosure in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that R. John Stanton Jr., the company's chief financial officer, had sold 60,000 common shares, or almost half of his shares, for $27.61 a share on Aug. 12.
For the first time, there are rumblings among analysts that investors would welcome the dismissal of the company's chairman and chief executive, William D. Ruckelshaus, the former head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Mr. Ruckelshaus was hired in 1988 as part of an effort by the Houston-based company to overcome a legacy of troubled relations with state and Federal regulators. The company's accumulated violations had led to stiff fines, forced closings of disposal sites and a reluctance by some regulators to allow permits to open new sites or expand existing ones. Analysts say Browning-Ferris may indeed be making some progress on improving its reputation with regulators, but they say its performance in the last two years suggests a variety of other deep-seated management problems that Mr. Ruckelshaus and his team have yet to confront.
"Clearly, there is something besides the economy -- something internal -- that's causing problems," said Vishnu Swarup, who follows environmental stocks for Prudential Securities. On Tuesday, Mr. Swarup changed his recommendation on the stock from buy to sell. He had projected in July that the stock could rise as high as $31 by next summer. He now expects it to be trading at $18 to $22 next spring.
Analysts are quick to concede that Browning-Ferris has been operating in an unforgiving regulatory and economic environment recently. Nearly 60 percent of its business comes from commercial and industrial waste disposers. These big customers are generating less waste as a result of the recession, more efficient production techniques and recycling. The slowdown has also added to competition from other disposal companies.
But analysts say the general explanations that were once grudgingly accepted on Wall Street are now regarded more skeptically. "People sense now that management doesn't have a good feel for what the problems are," said Barry A. Mannis, who follows environmental stocks for Morgan Stanley & Company. "I'm not sure that's fair. But if they do have an idea, they haven't explained it well."
Several analysts chided the company for its reluctance to talk more about the performance of specific operations and specific regions, and to be clearer about its strategy for dealing with its problems. "The reasons given for every ratcheting down of expectations is always general," said Stephen L. Schweich of Alex. Brown & Sons in Baltimore. "It doesn't compute."
Fletcher Thorne-Thomsen Jr., Browning-Ferris's vice president in charge of investor relations, defended the speed and level of detail of the company's reporting. "The only way you get investor confidence back is with performance," he said.
Skepticism about Browning-Ferris has been heightened because a number of other waste-disposal companies seem to have been much less affected by the economic downturn. "Chambers Development, Mid-American and Wheelabrator are all doing great," said James D. MacDonald at the Chicago Corporation. And although Waste Management Inc., the nation's largest waste disposal company, has shown some modest negative impact from economic conditions, Mr. MacDonald rates that company a buy because it has "top-quality management, much more diversity and much more sophistication than Browning-Ferris."
Waste Management's shares were hurt by Browning-Ferris's woes. They fell $1.50 on Tuesday and another 50 cents yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, finishing at $37.50. But the fate of the two stocks is gradually becoming decoupled, Mr. Mannis said. Waste Management is now trading at a multiple of 24 times earnings, a substantial premium over the market average, and Browning-Ferris at a multiple of less than 16, below the market average.
Having peaked at more than $48 a share nearly 14 months ago, Browning-Ferris shares have now fallen so far that some analysts believe they are at or near their bottom. The shares had tumbled as far as $20 in January. "We have been getting a lot of inquiries from value-oriented investors," said Kenneth Leung, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, who is recommending that investors buy the stock. Browning-Ferris Industries Wheelabrator Technologies Mid-American Waste Systems

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (84%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (84%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (84%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (54%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES INC REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES INC SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); TEXAS, USA (54%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; RUCKELSHAUS, WILLIAM D WILLIAM D RUCKELSHAUS (68%); JOHN W STANTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



120 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Third World Ecology Investments Sought

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Armed with Federal loan guarantees, a private partnership is seeking investors for third world business ventures with environmental goals that are as green as a dollar bill.
But the program is getting a skeptical reception from some environmental groups, who view it with the same suspicion they have long directed toward international corporations and development agencies. 
 The partnership, the International Environmental Investment Fund, is to be jointly managed by the investment bank Kidder, Peabody & Company and the consulting group Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc. It was set up recently with the backing of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a Federal agency that tries to stimulate American exports by providing financing and insurance for international development projects.
 
A New Approach
 Providing backing for an investment fund is a new approach for the agency, which is also supporting three regional funds to promote development in Africa, Eastern Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
The environmental fund's aim is to give private investors competitive returns in a fund that sponsors projects like renewable energy production, sustainable agriculture and forestry, pollution control and ecologically oriented tourism.
The fund's initial capital of $100 million will consist of $60 million in equity put up by limited partners and $40 million borrowed with an OPIC guarantee of repayment. The minimum investment for a limited partner is $5 million. The fund is expected to attract large institutional investors like pension funds and university endowments that are seeking to put some of their money into "socially conscious" investments.
Private companies and government agencies have begun to embrace environmentalism as a goal of international business. One sign of the trend is a meeting sponsored by OPIC, the United Nations and the World Bank on Thursday and Friday at the Plaza Hotel in New York, where more than a hundred speakers will address environmental investments.
But leading environmental organizations are raising concerns about the OPIC fund's environmental credentials. They say the fund's sponsors have done nothing to guarantee that the projects it sponsors -- which have not yet been chosen -- will meet environmental standards.
"I have a feeling that what we have got here is OPIC trying to put a green cloak over a standard investment fund," said Lawrence F. Williams, director of international programs for the Sierra Club in Washington. "At this point, I would urge the investor to be very cautious."
 
Access to Experts
 Lawyers and managers at OPIC said in interviews that they would strictly supervise the fund's investments. They said they had access to experts who for years had helped the agency review the environmental effects of its activities.
"We met directly with the entire alphabet soup of environmental organizations in this town," said Harvey A. Himberg, OPIC's director of environmental affairs. "We had the benefit of a lot of input from the environmental community."
But OPIC's executive vice president, James D. Berg, in a letter sent last week to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who had questioned the fund's environmental standards, offered no concrete guidelines on how the fund would select projects or solicit public comments.
"Determinations of sound environmental practice will be made on a case-by-case basis, using accepted definitions of sustainable development in each of the sectors in which the fund proposes to invest," the letter said. "As a private investment company with private-sector clients, the fund of necessity will be constrained with respect to public disclosure of potential investments before fund resources are committed."
Mr. Williams of the Sierra Club said that was not enough. "Basically, it boils down to, 'Trust us,' " he said.
 
Outside Input Suggested
 Paul Weatherly, an expert in environmental investing whose company, Resource Management Consultants, has been working for a number of environmental groups monitoring the fund, said that OPIC should establish an independent group to have input into selecting the investment projects.
But Robert O. Draggon, OPIC's vice president for finance, compared this demand to "a Good Housekeeping seal of approval," and said, "The private sector just doesn't work that way."
Howard L. Hills, OPIC's general counsel, said a large part of OPIC's mission was to bridge the gap between the financial community and the green movement. But he said it sometimes seemed easier to get the financial community interested in environmental projects than to get the environmental groups interested in the necessities of the marketplace.
"If we just make bankers environmentalists, then we have failed," he said. "We also have to get the environmentalists to be responsive to the market forces that are going to be benefiting the environment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT FUND BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (83%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (72%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (71%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (76%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT FUND OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (76%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ETHICAL INVESTING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); TRENDS (75%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (73%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



121 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Nordstrom Opens Bank for Its Credit Cards

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Nordstrom Inc., the Seattle-based specialty retailer, opened a nationally chartered bank Tuesday to issue and service its credit cards. The move will exempt the company from state limits on finance charges for consumer credit.
The creation of the Nordstrom National Credit Bank in Englewood, Colo., a limited-charter bank with no checking or savings operations, allows Nordstrom to standardize its credit operations nationally without having to negotiate the thicket of state regulations governing consumer credit. 
 "We don't see any rate-structure change in the foreseeable future, but it could be considered a defensive strategy to protect us from state legislative decisions to impose limitations on finance charges," said John C. Walgamott, the bank's president and chief executive. "Any national retailer has to do this to remain competitive."
 
Industrywide Trend
 As more states have put ceilings on finance charges, retailers have begun establishing card-issuing banks in states with few or no restrictions on finance charges.
With a card issued by a bank, a retailer can take advantage of Federal court rulings that permit a bank to charge customers in all states the maximum interest rate allowed in the state where the bank is based.
For example, interest rates are capped in Connecticut, but a consumer there who holds a credit card issued by a bank based in Delaware, which has no ceiling on finance charges, must pay whatever rate the Delaware bank sets.
Kurt T. Peters, editor of Faulkner & Gray Inc.'s Credit Card News, a trade newsletter, said that slightly more than half the states had placed limits on interest rates. But there are liberal usury laws in several states, including Colorado, where Nordstrom put its bank, and Arizona, the home of the bank set up by Dillard Department Stores Inc.
"There are not a lot of retailers doing it yet, but a number of significant ones like the Limited and Dillards have begun setting them up," Mr. Peters said of the banks. "They're doing it to avoid the rate caps that some states have established."
Dillard, based in Little Rock, Ark., set up its bank in Phoenix when Arkansas voters defeated a proposal that would have allowed interest rates in the state to climb to 17 percent.
"The advantage to retailers is in the standardization," said Walter F. Loeb, president of Loeb Associates Inc., a retail consulting company in New York. "For a national company,it makes a lot of sense."
Spencer Nilson, publisher of The Nilson Report, a credit card industry newsletter, said department and specialty stores must charge an average of 22 percent interest on their credit cards to break even because they do not charge annual fees for their charge cards.
A sizable number of customers pay their bills in full each month and avoid interest charges. Because stores do not charge an annual card fee, they do not have a guaranteed source of revenue to offset the expense of administering their cards, and that, they say, is why they need high interest rates.
Mr. Walgamott said holders of Nordstrom cards would not notice any changes in the payment and collection of their bills, but would receive letters telling them their accounts had been transferred to the bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (94%); DL7A (FRA) (81%); DDS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (53%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC; NORDSTROM NATIONAL CREDIT BANK NORDSTROM INC (94%); DILLARD'S INC (81%); FAULKNER & GRAY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC; NORDSTROM NATIONAL CREDIT BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (53%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; BANKS AND BANKING CREDIT CARDS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); BANKING LAW (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



122 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Fund Yields Are Mixed in Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were mixed for the second consecutive week in the period that ended yesterday.
Tax-exempt money fund yields moved up in the week because of a combination of more supply and less demand, as investors shifted to the higher yields offered in longer-term investments. 
 The seven-day compounded average yield of tax-exempt funds followed by Donoghue rose 7 basis points in the week, to 4.19 percent, with the simple yield up 8 basis points, to 4.11 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The average 30-day compounded yield of tax-exempt funds rose a basis point in the week, to 4.11 percent, and the simple yield was up similarly, to 4.02 percent.
 
Longer Maturities
 Donoghue said the average number of days to maturity of securities in money-market portfolios rose by two days, to 59. Donoghue's analysts said the increase indicated that managers did not expect a rise in interest rates and were extending their holdings to longer maturities for higher returns.
"This Friday's employment numbers, if weaker than expected, could probably cause the Fed to lower short-term rates further via the Federal funds rate and discount rate," said Walter S. Frank, Donoghue's chief economist.
Analysts said that if that happened, investors could expect further weakening in the yields of money market funds.
Donoghue said total assets of tax-exempt funds for the week fell by $1.1 billion, to $86.6 billion.
 
Taxable Equivalents
 For investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, the taxable rate equivalent to the week's average seven-day tax-exempt compounded yield was 5.89 percent, while the equivalent in the 31 percent tax bracket was 6.07 percent.
Of the tax-exempt funds monitored by IBC/ Donoghue with assets larger than $100 million, the Strong Municipal Money Market fund was the best performer. The fund, which is distributed by Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management Inc. of Milwaukee, had a return of 4.99 percent, down from 5.02 percent the previous week. Some of the securities that the fund buys could be subject to the Federal alternative minimum tax for certain investors.
Assets of taxable funds fell by a hefty $4.8 billion, to $451.7 billion, in the week, as institutional and small investors scampered for higher yields in other investments like short-term bond funds, corporate bond funds, Ginnie Mae funds, stocks and short-term international funds, analysts said.
 
Average Yields Fall
 The average seven-day compounded taxable yield fell by 5 basis points in the week, to 5.40 percent, as did the simple yield, to 5.26 percent. The 30-day compounded yield was down 9 basis points, to 5.48 percent, and the 30-day simple yield was down 4 basis points, to 5.34 percent.
The taxable fund with the best return was the Riverside Capital Money Market Fund of Columbus, Ohio, with a return of 6.45 percent.
By comparison, bank money market accounts, main competitors of money funds, fell 2 basis points in the week, to 5.12 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's national index. The yield spread between bank money market accounts and money market funds narrowed to 28 basis points in the week, compared with 31 basis points a week earlier.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on March 13, 1991, by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	5.10	5.52	Los Angeles	5.23	5.59	Chicago	5.03	5.57	San Francisco	5.16	5.55	Philadelphia	4.87	5.45	Detroit	5.08	5.31	Boston	5.18	5.34	Houston	5.24	5.53	Dallas	5.21	5.51	Washington	5.13	5.99	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	5.12	5.54	
 
* Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" shows seven-day average yields of Donoghue's Money Fund and Bank Rate Monitor from May-Sept. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from Sept. '90-Sept. '91. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report)
Table: "Regional Rates Table"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SCI CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



123 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL: Pentagon Besieged;
The Soviets' Eclipse Is Likely to Spur Calls for Curbs on Military Spending

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Fundamental changes in the once-monolithic Soviet military establishment are likely to force a re-examination of the United States armed forces soon, focusing on the still commanding size of the Pentagon's budget and the broad array of defense industries that support it, American military experts say.
The expected reassessment is at hand just months after defenders of present American military spending plans appeared to be in an unassailable position with the impressive United States victory in the Persian Gulf war. 
 Despite statements last week by President Bush and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney seeking to head off a Congressional groundswell for a peace dividend, unfolding events inside the Soviet Union appear certain to heighten national interest in further reducing American military spending in favor of domestic programs.
 
A Transformed World Scene
 "The coup and its impact on Soviet security forces means that the transformation of the world scene is being completed," said James R. Schlesinger, who served as Defense Secretary and Director of Central Intelligence in the 1970's. "The way we shaped our foreign policy and military forces for 45 years is going to have to be reviewed even more radically than at the time of the collapse of the Warsaw Pact."
Mr. Cheney, already sounding defensive, pointed out last week that the United States armed forces, at present two million strong, are at their lowest level since the months before the Korean War buildup; he said the $291 billion in defense spending for the next fiscal year, as a percentage of gross national product, was lower than it was in the days before Pearl Harbor.
Though some experts question the relevance of such comparisons to today's security climate, Mr. Cheney has been using them for two years to ward off those who would cut military spending. For the fight ahead, he may need some new arguments because several major defense issues appear ripe for re-examination.
They include whether to reduce the nuclear arsenals of the superpowers drastically, whether to abandon expensive strategic defense schemes, whether to cut back the Navy's fleet of aircraft carrier battle groups and whether to reduce the active duty ranks of the Army and the Marines significantly.
Some experts also question the need for a new generation of stealth fighters, bombers and helicopters, as well as battle cruisers and attack submarines, in quantities dictated by new war scenarios developed by Mr. Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The scenarios state that the United States should maintain sufficient forces and weapons to fight a war like the one in the Persian Gulf simultaneously with a smaller regional war, while also being prepared to meet a resurgent Soviet military threat.
"All of the scenarios are falling apart as far as the Soviet Union is concerned, and I don't buy the Middle East scenarios," said William W. Kaufmann, professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and longtime adviser to secretaries of defense.
The question is whether a Democratic Congress will buy the Pentagon's view of the world as the Soviet Union moves closer to the West in democratic character and commitment to a free-market economy.
With the major changes continuing to take place in the Soviet Union after the failed coup against President Mikhail S. Gorbachev last month, the 40-year-old concept of East-West military competition could soon be dead, leaving the United States looking like a superpower in an arms race with itself.
 
Soviet Officers Face Ouster
 "All my pillars of intellectual support are pretty well gone, because the Soviet Union and Soviet forces as I knew them no longer exist," said Lieut. Gen. Samuel V. Wilson, retired, who once was head of the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency. The announcement that Mr. Gorbachev's new Defense Minister, Yevgeny I. Shaposhnikov, would replace 80 percent of the Soviet officer corps was a signal that the Soviet upheaval had finally reached the country's most important institution. "To a degree, I share the attitude that the world has changed right under our feet," Mr. Wilson said.
Some experts, like Roald Sagdeyev, former head of the Space Research Institute in Moscow, believe that the aftermath of the failed coup not only has speeded the dissolution of the once vaunted Soviet military, but also has cracked the barriers protecting the military-industrial complex from conversion and change.
"The whole overproduction of tanks and submarines was a tragedy for the Soviet people, and this is why they are economically ruined," Mr. Sagdeyev said. He added that part of the "revolution" in East-West attitudes must come with help from the West in finding new roles for the shipbuilding and aviation industries.
Such change will encourage the kind of revolutionary thinking Mr. Bush alluded to when he forecast the "opportunity for a vastly restructured national security posture" last Thursday. It may be "way too early," as Mr. Bush also said, to consider such fundamental restructuring, but it may not be too early to begin a few months hence.
 
The Message Is Clear
 Representative Les Aspin's call last week to shift $1 billion within the 1992 defense budget to humanitarian aid for the Soviet Union was quickly assailed by Mr. Cheney, but the political message coming from the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee was clear: the Administration has some time to put together a new defense program, but not too much.
While Mr. Aspin himself may be loath to risk reopening the budget agreement that has locked in defense budget figures until after the 1992 elections, his suggestion served as an important trial balloon to determine whether the political spell cast over the defense budget by the successful Persian Gulf war has been broken.
Mr. Aspin acknowledged as recently as last month that the Administration was in an unassailable political position by pursuing a course of modest cuts and trumpeting military achievements in the Persian Gulf. But now the failure of the Moscow coup has ended the longstanding debate on whether Mr. Gorbachev's revolution is reversible.
Although the eventual shape of the Soviet military remains dependent on the new political architecture emerging in Moscow, United States military analysts speculate that the 4.5 million-member armed forces may become a smaller, highly professional all-volunteer force under a collective leadership that may emphasize purely defensive roles on behalf of diverse republics.
"A collective head is not going to allow the military to be an interventionist force," a Pentagon official suggested. "Can you imagine the Azerbaijanis voting for the incursion into Afghanistan?"
A Soviet Union that represents the collective sovereign interests of its constituent republics will be more likely to pursue arms control agreements to eliminate nuclear weapons, these experts say.
With the prospect of large-scale retirements and purges in the top ranks of the Soviet military, the slashing of military industries' budgets and the dismantling of the K.G.B. and the internal security forces, the fundamental transfer of resources out of the Soviet military sector appears to be at hand and will pave the way for the inevitable debate on a new definition for United States national security policy.
 
A Flood of Questions
 In the process, a flood of questions will emerge, a number of experts say.
*Should the Bush Administration seize the initiative to reopen strategic arms negotiations to lock in an even lower ceiling for warheads, missile launchers, strategic bombers and submarines held by the superpowers?
*Why should both sides continue to hold each other's populations and industries hostage to strategic nuclear targeting even as the Soviet economy begins to intermingle with Western economies? "Nuclear weapons have never been important to us except as a deterrent to the Soviet Union," Mr. Wilson said, "and once the need for that deterrent becomes less, I think that we and they will be in an excellent position to figure out some way to discard these things," leaving only a "modest" number of intercontinental strategic weapons on each side.
*Does the United States need 12 aircraft carrier battle groups, which were built as part of a global war-fighting strategy against the Soviets? Mr. Kaufmann argues that six carriers based most of the time in United States waters are sufficient to protect American interests around the world.
*Is it necessary to build a fleet of 80 or 90 Seawolf attack submarines at a cost of $2 billion each when their chief mission is to bottle up the Soviet fleet in Arctic seas in World War III? Some Congressional and Navy analysts are already quietly calling for the end of the Seawolf program in favor of a smaller attack submarine fleet of more modest design.
*Do both the Air Force and the Navy need new fleets of stealth fighters and bombers, or could stealth technologies be adapted to current production lines of F-15's, F-16's and F-14's?
*More important, does the Pentagon need to continue subsidizing through divided procurement strategies a broad spectrum of often redundant defense industries on the theory that "surge" production capacity is essential to be prepared for global war? For 45 years, the Pentagon has been propping up or bailing out major airframe manufacturers and shipyards that otherwise would succumb to market forces in the belief that these industries are critical to the military industrial base needed for war.
Whether much of this industrial capacity can now go safely into mothballs is a question that Congress will have to address -- against powerful parochial and pork barrel interests -- if it wants to undertake a significant transfer of resources to the domestic agenda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (98%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NAVIES (78%); KOREAN WAR (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); HELICOPTERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E DICK CHENEY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



124 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
The Day's Highlights

 BODY:

Putting Up a Fight
Congress Resists Gorbachev's Plan: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev kept discussion alive on a plan to replace the Soviet Union with a mix of central and republican governments, but lawmakers pressed for concessions, warning that the move was too authoritarian. Page A1. 
 A Leaner But Tough K.G.B.: Although the K.G.B. has a new chairman and has lost its army of border guards, some insiders say it is hunkering down and keeping the identities of its agents secret. Page A1.
 
New Identities Across the Land
Revolving Door For Media: The official newspaper of Leningrad's Communist Party Central Committee has been reborn as the St. Petersburg Gazette. But not every Soviet news outlet has been able, or has even sought, to find a less conservative identity. Page A10.
Lithuania Exonerates Thousands: In Lithuania, the new Government challenged the authority of Soviet courts by exonerating thousands who had been condemned as Nazi war criminals. Page A1.
 
The West Takes a Hard Look
U.S. Offers A Policy: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d avoided spelling out what type of Soviet government the Bush Administration wants to see, but indicated it would prefer a loose confederation with a central authority that could fulfill treaty obligations, control nuclear arms and cooperate on issues like Middle East peace. Page A1.
Pressure On The Pentagon: Experts predict that changes in the Soviet military establishment will prompt the United States to consider new cuts in its nuclear arsenal, the abandonment of strategic defense schemes and a reduction in active-duty ranks of the Army and Marines. Page A12.
Europe Unfreezes Aid: The European Community approved $11.8 million in technical aid for the Soviet Union that had initially been blocked in retaliation for repression in the Baltic republics. Page A13.
Figuring Out The Food Chain: Department of Agriculture officials leading teams to the Soviet Union are concerned that the distribution of food may be as much a problem as the food supply. Page A13.
The Tie That Binds?: Western experts dismiss warnings about the dangers of decentralizing the Soviet economy, arguing that poorer republics are unlikely to miss what they never enjoyed. Page A13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS LITHUANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); WAR CRIMES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



125 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Dow Edges Down 9.17 to Close at 3,008.50

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Stocks closed lower yesterday after the Dow Jones industrial average dipped to the psychological barrier of 3,000 and then rebounded slightly to close at 3,008.50, a loss of 9.17 points.
Anxiety over the employment statistics to be released by the Government tomorrow caused many traders to remain on the sidelines while a batch of program trades in the late afternoon caused the market to fall by nearly 18 points before beginning a slow recovery. 
 Volume totaled 157.5 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, slightly higher than in the previous session; declining issues on the Big Board outnumbered advancing stocks by a ratio of 9 to 5.
"It's a waiting game," said Gene Jay Seagle, director of technical research at Gruntal & Company. "The market fell on a lack of buying rather than from terribly heavy selling."
The mood of the market is one of caution as investors wait to see whether a worsening employment picture will encourage the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates to stimulate the economy. Cuts in interest rates have generally proved to be a powerful long-term stimulus to the stock market.
A small example of the effect of falling interest rates came yesterday when the Bank of England announced before the United States markets opened that it was lowering a key rate to 10.5 percent, from 11 percent. That caused a slight morning rally on the Big Board before stocks began to head down.
Trading patterns were similar in other markets. The American Stock Exchange's composite index closed down 1.53 points, at 369.99, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 2.99, to 517.92.
Ricky Harrington, director of investment policy at Marion Bass Securities in Charlotte, N.C., said that if volume remained steady, the market could experience a "technical rebound" in the next day or two.
"I think you can make a case that there's technical support at 3,000," Mr. Harrington said. "But if you begin to get diminishing volume, then look for a move back behind 3,000 next week."
Market analysts discounted the effect the appearance of Salomon Brothers officials before a House committee yesterday may have had on trading. They said that any market pressure had already been absorbed in stock prices and noted that shares of Salomon Brothers traded down only 3/8 yesterday to close at 25.
There was a split decision on two leading drug stocks. Centocor was the most active over-the-counter stock, rising 3, to 40 1/2. That came on news that the Food and Drug Administration had approved a Centocor drug to fight bacterial infections. But the agency did not approve a rival drug from Xoma, and that company's shares tumbled 5, to 15 1/2. The two stocks were the most actively traded yesterday.
The stocks of waste management companies also fell after the announcement on Tuesday that the earnings of Browning Ferris were still being hurt by the recession. Browning Ferris fell 1 1/4, to 20 1/2, and was the third-most-active stock.
Goodyear was one of the few bright spots among blue chips. The stock rose 2 3/8, to 40 7/8, after announcing tire price increases that were welcomed by analysts.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GRUNTAL & CO LLC (70%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); APPROVALS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (63%); US FDA APPROVALS (62%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



126 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
U.S. Hoping Moscow Can Retain Control of Soviets' Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
The Bush Administration indicated today that it hopes to see the Soviet Union become a loose confederation of sovereign republics with a central authority that could at least control nuclear weapons, fulfill treaty obligations and work together with the United States on foreign policy initiatives like Middle East peace.
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who outlined Administration policy toward a rapidly changing Soviet Union during a news conference at the State Department, carefully avoided spelling out the type of government the United States would like to see evolve, insisting that this was for the Soviet people to decide. 
 But the American policy guidelines he described would be virtually impossible to achieve without a Soviet Union that remains, at a minimum, a loose confederation of republics, with some sort of central authority.
Mr. Baker's comments, which followed a meeting with President Bush at the White House today, represented the Administration's first effort since the failed coup last month to distill its reactions to the political upheaval in the Soviet Union into a statement of policy. [Excerpts from the news conference, page A12.]
 
Applauds the Momentum
 The Secretary of State made it clear that Washington would like to see the momentum toward political and economic reform that followed the coup attempt continue apace, but hopes it will not lead to the total elimination of some central authority with which the United States and its allies can work on military and diplomatic issues.
Specifically, Mr. Baker said the United States would prefer that the Soviet Union's arsenal of 28,000 nuclear weapons remain under a central command authority rather than falling under the control of the republics.
"We do not want to see the transformation that's taking place in the Soviet Union either create or add to the problems of nuclear-weapons proliferation," he said. "I think that it would be probably on balance best if not necessarily they ended up all in one republic, but that they ended up under one central command authority."
Mr. Baker also indicated that the Administration was in no rush to recognize the independence of any republics other than Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania -- which he said he would visit next week on a trip that will also take him to Moscow.
The visit, intended to underscore American support for Baltic independence, serves the additional purpose of reassuring the large communities of Baltic-Americans in Chicago and other cities that the Administration is responsive to their interests.
American officials say they want to avoid doing anything that would hasten an uncontrolled breakup of the Soviet Union, such as opening diplomatic relations with non-Baltic republics that have declared independence. These republics will continued to be served by the United States Embassy in Moscow or the consulate in Kiev.
 
Complements Gorbachev Policy
 The Bush Administration's apparent preference for a loose confederation with some central authority dovetails with the sort of reform program that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has been trying to persuade the Soviet republics to accept.
Mr. Baker's remarks suggested that both the substance and the semantics of American policy toward the Soviet Union are going to change. He never mentioned the names of Mr. Gorbachev or of Boris N. Yeltsin, President of the Russian federated republic, but instead constantly referred to "Soviet leaders" and "the Soviet peoples" as the interlocutors with whom Washington would deal.
The Secretary said that during his weeklong visit to the Soviet Union, he will explore the need for humanitarian assistance to get through the winter, as well as how the delivery of promised American technical help for reforming the Soviet economy, markets and distribution systems can be accelerated.
Mr. Baker also said that after consulting with Japanese officials, he hoped to talk with the Soviets about accelerating a settlement of the dispute over the Northern Territories, or Kurile Islands.
Japan has made return of the four islands occupied by the Soviet Union at the end of World War II a condition for any substantial economic aid to Moscow, something that the United States is eager to see since it would spread the aid burden.
 
Outlines Set of Principles
 In laying out five principles that would guide American foreign policy toward the Soviet Union, Mr. Baker said the first would be that "the future of the Soviet Union is for the Soviet peoples to determine themselves, peacefully and consistent with democratic values and practices." He added that in this process "there can be no legitimate place for threats, intimidation, coercion or violence."
Second, Mr. Baker said, the United States urged everyone inside and outside the Soviet Union to "respect existing borders, internal and external." He emphasized that "any change of borders should only occur legitimately by peaceful and consensual means" consistant with the principles of the Helsinki Final Act.
American officials say that a loose federation of Sovereign republics would help defuse ethnic and border tensions, which could easily arise if each of the Soviet republics decided to go its own way.
Third, the United States will support peaceful change in the Soviet Union "only through orderly, democratic processes, especially elections."
Fourth, the United States wants to see the "safeguarding of human rights, based on full respect for the individual and including equal treatment of minorities."
Finally, Mr. Baker emphasized that the United States will expect whatever political entity or entities emerge from changes in the Soviet Union to respect international obligations, especially human rights provisions.
 
How to Apply These Concepts
 Mr. Baker said that as the Soviet people and leaders "clarify the precise interrelationships both among the various republics and with the center," he will methods supportive of these five principles.
He added, though, that his agenda on next week's visit will be much broader. He will meet with members of the new Economic Commission to "urge rapid development of a new, comprehensive economic adjustment and reform plan in close consultation with the I.M.F., World Bank and other international economic institutions."
Mr. Baker conceded that he would not be bringing any specific economic reform plan to the Soviet Union, other than to urge rapid steps to create a free-market economy and private property.
Administration officials have privately said that the prospects for coherent and speedy economic reform will be much greater if the Soviet republics act together through some central coordinating body.
 
Debt and Default
 One of the questions hanging over Soviet economic reform, the Secretary said, is who will be responsible for the nation's foreign debts if the union breaks totally apart and what prospect there will be for individual republics to raise capital abroad if the Union is in default on a large scale.
Speaking of Soviet debts, Mr. Baker asked: "To what extent will republics that are leaving the Soviet Union disclaim any responsibility? To what extent would some accept some responsibility? And what does that do to the ability of those of us in the West whose laws call for certain credit requirements?
"All I suggest there," he said, "is that if there is going to be a devolution of rights and responsibilities, that it's both, not just rights but responsibilities as well."
Mr. Baker said he would be discussing with Soviet leaders various security issues "to insure proper follow-through on treaty commitments and understandings on nuclear safety."
He emphasized that arms control treaties negotiated with the old Soviet leadership are "still in our interest," and the United States would ask the new government to abide by its commitments in the conventional arms reduction treaty signed last November and the strategic arms reduction treaty signed in August.
Mr. Baker was pressed to explain how the Administration could ask the Senate to ratify these treaties when it did not know what sort of Soviet Union would exist to carry them out.
"If we're not satisfied come time to ratify, obviously, I think we would probably say, 'Let's wait till we're satisfied.' " he replied. "But don't interpret that as a statement today that says we're not going to do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d outlining the Administration's policy on a rapidly changing Soviet Union at a news conference yesterday. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BALTIC STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (99%); BALTIC STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COUPS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



127 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Salomon Scandal
A report from Salomon says rules were ignored and documentation was lax on its government bond trading desk. That casual approach also seemed to characterize the way senior management dealt with the scandal over improper bidding for bonds. [Page D1.]
Some in Congress say they will move to tighten regulation of the $2.2 trillion Treasury securities market. [D1.]
Britain has dismissed Salomon as lead manager in the U.S. of the planned sale of British Telecom shares. [D23.]
 
Companies
An anti-bacterial drug from Centocor won Federal approval, giving the company a victory over Xoma, a rival that was told by regulators that its competing drug would need more study. [D1.]
Union Pacific said it had taken a $575 million charge to offset the cost of reducing the size of crews on its freight trains. [D1.]
Coca-Cola is hiring a powerful Hollywood talent ageny to help it mold worldwide marketing and media strategies. [D1.]
I.B.M. introduced its least expensive AS/400 minicomputer to date and said it might redesign the computer line. [D4.]
Ford is making few changes in it Taurus model, apparently reluctant to tamper with success. [D2.]
Nordstrom opened a bank to issue and service its credit cards, in a move to avoid state limits on finance charges. [D4.]
Whittle says it is in final talks to acquire Healthlink Television, a rival in putting media products in doctors' waiting rooms. [D6.]
An oil industry a group formed to handle oil spills will operate from five centers around the nation. [D7.]
A Times ad about U.S. Surgical was apparently a hoax, the newspaper said. [D21.]
Occidental Petroleum will sell its stake in IBP, a beef processor, to stockholders and, if necessary, to other investors. [D4.]
Woody Allen's next film will be made for Tri-Star, ending, at least temporarily, his relationship with Orion Pictures. [C15.]
A Du Pont corporate jet was reported missing over Malaysia. Five Conoco executives and four spouses were aboard. [A5.]
 
Markets
Stocks closed lower after the Dow dipped to 3,000 and then rebounded to close at 3,008.50, down 9.17 points. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in very thin trading,as traders awaited the August employment data. [D18.] Money market yields were mixed for the second straight week. [D9.]
The dollar closed unchanged to lower in uneventful trading. Gold prices rose modestly. [D19.] Cocoa futures surged upward for the third consecutive session. [D19.]
 
International
Europe's governments are stepping up efforts to rescue the Continent's beleaguered electronics industry, fearful of being left hopelessly behind Japan and the U.S. [D1.]
The lack of a central power in the Soviet Union may not be as much a problem for the economy there as many fear, Western experts say. Economic Analysis.[A13.]
A fund to finance environmental projects in the third world is being set up with backing from a Federal agency. [D7.]
Japanese brokerage officials made new acknowledgments of improper payments. [D10.]
 
Today's Columns
One waste disposer seems more prone to burying its stock price than garbage in recent years. Market Place. [D10.]
Maybelline is spending lavishly to refashion the advertising and marketing of its cosmetics. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); UNP (NYSE) (56%); OXY (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (53%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (56%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SECURITIES TRADING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COCOA MARKETS (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); BEEF (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ANTIBIOTICS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); TRAINS (68%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); OIL SPILLS (64%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (62%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



128 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

SOVIET TURMOIL A10-13
Demands for fast passage of a plan for revamping the current Soviet Union encountered stiff opposition in the national Congress. At best, President Gorbachev could win only a vote to keep discussion alive. Page A1
The new Government of Lithuania has begun issuing certificates of exoneration for thousands of people who had been condemned as Nazi war criminals by Soviet courts. A1 
 Read all about it! A petrified press in new guise A10
The K.G.B. began hunkering down over the past few days. Despite a clamor to disband the secret police, it intends to keep secret most of its intelligence files and lists of agents and collaborators. A1
Is central planning still necessary? The Soviet people found they could not live with it, and as power appears to be shifting to the republics, Western experts say that a nation without a center might work. A13
The Bush Administration's hope for the Soviet Union is that it become a confederation of republics with a central authority that could control nuclear weapons, fulfill treaties and work with the United States on initiatives such as Middle East peace. A1
News analysis: A re-examination of the United States armed forces is likely to begin as a result to the changes in the Soviet military. Attention will focus on the commanding size of the Pentagon budget. A12
Food experts to study Soviet distribution system A13
Europeans, ending a delay, approve Soviet technical aid A13
 
INTERNATIONAL A3-9, A16
A new constitution in South Africa would provide universal suffrage for the first time in the nation's history, President F. W. de Klerk announced. Nelson Mandela, the A.N.C. leader, condemned the plan. A1
The grip on the Dead Sea Scrolls that has been held by a coterie of scholars -- which has limited access to the scrolls for 40 years -- may have been broken by researchers using a desktop computer. A1
Baker asks delay on Israel aid bid A6
Bitter fighting raged across Croatia, only two days after Yugoslav leaders signed a cease-fire agreement. Croatia said that the Serbian offensive was aimed at "laying down the borders of a new Serbia." A3
Early vote plan seen as British cut interest rates A3
Karachi Journal: A Hindu Romeo, a Muslim Juliet A4
News analysis: Hard-liners in China worry not only that the Soviet break-up might spread democracy, but that ethnic minorities in Western China, especially in Tibet, will be inspired by assertions of sovereignity. A16
Conoco jet carrying 12 Amerians missing over Malaysia A5
 
NATIONAL A18-26, D24-25
Poorly paid health-care workers, mostly nursing home aides and women, are expected to break free of the minimum wage. The change is coming just as the industry desperately seeks ways to cut costs. A1
Failure to inspect the chicken plant in North Carolina where 25 people died in a fire was caused by lack of funds and the Federal Government's failure to hold the plant to strict standards, state officials said. D25
Factory fire leave pall over "All- American" city D25
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska edged closer to a race for the Democratic Presidential nomination, saying that he would announce his plans in late September but leaving little doubt that he intended to run. A22 An ad in support of Judge Thomas and his nomination to the Supreme Court is generating sparks because of its attacks on three Democratic senators. President Bush called the television spot offensive. A21
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noreiga will go to trial this week, 20 months after the invasion of his country. The trial may shed light on some of the most controversial and embarrassing episodes of recent Amerian foreign policy. D24
A series of animated Bible stories on video that has sold hundreds of thousands of copies over the past three years has been sharply criticized for negative and stereotypical portrayals of Jews and Judaism. A18
Texas mother gets 15 years for murder plot A18
Doctor rejoins Stanford staff A26
 
REGIONAL B1-8
Up to three new garbage incinerators in New York City will be built, in part because the city will not be able to recycle as much trash as state goals call for, the Dinkins administration has concluded. A1
A feud between two powerful figures in New York came to an anticlimactic end as District Attorney Robert Morgenthau of Manhattan asked a judge to dismiss all charges against State Senator Manfred Ohrenstein. B1
The man charged in the 1946 slaying of Miami's first black police officer will be extradicted to Florida but will not go to prison, one of the lawyers for the man, Leroy Strachan, said. B1
Attack at the Milford Plaza ends with three arrested B3
Fatal gunfight over dog stuns Staten Island neighborhood B8 Westchester teacher's duty changed since murder trial B2
Wiring flaw and battery failure cited in nuclear plant mishap B2
A ride on the restored No. 4 train was filled with eerie reminders of the run that ended in the death of five people last week. The first was a crew sheet with the name R. Ray, the now indicted driver, penciled out. B1
The Council race in East Flatbush seems to have the ingredients for a Bonfire of Vanities: A Jewish incumbent is running in a mostly black area. But she has much in common with her most visible opponent. B1
CUNY may not punish a professor, Dr. Michael Levin, for writing that "on average, blacks are significantly less intelligent than whites," a Federal judge ruled. B2
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
The Home Section
Parents weigh the risks of city vs. suburbs C1
In lieu of swags and cloth, just simple country coziness C1
Gardening Notebook C1
Parent & Child C2
 
Arts/Entertainment
Woody Allen signs with Tri-Star C15
A Louis Armstrong archive in Queens C15
George C. Scott in a play about death C15
The Joyce Theater dances on despite flood C15
 
Obituaries
Martin Dubilier, an inventor D25
Cardinal de Lubac, an architect of France's church renewal D25
Thomas Tryon, actor and writer D26
James H. Fogelson, a lawyerD26
Davis Factor, cosmetics chief D26
 
Sports B10-18
Baseball: Gooden may need shoulder surgery B11
Astros beat Mets and Cone B13
Yanks snap 15-game skid at Rangers' park B13
Column: Vecsey on Connors B11
Hockey: Devils and Stevens no perfect match yet B11
Tennis: Navratilova and Graf gain B11
How Connors keeps opponents off balance B17
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A24
Toward a Soviet re-union
Sounder bites in the campaign
City Council, from Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); TIBET (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (51%); 

CITY: KARACHI, PAKISTAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); TIBET (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (51%); KARACHI, PAKISTAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HISTORY (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); ETHNICITY (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); WAR CRIMES (56%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT W BEST (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



129 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Baker's Remarks: Policy on Soviets

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Following is a statement made today by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d during a briefing on United States policy toward the Soviet Union.
 In the last two weeks, we've seen another revolution blowing with full force across the Soviet Union. Of course, it's obvious that we want to see this revolution remain democratic and we want to see it remain peaceful. Building democracy and free markets across the Soviet Union is not going to be an easy task after decades of totalitarianism and central planning. The work of freedom will be hard, and the transition will be painful. 
 The Soviet peoples have to know that they have just embarked on what will be a very difficult road, but they must know, too, that there can be no turning away from democratic principles and tolerance if they truly hope to follow that road to its end and to join the democratic commonwealth of nations. We will help them move along that path of political and economic freedom.
As a first step, the President has asked me to go to Moscow next week to attend the C.S.C.E. human rights meeting and to have discussions with a number of leaders. I go to the Soviet Union with a four-part agenda.
First, I will convey to Soviet leaders and to the Soviet peoples the five principles that will guide this administration's approach to political change in the Soviet Union. However, on this overall question let me be very clear. The Baltic states have always been and they remain a special and indeed separate case for the United States.
We never recognized their incorporation into the Soviet Union. To us they have never been Soviet republics, but instead separate states for whom we helped keep alive the promise and diplomatic symbols of independence.
And of course on Monday the President took an important step to turn that promise and those symbols into working realities, beginning the process of establishing formal diplomatic relations with the governments of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. To emphasize America's continuing commitment to the Baltics' enduring freedom, I would like very much to visit these states on this trip.
As to the changes that are taking place in center-republic relations, our policy, that is, the policy of this Administration, toward the Soviet future will be guided by the following five principles.
First, the future of the Soviet Union is for the Soviet peoples to determine themselves, peacefully and consistent with democratic values and practices and the principles of the Helsinki Final Act. We call upon all Soviet leaders at all levels of government, including those of the republics, to show their support for these internationally accepted principles. In this process there can be no legitimate place for threats, intimidation, coercion or violence.
Second, we urge all to respect existing borders, both internal and external. Any change of borders should occur only legitimately by peaceful and consensual means, consistent with C.S.C.E. principles.
Third, we support democracy and the rule of law. And we support peaceful change only through orderly democratic processes, especially the processes of elections.
Four, we call for the safeguarding of human rights based on full respect for the individual and including equal treatment of minorities.
Five, we urge respect for international law and obligations, especially adherence to the provisions of the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris. Clearly one of the first and most important steps the Soviet leaders and peoples need to take is to clarify the precise interrelationships both among the various republics and between the republics and the center. We will recommend that these relationships be clarified in ways that are supportive of the five principles that I've just outlined.
The second item on my agenda on this trip will be our support for fundamental economic reform and immediate humanitarian needs. The Soviet political revolution must now be matched by an economic revolution. In Moscow I will seek to meet with Prime Minister Silayev and the members of the Economic Commission to urge rapid development of a new comprehensive economic adjustment and reform plan in close consultation with the I.M.F., the World Bank and the other international economic institutions. This we think is the critical next step.
I will also be discussing with Soviet leaders at all levels humanitarian needs for the winter. This work will complement the efforts being undertaken by the presidential mission.
And, finally, I plan to examine how our technical assistance can be accelerated to both help meet humanitarian needs and to prepare the foundations for long-term restructuring.
The third item on my agenda will be Soviet foreign policy. In particular, I will be continuing to work on efforts to convene a peace conference to launch direct negotiations and thereby to facilitate a viable peacemaking process in the Middle East. After consulting with our Japanese partners, I also would hope to be able to accelerate action on the Northern Territories, stressing the need to close out the last significant vestige of World War II.
And the fourth item on my agenda -- fourth, and finally -- I hope to have some talks about Soviet security policy generally so that we can assure proper follow-through on treaty commitments and understandings on nuclear safety and pave the way for a genuine and extensive defense conversion effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BALTIC STATES (93%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); LATVIA (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (83%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (83%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (95%); BALTIC STATES (93%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); LATVIA (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



130 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: NEW INCINERATORS TERMED ESSENTIAL IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD

 BODY:
New York City will have to build as many as three new garbage incinerators, in part because it will not be able to recycle as much trash as state goals call for, the Dinkins administration has concluded.
The new incinerators could cost at least $1 billion and will most likely prompt fierce opposition from environmental and community groups. In his 1989 mayoral campaign, David N. Dinkins had held out hope that the city would be able to address its trash disposal needs without resorting to new incinerators.
But in a plan to be disclosed today, Dinkins administration officials acknowledge that in addition to expanding three existing plants, two to three additional new incinerators will be needed.
 
Burning Plus Recycling
 The administration also said that the city would have to burn 68 percent of its trash, slightly less than what was contemplated by the Koch administration. The city collects 14,500 tons of waste a day. "Even with very aggressive recycling, we still need to burn 10,000 tons," Steven M. Polan, the city's Sanitation Commissioner, said in an interview yesterday.
Many environmental and community groups have vehemently opposed building new incinerators because of concern over worsening air quality and neighborhood disruption by truck traffic. Incinerators emit several kinds of contaminants including soot particles containing lead, acid gases and dioxin, considered to be health risks.
The city will be able to recycle 25 percent of its trash by the year 2000, the same level required by city law but less than a state goal of as much as 42 percent by 1997, Mr. Polan said.
But any more than 25 percent cannot be economically justified because recycling markets will not be sufficiently developed to absorb all the material that New Yorkers could separate for recycling, he said.
Opponents of incinerators are very likely to take issue with the Sanitation Department analysis that only 25 percent recycling is economically feasible.
But city officials say that just to reach the 25 percent level will require adding to the six materials many New Yorkers currently separate for recycling pickup. About 6 percent of the trash collected by the Sanitation Department is now being separated under the city's struggling two-and-a-half-year-old recycling program.
Mr. Polan is to present highlights of the administration's plan at a state legislative hearing on solid waste today at 11 A.M. at 270 Broadway in New York City. A city solid waste management plan required by state law -- already five months late -- is expected to be completed and released for public comment by Nov. 1, Mr. Polan said. In the interview yesterday, Mr. Polan offered only an outline of the plan, and it was unclear when the new incinerators would be built.
After hearings in November and December, the plan will be modified and submitted to the state Department of Environmental Conservation. The city cannot build trash processing or disposal plants until the plan receives state approval.
Many officials, including Mr. Dinkins's First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, maintain that recycling has limits and that with landfill capacity running out, the city has no alternative except to burn a substantial amount of its trash. Incineration proponents say modern plants are safe if properly maintained.
 
Dinkins' 1989 Promise
 In 1989, Mr. Dinkins promised to delay a decision until 1993 about building more incinerators, pending a review of the city's trash disposal needs.
"We're not going to have giant, mass-burn incinerators in every borough belching poison into the air," he said, after receiving the endorsement of the New York League of Conservation Voters.
The next February, Mr. Dinkins said at a conference on the environment: "You all know that I have some very serious concerns about the consequences of proceeding with resource-recovery plants, especially with regard to the toxic ash produced by that technology. Unless my concerns are adequately answered, we will not proceed with incineration."
Resource-recovery plants are incinerators that convert garbage-generated steam into electric power.
Under one Koch administration plan, new incinerators would have been built in each borough. Mr. Polan said the Dinkins plan would require building two or three new incinerators and the expansion of three existing units, which is under way. Construction of an incinerator at the old Brooklyn Navy Yard remains a possibility, a department spokeswoman, Anne Canty, said.
The Sanitation Department's study found that incineration is the cheapest way to dispose of trash, Mr. Polan said, but an approach limited to burning would be at odds with the state's environmental priorities and increasing national emphasis on more recycling.
He reiterated that the city's current recycling program is struggling and needs an overhaul badly. Such an overhaul would require big revisions in the city's mandatory recycling law, which contemplated 25 percent recycling by spring 1994.
Sounding an old theme, Mr. Polan said achieving 25 percent recycling at an affordable cost will require changes in sanitation union work rules. The department needs more flexibility to move workers from collection to recycling routes, he said. Bargaining between management and the union has gone nowhere on the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; INCINERATORS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MAYORS (71%); PARTICULATE MATTER (66%); LEAD (65%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); POLAN, STEVEN M (COMR)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



131 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Parents Weigh the Risks Of City vs. Suburbs

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
PEOPLE with children have always debated leaving New York City. But previous generations saw their trek to the suburbs as a move up to a better life.
Many New Yorkers who are leaving now have few illusions about suburban life. Some of them grew up in the suburbs and found the experience stultifying. The suburbs, however, represent safety. 
 To live in New York these days is to talk about the dangers here, which somehow seem greater now that the boom years of the 1980's have passed. Parents wonder whether they are risking their children's lives by choosing to live in New York.
Marcia Cohen, who recently moved from Manhattan to Scarsdale, N.Y., with her husband and two young children, said violence helped to push her out. Earlier this year, there was a shootout at 4:45 in the afternoon on her Upper East Side block, just as the children were coming home from school. "That just scared us to death," she said, and reinforced the family's decision to leave.
While violence is more common in the city, the statistical odds that her children will die young are no greater on the Upper East Side than in Scarsdale. Suburban teen-agers face a greater risk of dying in a car accident, a kind of carnage rarely considered when the bucolic suburbs beckon.
Death rates are admittedly a limited way to measure quality of life. City dwellers speak longingly of letting their children ride bikes in the street or walk alone to a neighbor's home. They believe that safety is assured only by keeping children under constant surveillance.
Nor do death rates take into account the high rate of crimes like muggings. Nevertheless, they are one of the few concrete ways to assess safety.
Elliott Sclar, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, unabashedly loves New York for its culture, its intellectual life and its high level of stimulation. He believes that the suburbs are riskier than people believe, and the city less dangerous.
"If you add up all the statistics," he said, "you trade a bullet for a car."
But living in the city with his wife and two young children requires him to be constantly on guard, which is enervating. His son, who is 8 years old, does not have the mobility that suburban children do. "I can't imagine allowing Jason to go anywhere by himself until he's 52 or 53," Professor Sclar said.
The fear of violence is only one reason parents leave the city. The quality of public schools and the cost of housing are big reasons. But fear of violence creates the feeling that the quality of life has declined in New York.
Vivienne Stultz, a native of Jamaica who has lived in New York since 1967, has with great regret decided to sell her house in Richmond Hill, Queens, because she believes the city has too many negative influences on her four children. "New York should be loved, and I love it," she said. But inadequate schools and unreliable subways are drawbacks, as is violence, or at least the possibility of it.
"Violence hasn't really touched me," she said. "But it is ever present."
National statistics on the relative safety of growing up in cities versus suburbs do not exist, according to demographers. But narrower studies indicate that financial status and education, not place of residence. predict the life span for young people.
"In general, the wealthier you are, the lower your mortality," said Paul Wise, a professor of pediatrics at Harvard University Medical School who has studied childhood death rates. Although his studies have focused on Boston, he believes his findings apply to the nation as a whole.
Harry Rosenberg, chief of mortality statistics at the National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Md., said social class correlates with death rates. "The race differential is wiped out when you can control for socioeconomic factors," he said.
Death rates among the poor in New York City are disproportionately high. For example, among people up to age 24 in Harlem, the death rate was 265 per 100,000 in 1988, compared to 75 per 100,000 in Staten Island. But in many parts of the city, particularly the wealthier areas, the death rate was equal to or even lower than that of young people in affluent suburbs.
Statistics, however, should be viewed with caution because in small populations, death rates can be radically altered by only one accident or fire in which many people die. Also, the most recent statistics, broken down by neighborhood by the New York City Health Department, are several years old. Suburban figures use 1990 population numbers and 1989 deaths, except for Bergen County, which uses 1988 data.
On the Upper East Side, the death rate in 1988 was 60 per 100,000 for people up to age 24, lower than the rate of 83 per 100,000 in Scarsdale in 1989 for that age group and the rate of 97 per 100,000 in Greenwich, Conn., in 1988.
TriBeCa had a death rate of 80 per 100,000, and Greenwich Village and SoHo each had a rate of 21 per 100,000 for that age group in 1988.
For Westchester County, the death rate for people up to age 24 was 88 per 100,000 in 1989. In Bergen County, N.J., an area with no urban centers and many small, wealthy towns, the death rate in 1989 for that age group was 65 per 100,000. In Nassau County on Long Island, the death rate was 82 per 100,000.
Some suburbs have the same death rates as parts of the city that have socioeconomically diverse populations. On the Upper West Side, for instance, the death rate for young people was 107 per 100,000; in New Rochelle in Westchester County, it was 108.
Parents who are trying to choose where to live speak of their culpability if something happened to their children. Those with the economic means to leave the city say that if their children died in an act of violence, they would feel that they could have averted it. But if their children died in a car accident in the suburbs, they would feel that it was just that, an accident; they would not feel that they should not have moved to the suburbs.
Robin Bossert, who lives in Brooklyn with his wife and child, is frustrated by the focus on violence in the city and the general belief that the suburbs are risk-free. He spent his teen years in Pleasantville in Westchester County, and he remembers fatal car accidents and suicides among his friends. The pervasive negative attitude about the city is so disheartening, he said, that he tries to avoid watching or reading local news reports that he considers biased.
"I go by my own personal experience," he said. "This city is stupendous."
Louise Hamilton, who grew up in New York, feels torn by the advantages and disadvantages of life in the city and suburbs. As friends leave, the city becomes less appealing and she has been talking with her husband about moving to the suburbs with their son, who is 8.
"Friends talk about it, yes," she said. "But if they do it, that makes a real difference."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elliott Sclar and his son, Jason. Prof. Sclar loves New York City, but worries about his son's safety. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Life's Odds"
 Death, from all causes, per 100,000 population for newborns to 24-years-olds. Figures are from 1988 data unless otherwise noted.

 	 	Suburbs	 	 	 	Connecitcut	 	Greenwich* 	97	Norwalk* 	99	 	 	New Jersey	 	Bergen County 	65	 	 	New York	 	Harrison+ 	36	Nassau County+ 	82	New Rochelle+ 	108	Scarsdale+ 	83	Westchester County+ 	88	 	 	City	 	 	 	New York City 	131	Bronx 	163	Brooklyn 	149	Manhattan 	139	Queens 	89	Staten Island 	75	Astoria/Long Island City	88	Bedford Stuyvesant 	217	Belmont/East Tremont 	168	Greenwich Village/SoHo	21	Harlem 	265	Jackson Heights 	105	Park Slope/Carroll Gardens	131	Riverdale/Spuyten Duyvil	103	TriBeCa 	80	Upper East Side 	60	Upper West Side 	107	
 
* From 1988 deaths and 1990 population.
+ From 1989 deaths and 1990 population.
 
(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; POPULATION SHIFTS; SUBURBS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; VIOLENCE SUBURBS (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); POPULATION DECLINE (79%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (74%); CRIME RATES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (64%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



132 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: The Joyce Dances On Despite Soggy Stage

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
The American Indian Dance Theater will open the dance season at the Joyce Theater on Sept. 17 with a traditional blessing of the ground on which it will perform. That blessing will have an extra resonance this year, for the Joyce might very well have been closed for the season after a faulty sprinkler system in early August flooded the theater with 227,000 gallons of water, creating what one staff member described as "a reflecting pool" in the lower lobby. The stage floor was ruined, as were the theater's piano and its 464 seats and carpeting. Red dye dripping from the soaked front stage curtain stained the buckling ceilings and walls of downstairs offices, dressing rooms and rehearsal areas.
But in the days that followed, it became clearer than ever to the founders and staff of the Joyce, once a rundown movie house with sagging seats and a floor like flypaper, that the theater occupies an important place in New York's dance life. 
 "The support was incredible," Lisa Lawer, executive director of the Joyce, said yesterday. "Within three hours after the flood was discovered, employees and friends had come in to start mopping up. Almost every dance company that has performed at the theater sent messages of support. Lots of donors sent small contributions with notes saying things like 'a little something for a rainy day.' This theater is very loved."
A maintenance man discovered the flood early on the morning of Aug. 10, a Saturday in the middle of a summer engagement by the Feld Ballets/NY, the Joyce's resident company. The volunteer mop brigade worked three 16-hour shifts and by Monday night the Feld dancers were performing again, on a stage without a curtain to an audience that had wound its way into the theater past warning signs and still-damp areas.
"It was a miracle," Ms. Lawer said. "The insurance company told us that the first 24 hours of work saved the theater."
The flood, which caused over $500,000 in damage, was the result of a malfunctioning of a sprinkler system over the stage that had been mandated by the New York City Fire Department to replace asbestos curtains. Water poured into the theater for six hours. "It's a sensitive system, and I've heard other theaters have had problems," said Ms. Lawer. "There is material now that can replace asbestos. I think it would be great if the Fire Department considered options."
Despair over the damage soon turned to "wet jokes," as Ms. Lawer put it. "We were flooded with calls," she said, giving an example. And there were many calls and messages of support, along with three boxes of cookies sent by Merce Cunningham for the hard-working moppers.
"It was a terrible catastrophe," Mr. Cunningham said yesterday. "I think the Joyce has played a very good role in the theater world for dance. It's a kind of middle ground that's allowed so many companies to be seen in such a good venue, in a situation less complex than uptown. It's become a theater people go to to see dances. Everything can be seen there, and it's comfortable."
 
A New Stage
 The Indians -- and dancers with the 26 companies that will follow them into the Joyce during its 36-week dance season -- will have a new stage to perform on. And renovation work will continue through the spring. Yesterday, a week before the saxophonist Branford Marsalis opens at the Joyce for a three-performance engagement, the theater was full of workers hammering and sawing. Rusted stage lights lay about the floor, and sheets of wood were being laid down in the mirrored dancers' warmup room backstage.
The Joyce may have to cancel some or all of a dance season planned for next summer in honor of its 10th anniversary. But it will go ahead with the scheduled fall and spring seasons, despite a suggestion from the theater's insurance company that it close for repairs.
"There isn't another theater for these companies to go to if they're not at the Joyce," Ms. Lawer said. "A company can't go from a 100-seat loft space to City Center or Lincoln Center. Choreographers, like other artists, need time to grow and develop and do their work. And that is what the Joyce is here for, for companies of different styles, representing different cultures. We're not supporting one esthetic."
All dance performances are at least partly subsidized by the Joyce, which faces a 65 percent cut in government support this year. And education -- of dance companies, schoolchildren and adult audiences -- is an important part of the Joyce mission, Ms. Lawer said. An annual modern dance sampler season for smaller, newer troupes includes seminars on topics like advertising, budgeting and producing concerts. Audiences can attend regular post-performance talks with choreographers. And each engagement includes one free performance for children in New York City Public Schools. This year the Joyce will present eight Saturday family matinees, with reduced priced tickets for children. In another new program, the Pilobolus company will conduct workshops with ninth graders in two Chelsea schools.
These efforts may be paying off for the Joyce. Despite the recession, Ms. Lawer said, the Joyce's audience has grown over the past year. "This is an amazingly sturdy, strong little place," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lisa Lawer, executive director of the Joyce Theater, describing the damage that was done last month by a faulty sprinkler system. (C.M. Hardt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOYCE THEATER

ORGANIZATION: JOYCE THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (87%); BALLET (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); DANCERS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; LAWER, LISA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



133 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: Aides' Pay Pivotal to Nursing Homes' Future

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEXAS CITY, Tex.

 BODY:
In the sluggish American economy, health care is one of the few industries that has rapidly grown and prospered. But not everyone in the field has shared in the bounty: about 1.5 million workers -- mostly nursing home aides and mostly women -- are still paid close to the minimum wage of $4.25 an hour.
Now, industry officials say that dam is about to burst. Workers at the bottom of the health-care system should soon see big wage increases -- just as governments, insurers and health-care providers themselves are desperately seeking ways to keep costs down. 
 The officials say irresistible pressures are building behind the aides' wages. The population of the United States is aging, so hundreds of thousands more aides will be needed to care for the elderly in the 1990's.Unions are redoubling efforts to organize the workers. A Federal law now requires formal training and certification of aides, which enhances their value. And nursing homes want to stem the rampant turnover in personnel that plagues them.
 
Growing Financial Pressure
 "It's a real crunch issue," said Vincent Shepherd, the Texas regional human resources director for Beverly Enterprises of Fort Smith, Ark., which owns the College Park Care Center, a nursing home in this city 40 miles southeast of Houston. With 860 of the nation's 19,000 nursing homes, Beverly is the biggest operator in the business.
Van Ellet, a senior analyst for the American Association of Retired Persons, said low Medicaid payments to nursing homes, more than the tightfistedness of nursing home operators, account for the aides' low pay. In many cases, the wages are too low to lift aides above the poverty line and off welfare. "I think it's boiling over right now," Mr. Ellet said. "You're seeing some of the pressures coming on state Medicaid budgets."
The College Park nursing home has 111 residents, up to 104 years old. Of its 95 employees, 42 are aides; the rest are registered nurses, practical nurses, kitchen and maintenance workers and office workers.
One aide, Darlene Jefferson, said she enjoyed her work though it made most people squeamish, including many of the younger adults who have entrusted 1.5 million of their elders to nursing homes.
"I'm a bath tech," Mrs. Jefferson said. "I have 15 to bathe a day. I bring them to the shower room down the hall. They sit on a chair. I'll wash them and rinse them off and dry them. I'll wash their face, brush their teeth.
"It makes them feel good. It makes me feel good. I love what I do. Because of the residents themselves, the people who live here. They love you at times. Some of them are mean and hateful, but after you do things for them, they'll kiss you and hug you and love you for doing it."
Mrs. Jefferson is proud of her work. She said she could manage changing adult diapers, the strains of lifting residents and enduring the slurs of the demented. Her sole complaint is the pay.
After working 26 of her 47 years in nursing homes, Ms. Jefferson earns $4.46 an hour, or $8,700 a year, from her 37 1/2-hour work week. Separated from her husband, the mother of five with one child still at home qualifies for $66 a month in food stamps.
She cannot afford the company's health insurance plan, which would cost about $350 a year for herself and $1,300 if she included any children. So, like most Beverly nursing aides, she cannot count on receiving the kind of care that many of her patients received during their working lives -- or on getting the care in her old age that she gives them in theirs.
 
Effect on Health Budget
 Even at current wage levels, aides are an important factor in the cost of health care because there are so many of them. Aides are the people who work most closely with nursing home residents in dealing with their day-to-day needs, keeping them clean and fed and monitoring their vital signs. They make up about a fifth of the nation's 6.8 million health-care workers, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. About 60 percent of them, one million, work in nursing homes; most of the rest work in hospitals. Some men, usually called orderlies, do the same work and are paid about 10 percent more. But 91 percent of all aides are women, and 31 percent of all aides are black.
Without Medicaid, fewer of these people would have jobs, fewer old people would have care and fewer nursing homes would survive. More than half of nursing home residents lack the personal resources or private insurance to pay for their beds, so Medicaid pays. But the Federal Government and many states set limits on Medicaid payments. These limits have been rising, but not enough to permit significant wage increases.
Medicaid in Texas pays $54 a day for a patient at College Park, not much more than the rate for a room in nearby motels. The 10 percent of College Park's residents who are private patients pay $85, more than the home needs to keep them. So they, like private patients generally, help subsidize the care of the indigent.
 
Desire to Go Home
 College Park is a sprawling one-story structure in a residential neighborhood. Its patients wear white wrist bands embedded with a magnetic strip that sets off a deafening beeper when they try to slip out the door.
One recent afternoon, the beeper went off every 15 minutes. A woman in her 80's was trying to go home to Galveston and, she told aides, get married. "They've always got their minds on going home," said Glenora Keeling, 84, a good-humored, brightly dressed widow in a wheelchair.
Beverly Enterprises has weathered bouts with the courts over trying to keep out labor unions and charges of mistreating patients at a few homes. But not here.
"Some of the non-Beverly homes, they have no standards," said Orell Fitzsimmons, head of Local 100 of the Service Employees International Union, which represents College Park workers. "Beverly has certain standards. You have to give them credit for that. This is a clean home. It is well kept up. It doesn't smell."
The staff makes it that way. Donna Hadley, 31, wears a badge labeled "environmental services." She cleans 20 rooms a day along with the public restrooms and hallways. She is single and has no children. Still, she needs more money. She is thinking of looking for a second, part-time job, rather than leaving College Park for a job that pays more.
Many residents stay in their rooms because they are bedridden. Of those who can get around, the lucid among them seemed chiefly absorbed in the personal lives they have built for themselves and activities the home organizes, like bingo and sing-alongs.
Ludmilla Thurmond, 73, a widow with Parkinson's disease, seems more concerned with learning to cope for herself than with her confinement. Her knees are flat, with six-inch-long scars of deep incisions across them. "I haven't walked for eight or nine years," she said. "When I came here, I couldn't do nothing for myself. Now they still have to put on my shoes and my pants. But I take my own shower and I put myself to bed. I push my wheelchair. When I need help, they help me."
Janet Morris, the nursing home's administrator, called the turnover among aides "horrendous." She said four of every five aides she hired were gone within a year. Paul Willging, executive vice president of the American Health Care Association, the nursing homes' lobby, said the annual turnover for the industry generally was closer to 100 percent.
The problem will become even more acute as demand for nursing home care rises, with people living longer and with the surge of Baby Boomers who will start retiring in 15 or 20 years. At the same time, it is becoming harder to find qualified aides because Federal law now requires that they have two weeks' training and be certified.
Some recruits, usually unskilled women who are trained on the job to be aides, find the work demeaning and quit. Some, Mrs. Morris said, take a job just to earn a little money, and then leave. Still others move from nursing home to nursing home in pursuit of tiny wage increases of 5 cents or 10 cents an hour or bigger increases in hospitals.
High turnover can help keep a nursing home's costs down because workers who stay so briefly never move much above the minimum wage. But it also undermines one of the homes' selling points -- continuous warm relations between residents and aides.
Mr. Willging said turnover would probably rise because of a widening gap between nursing home wages, an average of $5.18 an hour nationwide last year and held down by Medicaid reimbursements, and hospital aides' wages of $7.20, which are less subject to Medicaid influence. To keep their employees from fleeing to hospitals, the nursing homes will need to pay more, he said.
The gap could widen even more because of new union pressure on hospital wages. In April, organized labor won an important battle with the hospitals in the United States Supreme Court. Having trouble organizing hospital workers, unions argued that hospitals stacked the deck against them by permitting bargaining units of only large groups of employees who perform very different jobs and have divergent interests.
Supporting a National Labor Relations Board ruling, the Court agreed that unions could split the employees into as many as eight units, each with common interests, like nurses, technical workers and maintenance personnel. Unions believe the decision will make it easier to enroll workers.
A 10 percent increase in the nursing home aides' wages, now ranging from $8,500 to $12,000 a year, would add about $1.5 billion to the nation's annual nursing home bill, or $1,000 per patient, unless the homes found ways to cut other costs or to train each aide to take care of more patients.
The effect on the nation's total health-care spending, currently about $700 billion, would be small. But in health care, as in all industries, higher wages for the lowest-paid workers tend to affect the wages of workers above them. So the effect could be much greater.
The kind of worker the nursing homes covet is one like Deborah Phifer, 19, a single mother of two young children. She transferred two months ago from a job in the kitchen to one caring for patients.
"I take their vital signs," Ms. Phifer said. "I get them up for breakfast, help them dress, feed some, make sure they're O.K. and dry and looking good." She earns $4.30 an hour, or $8,385 for her 37 1/2-hour week, which puts her $2,034 below the Census Bureau's 1990 poverty line for a family of three.
Ms. Phifer could train to be a registered nurse and earn $30,000 a year. But she said she wanted a career as an aide. "I don't want to be a registered nurse," she said. "They have so much paperwork. I want to work with the people,." she said.
Along with the wages, a drawback of the aides' job for many workers is having to face the deaths of their patients, four in July at College Park.
"You just do all you can when they're living," said Erma Tezeno, 59, an aide at the home for 17 years. "All you can do is make them as comfortable as you can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I love what I do," said Darlene Jefferson, a nursing home aide, who helped Glenora Keeling at the College Park home in Texas City, Tex. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BEV (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (55%); NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (55%); SIC8059 NURSING & PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES, NEC (55%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT SMITH, AR, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GGNSC HOLDINGS LLC (55%); AARP INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); FORT SMITH, AR, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MEDICAID NURSING HOMES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); AGING (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); MEDICAID (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



134 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Factory Fire Leaves Pall Over 'All-American City'

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAMLET, N.C., Sept. 4

 BODY:
Red, white and blue banners proclaiming Hamlet as an "All-American City" fly from poles all over town. But today the boast of those proud banners was eclipsed by American flags flying at half-staff and by a steady stream of funeral wreaths being hauled out of the local floral shop.
This town, which sprang up 94 years ago in the piney flats of southeastern North Carolina, is in a palpable state of shock over the fire at the Imperial Food Products plant that left 25 workers dead and 55 others injured. 
 Late this afternoon, almost 36 hours after the fire broke out at the poultry processing plant, small clusters of people were still gathered on street corners and in front of stores, talking about the fire, their voices often hushed.
 
Sorrow and Bitterness
 Many people who lost loved ones or friends in the fire expressed bitterness about the deaths and injuries. They acknowledged that the plant provided significant employment for residents in the area, but they were deeply concerned by reports that many of the victims of the blaze were trapped in the building by locked exits.
"This was unnecessarily caused," said Doris Fairley, who lost her sister-in-law, Peggy Anderson, and her son-in-law, Jeffrey Webb, in the fire. "Peggy cried every day about how much she hated working there. Jeffrey got killed by going back and helping others."
Whatever investigators ultimately blame as the cause of the fire and the resulting deaths and injuries, complaints about poultry plants and working conditions in them are commonplace throughout the South.
 
'We'll Be Together Again'
 In many ways poultry plants have replaced textile mills as the main target of workers' complaints in the South. And as with textile workers, poultry workers evince a bittersweet ambivalence about their employers and place of employment, mixing grousing about $5-an-hour pay and repetitive, mind-numbing work assignments with acknowledgments that, without the plant on the edge of town, there might be no bread on the table at home.
"When they told me about this I just felt like somebody just took me and flipped me over," said Flora Banks, who lost her 24-year-old daughter, Margaret Teresa, in the blaze.
"The first feeling was being bitter toward the plant," Mrs. Banks added as she left the police station here after seeking information about Miss Banks's death. "But God works together for the good of all. We all know that one day we'll be together again."
The Mayor of Hamlet, Abbie Covington, and the Richmond County Sheriff, R. W. Goodman, called the Imperial plant fire "the worst thing that ever happened" to this community of 6,100 railroad workers, poultry processers, textile mill hands, storekeepers and homemakers.
"The economy here had slowed like everywhere else, but we were doing all right until this hit," said Betsy McNair, the manager of the Hamlet branch of the Southern National Bank.
Hamlet and Richmond County seemed to be weathering the recession reasonably well because the local economy is more diversified than that of many other rural areas of the South.
 
Something Out of a Movie
 Over the years, poultry and plastics plants have moved in to pick up the slack left by the decline in the railroad industry and cyclical bounces in textiles. In fact, Hamlet was faring so well that it had managed to put up a new city hall and a new library and had succeeded in getting its hospital back on a sound financial footing. It had even persuaded a Hollywood studio to film a movie, "Billy Bathgate," on lower Main Street, where the century-old stores and shops look like something out of, well, a movie.
But that said, some people were having a hard time making it. Out on the edge of town, near the charred Imperial plant, the paved, leafy streets that run past prosperous-looking homes with rambling porches in the center of town give way to rutted clay, litter and battered public housing.
Still, Hamlet felt reasonably blessed until the first fire alarm sounded Tuesday morning.
"The people who run the 'All-American City' contest were impressed enough to name Hamlet as one of those cities last year," said Don McLain, the executive director of the Richmond County Chamber of Commerce.
 
Toll on Mind and Body
 But here in Hamlet, as in many towns where there are poultry plants, a few people have found that however badly they need the work, they cannot tolerate poultry processing.
For some there is too much gore, too many noxious odors. For others the unrelenting pace of the processing line wear the mind and body to the breaking point.
"I worked in there for eight days once," said Theresa White as she stood looking at the remains of the Imperial plant. "Then I quit. Slavery time's been over. I just couldn't do it anymore."
But for more than 10 years, some 200 residents of Hamlet and surrounding towns have showed up at the Imperial plant daily for their work shift. Elsewhere in Richmond County 950 other workers show up daily at a poultry plant run by Perdue Farms, one of the largest poultry processors in the United States.
 
A $1.5 Billion Industry
 Poultry is now the biggest farm enterprise in North Carolina, eclipsing even tobacco, and North Carolina is now the fourth-largest poultry-producing state in the country. In all, 24,000 North Carolinians are involved in growing, slaughtering and processing chickens, sending more than half a billion to market every year with an estimated value of more than $1.5 billion.
The state's agriculture experts like to brag that if all the drumsticks processed in the state each year were laid end to end the line would encircle the globe four times.
"Chickens are a very important industry to us," said Tom Smart, a former Mayor of Hamlet who runs Mabry Drug on Main Street, just down from the Prepare Your Hearts Church and across from the old movie house, where the last picture show played so long ago that no one can remember how long it's been.
"Chickens have helped keep us going here in Hamlet," Mr. Smart added. "The railroad is still important here, especially since it pays good salaries and good retirement. But you always want to keep a good economic mix to stay healthy. After all, when the movie people came here they didn't have to do a whole lot of fixing up to the buildings to make the place look antique."
What of Hamlet's future?
There was no word today from the Imperial plant about when, or whether, it would open again. But, despite the tragedy here, the chicken business in North Carolina, and for that matter much of the South, seems headed generally for still more expansion.
Agriculture specialists note that the consumption of chicken in the United States is steadily growing, standing now at more than 70 pounds a person annually, compared with less than 10 pounds in the early 1950's.
That growth has been propelled in large part by consumer concern over the fat content of many other types of meat and, more recently, by the increasingly availability of chicken in fast-food stores.
The Imperial plant here specialized in supplying the fast-food market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL FOOD PRODUCTS

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL FOOD PRODUCTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAMLET (NC); NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN FACTORY FIRES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); FIRES (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); POULTRY PROCESSING (89%); POULTRY (89%); TEXTILE MFG (86%); TEXTILES (86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); FABRIC MILLS (68%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR JEFFREY G WEBB (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



135 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Texas Mother Gets 15 Years In Murder Plot

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Wanda Webb Holloway pleaded for mercy today, but a jury sentenced her to 15 years in prison for trying to arrange a killing to further her daughter's ambitions as a junior high school cheerleader.
At a sentencing hearing this morning, the 37-year-old Mrs. Holloway tearfully apologized for her mistakes and asked for probation so she could make amends to her intended victim, the mother of her daughter's chief rival in cheerleading competitions. 
 "I'm totally humiliated," she said.
Mrs. Holloway was convicted Tuesday night by the same jury on a charge of solicitation of murder. In addition to the 15-year prison term, the jury fined her $10,000 for plotting a murder that was never carried out.
 
Call for Life Sentence
 The prosecutor, Assistant District Attorney Michael Anderson, had asked the jury to sentence her to life in prison, the maximum punishment possible. "Give Wanda Holloway what she paid for," he said at the hearing. "Wanda Holloway paid good money for a life."
The jury also heard from Verna Heath, the woman Mrs. Holloway was willing to pay $2,500 to have killed. "I've had nightmares at night and when I get in my car, I'm afraid to start the engine because I've often felt like my car was going to blow up," Mrs. Heath said today.
The chief evidence presented by prosecutors was tape recordings of six conversations between Mrs. Holloway and her former brother-in-law, Terry Harper. Although Mrs. Holloway never explicitly discussed a killing, the prosecutors contended that she had asked Mr. Harper to a hire a professional hitman to do away with Mrs. Heath and possibly also her daughter, Amber.
Mr. Harper, an unemployed pipefitter with a long criminal record, testified that he went to the police after Mrs. Holloway first told him of her desire to do away with the Heaths and that he was then equipped by detectives with a hidden microphone.
According to the prosecution, Mrs. Holloway ordered the killing on Jan. 28 when she gave Mr. Harper a pair of diamond earrings as a deposit on the fee to be charged by a professional hitman. In a conversation recorded that day, Mr. Harper asked her, "You want her dead?" She replied: "I don't care what you do with her. You can keep her in Cuba for 15 years. I want her gone."
While Mrs. Holloway never explained her reference to Cuba that day, her bizarre comment evidently made an impression on the jury.
After the sentence was announced this afternoon after two-and-a-half hours of deliberations, one juror, Tim Evans, was asked by reporters to explain how the jury arrived at the length of the sentence.
 
Sentence as 'Poetic Justice'
 "For one reason," he said, "she mentioned something about wanting her to go away for 15 years and it seemed to be poetic justice in a way."
Mrs. Holloway showed no emotion when the sentence was announced. Immediately afterward, she leaned over and hugged her 13-year-old daughter, Shanna, goodbye. Mrs. Holloway was then taken to the Harris County Jail.
In her trial testimony, Mrs. Holloway admitted that Shanna's failures to win a spot on the cheerleading squad had driven her to an irrational jealousy of Mrs. Heath and her daughter, who proved to be a star cheerleader. But Mrs. Holloway insisted that she was joking in the tape-recorded conversations and never seriously wanted to harm Mrs. Heath.
Mr. Evans and other jurors told reporters that the tape recordings convinced them of Mrs. Holloway's guilt. He said: "The tapes, you could not get away from the tapes. It's damning evidence." He dismissed her defense, saying: "She laughed a lot, but she wasn't joking. It was not a joke."
Mrs. Holloway's lawyer, Troy McKinney, said tonight that he planned to appeal the verdict.
Mr. McKinney cited as probable grounds for an appeal a decision by a state district judge, George Godwin, to exclude two defense witnesses. He said the two would have told the jury that Mr. Harper and his brother, Terry, Mrs. Holloway's former husband, had previously offered to help arrange killings. The defense contended that Mrs. Holloway had been entrapped into the murder-for-hire scheme by the Harper brothers.
Mrs. Holloway was also charged with solicitation of kidnapping, but the jurors entered no verdict on that count after the judge instructed them that she could only be found guilty of trying to arrange either a murder or a kidnapping, but not both.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jury in Houston sentenced Wanda Webb Holloway to 15 years in prison for plotting the murder of the mother of her daughter's cheerleading rival. Mrs. Holloway leaving court on Tuesday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (66%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (66%); TEXAS, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) SENTENCING (92%); JURY TRIALS (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); MURDER (90%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CHEERLEADING (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, WANDA WEBB; SURO, ROBERTO MICHAEL J ANDERSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



136 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: A Combustible Contest In a Smoldering Brooklyn

SERIES: Neighborhood Politics: Choosing the Council -- An occasional look at the races for New York's new City Council.

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The City Council race in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn would seem to have all the ingredients for a Bonfire of the Vanities: Susan D. Alter, an incumbent Council member, is a white, Jewish woman married to an Orthodox rabbi, who is running in the 45th District, which is more than 75 percent black. Among her seven black rivals in the primary, she counts Colin A. Moore, the fiery lawyer and community advocate who is currently at the center of the racial conflict of neighboring Crown Heights, where he represents a family whose child was killed by a car driven by a Hasid.
But while the oratory between those two candidates occasionally resounds at a pitch worthy of Tom Wolfe, to residents of this working-class, mostly Caribbean immigrant community in the 45th District, Mr. Moore and Ms. Alter have much in common. Both are well known, powerful Brooklyn personalities with shallow roots in the immediate East Flatbush neighborhood.
 
A Note of Skepticism
 "I don't think it's right for people to come into a community just to get elected," said Terri Duncan, a longtime resident of East Flatbush. She paused and added a note of skepticism that is widely shared in her neighborhood, "But then I don't like the ones who live here, either." 
 Ms. Alter is not exactly a new face in East Flatbush; she represented a part of it for more than a decade until last year, when her district lines were redrawn in an attempt to create a Caribbean-American district and increase the chances of a black representative being elected. Ms. Alter was drawn into the neighboring predominantly white district represented by a fellow incumbent and Orthodox Jew, Noach Dear.
Rather than run against him, Ms. Alter sued, charging racial discrimination. When a three-judge panel ruled that this year candidates could run in any district, regardless of their place of residence. Ms. Alter chose East Flatbush, where she retained part of her former base, and where the seven black candidates were likely to fragment the vote and allow her to slip into the lead.
Mr. Moore, a Guyana-born lawyer whose clients have included the woman who sparked the Korean grocery store boycott in Flatbush and a defendant in the Central Park jogger case, has received attention throughout the city, but had not been a particularly active member of the East Flatbush community. "Why did he come here, and how long will he stay?" Mrs. Duncan said. "That sets people's antennas off."
Mr. Moore, who says he lives at his father-in-law's house in the area -- a residency some opponents have questioned -- said he was aware of some residents' misgivings. "I see the necessity of being active in my little space," he said, "but I believe in serving people wherever they are."
Outside interest in the 45th District has been heightened by East Flatbush's proximity and similarity to Crown Heights: both formerly white, middle-class neighborhoods that over recent decades have been flooded with new immigrants from the West Indies. Problems are similar, too: high unemployment among black youths, crime, poverty and drugs.
But behind the shabby thoroughfares lined with storefront shops hawking driving lessons, tax preparation and cheap travel are quiet side streets of brick row houses and handsome brownstones. There are fewer public housing projects in East Flatbush than in Crown Heights, and many more privately owned single family homes.
 
A Diminishing Minority
 Whites, though a rapidly diminishing minority, still live in parts of the area, but there is no separate, insulated Jewish area like the Hasidic community in Crown Heights. Friction between ethnic groups exists but is far less pronounced than in Crown Heights. Reynold N. Mason, a local lawyer who is acting as Mr. Moore's campaign manager, conceded, "I don't see much tension here."
Since the Crown Heights incident, Mr. Moore has only made a few campaign appearances in East Flatbush. He has repeatedly said the passions that flared up in Crown Heights would surely spill over into his district and galvanize voters. Mr. Moore explained in an interview last week that it was to his advantage that "Crown Heights happened just before the election, accentuating what I have been doing." The media attention, he said cheerfully, spared him from having to spend money on advertising.
"I have tremendous name recognition," he said. The disadvantage, he said, was that "it prevents me from doing a lot of campaigning."
Those candidates who have been knocking on doors, holding kaffeeklatsches and handing out leaflets to rushing, largely indifferent passers-by spoke indignantly of Mr. Moore as a political carpetbagger. "Colin Moore is making a lot of noise," said Ed Roberts, a lawyer, originally from Trinidad, who is one of the field of eight. "I'm not running for president of the A.N.C.," he said sardonically, referring to the African National Congress, "I'm running to represent this district."
 
A Widespread Refrain
 Skepticism about Mr. Moore's commitment to East Flatbush was a widespread refrain. "I don't see how representing paying clients in court over there can be taken as community service here," said N. Nick Perry, chairman of Community Board 17, who is also running. Mr. Perry, an affable, precise man who long toiled at the more prosaic community issues of garbage removal and neighborhood watch committees, said he viewed the race as between himself and Ms. Alter.
So did James T. Conolly, a Democratic district leader who describes himself in his campaign literature as the first black man elected to any position in the 42d Assembly District. Ms. Alter, who supported David N. Dinkins in the 1989 mayoral primary, has considerable black support in the area. Mr. Conolly, in contrast, was the only black elected official to endorse Edward I. Koch in the last mayoral primary and had garnered significant support from white voters in previous elections.
C-PAC, the political action committee established by Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone to support incumbents, is throwing its weight behind Ms. Alter, while the Majority Coalition, a political action committee established by progressive union leaders, endorsed Mr. Moore. Ms. Alter, calling in a political i.o.u., has sought an endorsement from Mayor Dinkins, but so far the Mayor has been reluctant to support the only white candidate in a district that was deliberately carved out to favor a black candidate.
 
Not Eligible to Vote
 The crowded area south of Church Avenue has the largest concentration of Caribbean-Americans in New York City. As candidates who have paced outside subway exits for hours trying to shake the hand of even just one registered voter can attest, many in the area are not American citizens and therefore not eligible to vote. There are fewer than 41,000 registered voters in a population of about 140,000 residents -- one of the lowest percentages in Brooklyn. The largest groups of registered voters are blacks, with 76.7 percent; whites, 16.8 percent, even though they make up 13.6 percent of the population; Hispanic, 5.6 percent, and Asian-Americans, 1 percent.
Ms. Alter, who because of her belated entry into the 45th District race got a late start in the campaign -- last week she was still struggling to fit an air-conditioner in her unfinished campaign office on Flatbush Avenue -- had by Aug. 8 raised almost twice as much as any of her rivals -- $37,301. She described Mr. Moore as her most pernicious rival. Of their contest, she added flatly, "Race is the name of the game." She accused Mr. Moore of attacking her for being white.
Mr. Moore responded that he has attacked Ms. Alter's performance, not her race. But then he quickly criticized the fact that her Council office was closed on Saturdays because of the Jewish Sabbath, citing it as an example that Ms. Alter "cannot identify with the community."
Janice L. Robertson, a novice who is running her election campaign out of her living room, is mainly known for having started a neighborhood block association to combat racism she encountered when she was the first black to move into an all-white neighborhood on East 49th Street. In debates, Mrs. Robertson, seeking to keep the peace, received generally good reviews from spectators. "I mean they attack each other," Mrs. Robertson said indignantly of the other candidates. "I'm acting like these grown men's mother."
While candidates try to measure the impact of race on the primary, voters seemed more interested in talking about the problems in their neighborhood. Adequate police protection -- and the lack of it -- was what preoccupied Daphne Hoppie, a seamstress and mother of three, originally from Guyana. "We'd just like to see it safe after school for our kids," Mrs. Hoppie said. "This is a really nice neighborhood; we just need more protection."
She, like others, angrily spoke of her perception that the Hasidic community in nearby Crown Heights received far more police protection than her neighborhood. Yet she also criticized Mr. Moore as exploiting the tension between blacks and Jews. "Guyanese people don't like it when you are too loud," she said. "We feel good that he has come this far, but why is he allying himself with someone like Al Sharpton?"
"I don't care," she added, "if a politician is black or white; we just want the person who can get the job done."

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the voting-age population and percent of registered voters between Asians, Hispanics, Whites and Blacks. (pg. B5)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting the 45th district. (pg. B5)
 
Table: "The City Council Races: 45th District"
 
Candidates
 Susan D. Alter (D), 49, City Councilwoman since 1978. Former teacher, co-founder and past president of Flatbush Development Corporation.
 Weyman A. Carry (D), 55, assistant safety director for the Transit Workers Union. Affiliated with 42d Community Democratic Club.
 Francis J. Clarke (D), 66, assistant civil engineer in the office of Borough President. Former school teacher. First chairman of the Charles Drew Housing Development Corporation.
 James T. Conolly (D), 46, community relations specialist, Human Resources Administration. Democratic district leader, former member of Community Board 17.
 Colin A. Moore (D), 50, lawyer. Former assistant district attorney in Bronx County. Member of the board of the Center for Law and Social Justice at Medgar Evers College.
 N. Nick Perry (D), 41, former union organizer. Chairman of Community Board 17. Affiliated with New Era Community Democratic Club.
 Edward A. Roberts (D), 43, lawyer. Director of housing litigatrion at Bedford Stuyvesant Community Legal Services Corporation, former member of the board of trustees of the City University.
 Janice L. Robertson (D), 46, community organizer and sensitivity trainer. Founder of East 49th Street Block Association of Flatlands.
 
Finger in the Wind
 Even though Susan D. Alter, who has represented a portion of the newly drawn 45th District for 13 years, is running in a district that is more than 75 percent black, she has high name recognition. the seven black candidates will likely fragment the vote. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GUYANA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; EAST FLATBUSH (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); GUYANA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; PRIMARIES; BLACKS (IN US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); JUDGES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ALTER, SUSAN D (COUNCILWOMAN); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA THOMAS KENNERLY 'TOM' WOLFE JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



137 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: James H. Fogelson, 48, Lawyer And Supporter of Jewish Causes

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
James H. Fogelson, a corporate lawyer based in Manhattan who was active in Jewish affairs, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
One of his partners, Martin Lipton, said he died of lung cancer. 
 Mr. Fogelson was a senior partner in the firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. His practice involved mergers and acquisitions, securities law and corporate counseling. His clients included investment banks as well as corporations.
Mr. Lipton, the senior partner in the Wachtell firm, said yesterday that Mr. Fogelson had been skilled at drafting legal documents "and very creative in the structuring of transactions."
For years Mr. Fogelson had been active in fund raising within the legal community and in other ways on behalf of the American Jewish Committee and the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York. He won the Learned Hand Award of the American Jewish Committee in 1989 and is to be the posthumous recipient, in December, of the Proskauer Award of U.J.A.-Federation.
Mr. Fogelson was born in Manhattan, graduated from the Horace Mann School and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1964. He graduated in 1967 from the New York University School of Law, where he was an editor of the law review and a Pomeroy Scholar.
 
An Adjunct Professor
 He then went to work at the Wachtell firm and was promoted to partner there after three and a half years.
He was also an adjunct professor at the New York University law school.
Mr. Fogelson's numerous philanthropic activities included past service as chairman of the lawyers division of U.J.A.-Federation. Its communications manager, Jeff Prince, said yesterday that it is the largest local philanthropic organization in the world and provides financing for social services in New York, Israel and the Jewish communities in more than 30 countries.
Mr. Fogelson is survived by his parents, David and Gertrude Fogelson of Manhattan. The elder Mr. Fogelson was a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Schwartz & Frohlich, which no longer exists.
He is also survived by his wife of 24 years, the former Phylis Polakoff; a sister, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; and two sons, Robert and Matthew, both of Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James H. Fogelson (Lea Treitman, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (91%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (83%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED JEWISH APPEAL - FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NEW YORK (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (83%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (83%); UNITED JEWISH APPEAL - FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NEW YORK (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHARITIES (88%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MERGERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); LUNG CANCER (57%); CANCER (57%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (56%); 

PERSON: FOGELSON, JAMES H; PACE, ERIC MARTIN LIPTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



138 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
Because of a production error, an article on Monday about the declining influence of labor unions included scrambled paragraphs in some copies that truncated the identification of a labor expert and rendered a quotation from him incompletely. The expert, Greg Tarpinian, senior economist at the Labor Research Association, a labor advocacy group in New York, said: "There's a much higher level of debate within the labor movement over the kinds of demands that labor should make on the Democratic Party. We've had a decade of openly reactionary anti-labor rule by Republicans, and the Democratic Party has yet to come up with an alternative."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CORRECTION STORIES; LABOR UNIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



139 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: BAKER ASKS DELAY ON ISRAEL AID BID;
Israel Plans Big Deficit

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 4

 BODY:
With Israel poised to ask the United States for $10 billion in loan guarantees to help absorb new Soviet immigrants, the Government approved a budget proposal today that some political commentators here warned could undercut Israel's case in Washington.
The proposed budget for 1992 includes a projected deficit that is higher than the Finance Ministry had wanted and that critics say may fuel American concerns about Israel's economy. 
In addition, the Government suddenly reduced, from 250,000 to 200,000, the figure it is using for the number of Soviet Jews that it expects to arrive here next year.
The shift appeared to be largely a budgetary maneuver. With events moving as rapidly as they are in the Soviet Union, Israeli officials acknowledge that they have no way of predicting precisely how many immigrants to expect in coming months.
Nevertheless, some commentators asserted that the lower forecast could leave Israel vulnerable to arguments that it needs less American aid.
The newspaper Haaretz said today that the proposed budget "will cast doubts over Israel's ability to pay back its debts, and raise fears that the repayment will fall upon the American taxpayer."
The loan guarantees have been developing into a contentious issue. A report on the Israeli state television Tuesday said President Bush had promised unidentified Arab leaders that there would be no loan guarantees unless Israeli halted its settlement activity in the occupied territories. But some Israeli officials challenged the report's reliability, saying that they knew of no such linkage and that if it were made they would reject it.
Israel calls the requested guarantees a form of humanitarian aid, to be spread over five years and intended to help provide housing, schools, roads, hospitals and jobs for up to a million Soviet Jews expected to come here by 1994. More than 300,000 have arrived in the last two years.
The aid does not involve actual American loans of $10 billion. Rather, it means that the United States would serve as ultimate guarantor should the Israelis fail to pay back money they expect to borrow from commercial banks. With Washington's backing, Israel would be able to get more favorable interest rates and terms than it could on its own credit rating.
But under American law, the Administration must set aside a reserve in case of possible default. This would involve an outlay of cash -- possibly hundreds of millions of dollars in addition to the $3 billion in yearly economic and military aid that Israel now gets -- and it could become a political issue in the United States.
Washington has sought to connect the guarantees to Israeli commitments to reshape an economy considered overly dependent on centralized planning, stumbling along with 20 percent inflation and high unemployment that some forecasters say could climb to 14 percent in two or three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



140 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Toward a Soviet Re-Union

 BODY:
The collapse of the centrally controlled Soviet Union leaves a frightening void. It's no wonder that Soviet leaders are struggling to create a new confederation that decentralizes power but retains elements of unified control. Americans who welcome the impulse to escape the stifling grip of centralized power can also welcome these aspects of a limited re-union.
One compelling reason for cooperation is the short-term need to forestall economic collapse. Two other problems are just as worrisome. The world will not breathe easily until there is firm control of the 27,000 Soviet nuclear weapons. And without a compact among the republics, it will be harder to prevent or contain explosive ethnic clashes between and within republics. 
 All the 15 republics except Russia have declared some form of independence, most in the two weeks since the failed coup. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia fervently intend to secede. Others, like Kazakhstan, want to distance themselves from the old centralized structure while strengthening themselves for bargaining over new rules to govern relationships with the center. Still others, like the Ukraine, are desperately trying to ride, and contain, nationalism.
The nationalist fervor loosed by the collapse of Communism could inflame problems that some central structure might ease. Republics understandably want to insulate themselves from inflation and depression. But a burst of economic nationalism could be self-defeating, especially if it further impedes a free flow of goods and investment between republics.
The republics can do without union, but if they mean to reverse the nation's present economic plunge, they will need common internal markets, tight controls on money and firm protection for private contracts.
The arms control question begins to look more manageable given Russia's willingness to become the repository for the Soviet nuclear arsenal and the apparent desire of other republics like the Ukraine and Kazakhstan to divest themselves of their nuclear weapons. In any case, central authority is needed to avoid any relaxation of tight controls over weapons that could devastate the world.
The dangers posed by explosive nationalism are already evident in violent ethnic clashes like those between Azerbaijan and Armenia. A new structure at the center could facilitate negotiations among republics, help protect minorities and keep the peace. That's why Armenia, which previously asserted its independence, is now prepared to join nine other republics and President Gorbachev in proposing articles of confederation.
The new institutional arrangements to cope with disunion would bring the republics together as sovereign equals. A state council, consisting of Mr. Gorbachev and republic leaders, would coordinate all foreign and domestic issues. An interim inter-republican economic committee to "coordinate management of the economy" would have equal representation from each of the republics. And an upper house of parliament would have delegates representing the republics.
Economic cooperation . . . firm nuclear control . . . rational nationalism: the soundest way to achieve all three is for the republics to construct a new commonwealth. Communist misrule has sown popular distrust of all central authority. But chastened Soviet leaders are right to fight for some limited re-union.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); COUPS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TRENDS (67%); POLITICS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



141 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Thinking '92: Voters Have Got to Care Again;
The Roosevelt Upset

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Allow this lifelong Republican and firm Bushophile to cite a bit of history for Democrats who believe their party's 1992 Presidential nomination isn't worth striving for. It is to be found in "The Brains Trust," an account of how Franklin D. Roosevelt came to be elected President in 1932, written by Rexford G. Tugwell, a leading figure in that effort. 
 After winning election as Governor of New York in 1928 in the face of Herbert Hoover's landslide Presidential victory, Roosevelt found himself bitten by the White House bug. His first move was to persuade the State Legislature to change the governor's term from two years to four.
Thus when he was re-elected in 1930, he was able to plan a 1932 Presidential run without having to risk his position in Albany.
From the beginning, Roosevelt and his inner circle -- the Brains Trust of Raymond Moley, Basil O'Connor, Samuel I. Rosenman and Tugwell -- concentrated on winning the Democratic nomination and gave much less thought to the election, which they expected Roosevelt to lose.
President Hoover, who had headed relief efforts to a starving Europe in the aftermath of World War I, still commanded enormous public respect. He would be an incumbent running for re-election.
And although the country fell into an economic depression in 1930-31, the steps taken by the Government -- less Federal spending, higher tariffs to protect domestic industry, increased taxes for the well-off -- were widely applauded. When President Hoover declared that "prosperity is just around the corner," people believed him.
The expectation of the Brains Trust was that Roosevelt, if nominated, would lose respectably to Hoover -- by less than a landslide. Meanwhile, he would have become known to the entire country and established an identity for himself separate from that of his cousin Theodore Roosevelt and the former President's son, with whom he was often confused. Finally, after being returned to Albany in 1934, he could run for President in 1936 as a twice re-elected Governor of the country's most populous state against a Republican who, because of the no-third-term tradition, would be a nonincumbent. All this plus the argument that after 16 years of Republican Presidents the time for a change had come.
The Roosevelt group held to this view through the convention and the summer of 1932. Only in September -- as the Depression worsened and Hoover holed up in the White House, apparently not knowing what to do next -- did it dawn on them that Roosevelt could actually be elected. Roosevelt stepped up his campaigning, the bandwagon began to roll, and in November he won in a landslide.
 
D. M. MARSHMAN JR.
Darien, Conn., Aug. 13, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1932 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (65%); WORLD WAR I (51%); 

PERSON: ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



142 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Nebraska Senator Comes to Brink Of Democratic Bid for Presidency

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska edged closer to a race for the Democratic Presidential nomination today, saying he would formally announce his plans in late September but leaving little doubt among Democrats that he intended to plunge in.
Mr. Kerrey's statement, issued this afternoon, came after two weeks of rising speculation about the Nebraska Democrat, a first-term Senator, a former Governor and a Medal of Honor winner who lost part of his leg in Vietnam. 
 Mr. Kerrey's move reflected a sudden quickening in the race for the Democratic nomination, coming one day after former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California announced he was forming a Presidential exploratory committee..
Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, for four months the only declared major candidate in the race, said he welcomed the entry of new candidates. "I've been debating myself," said Mr. Tsongas, who in a speech at George Washington University today called for "a new Marshall Plan" to aid the Soviet Union.
Mr. Kerrey's brief statement declared: "My interest in running for President is based upon the belief that the possibility of a better future 20 years from now will be determined by our actions today. I will make a formal announcement of my plans toward the end of September."
Mr. Kerrey, 48 years old, earlier said he would make his decision before returning to Washington next week when Congress ends its summer recess. Today's statement, while still giving Mr. Kerrey the option of backing out, was taken by some party professionals as a signal that he would, in fact, enter the race but wanted more time to organize a candidacy.
"What he's trying to do is set up a way to make sure people know that he's inclined to run, but wants to put the pieces in place so that he can run well when he begins running," said a Democrat close to Mr. Kerrey, who spoke on condition that he not be identified.
The statement today allows Mr. Kerrey more time to orchestrate a formal announcement, when a candidate usually tries to make the most of his moment in the limelight -- particularly important in a campaign starting so late.
Paul Tully, the political director of the Democratic National Committee, said of Mr. Kerrey and his supporters: "Everything we see is that they're on recess, I think he got a much better sense of the void that was out there in the public debate, that the case wasn't being made very well against Bush," said the Democrat close to Mr. Kerrey.
Moreover, the withdrawal of several leading Democrats, including Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, and Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, has left the field wide open for a new generation of Democrats like Mr. Kerrey to step into the fray.
"I think he brings a real star quality to the race, maybe more so than anybody else who's a candidate or potential candidate save Mario Cuomo," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic polltaker.
Mr. Kerrey, widely seen as the kind of outsider candidate who might fare well in 1992, ran for office for the first time at the age of 39, waging, and winning, a dark-horse race for the governorship in 1982.
 
Tsongas Urges Aid to U.S.S.R.
 Mr. Tsongas came to Washington today with a foreign policy address in which he sought to outline policy responses to the developments in the Soviet Union.
"I propose that America take the lead today in promoting a new Marshall Plan," he said. "The issue is not whether we can provide aid. We must provide aid. If George Bush can find $2 billion to add to 'Star Wars,' he can take some of the NATO money and provide it to the Soviet Union."
Mr. Tsongas added, "This winter in the Soviet Union, America can buy more defense with food aid than with additional missiles."
He also took the opportunity to attack his own party, arguing that "the reason we don't win the White House is because the country doesn't trust us with the economy -- and they're right."
Mr. Tsongas said the party should foresake "corporate bashing, class warfare, protectionism" and adopt policies encouraging economic growth and job creation.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 1991, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture in some copies yesterday showing a man without a jacket, with an article about the Presidential aspirations of Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, was published in error. The man pictured was Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Kerrey, who said yesterday he would formally announce his Presidential nomination plans later this month. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (57%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (57%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; KERREY, BOB (SEN) AL GORE (59%); JERRY BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



143 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Ford Tinkers With Design of Taurus

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 4

 BODY:
So few models introduced by the American automobile industry in the 1980's qualify as success stories that it is little wonder the Ford Motor Company has been slow and cautious in revamping its formidable Taurus family sedan.
Sure enough, the new 1992 Ford Taurus and the twin Mercury Sable shown to journalists here today have only a few cosmetic exterior changes, like narrower headlights and a more sloping hood. The cars carry engines and transmissions nearly identical to those in the models they replaced. The biggest changes are redesigned interiors that are sleeker and more modern-looking. 
 The freshened-up cars run little risk of alienating buyers who have liked the Taurus since the 1986 model first went on sale in the fall of 1985. But with sales and market share slumping, Ford executives found themselves pressed today to explain why even such seemingly small changes took so long.
 
'Not Apologizing'
 "The customers are satisfied," declared Alex J. Trotman, Ford's executive vice president for North America. "Quality is high. Value is high. We are not apologizing."
In defending Ford's strategy for midsize cars, Mr. Trotman and others speaking at a news conference at Ford's Taurus and Sable assembly plant here said the company could bring out new models just as quickly as its Japanese competitors if necessary. Ford executives said they were convinced that their conservative path was prudent.
The original Taurus was acclaimed for its rounded, almost futuristic look and thoughtful creature comforts, like ergonomical driver controls and switches. Fritz Mayhew, a top Ford designer, recalled that Ford executives were extremely nervous in 1985 about introducing the first American car that lacked a grille.
More important, the Taurus soon became the best-selling car in the United States, helping to lift Ford profits to record levels. Wordwide sales of the Taurus and Sable peaked at 541,806 in 1988. Last year, sales were 447,883. Meanwhile the Taurus has been passed by the Honda Motor Company's Accord, which has undergone a series of face lifts.
Also troublesome for Ford, the Toyota Motor Corporation's new 1992 Camry is bigger and has a more powerful engine than last year's model and may give Taurus a run for the No. 2 spot. And the new Oldsmobile 88, made by the General Motors Corporation, and the Chrysler Corporation's new midsize models are due next year.
Ford does not plan to thoroughly redesign Taurus and Sable until 1995, 10 years after the initial $3 billion introduction. That means Ford will be able to delay spending the $5 billion to $6 billion needed for the overhaul of the engine, chassis and body.
Mr. Trotman said Ford's 1992 lineup, which also includes a restyled pickup truck, redesigned Econoline van and redesigned full-size models, represents a hefty $5.6 billion investment.
 
'Ford's No. 1 Problem'
 Some auto industry analysts have criticized the long replacement cycle.
"Ford's product renewal cycle is 10 years or more, while the Japanese are doing it in 4," said James Harbour, a manufacturing consultant to the automotive industry. "The market won't stand this any more. It's Ford's No. 1 problem."
"We have a broad range of vehicle types at Ford, unlike the Japanese, and it's not feasible to change them that often," Mr. Trotman said. "The life cycle of certain products like sporty coupes is short, but in others it is longer and more stable."
Ford dealers, who have depended heavily on the Taurus's popularity for their financial well-being, applauded the changes at their convention last month in Las Vegas, Nev., and the redesigned Taurus and Sable seem to be getting a generally warm reception from the dealers. Some said the new designs had freshened the cars' looks without straying too far from the design that helped make them so successful.
"We've got a good product, and you don't change your winner," said Ralph Paul, general manager of Bob Townsend Ford in Cincinnati. Mr. Paul added that Ford's decision to closely follow its original design will help maintain values of the used cars, which drop when a complete redesign of a car is introduced. "They're fantastic merchandise on the used car lot," he said.
From a financial perspective, waiting 10 years to spend the big money on Taurus may allow Ford to reap strong profits now, money the auto maker will need to pull out of its current doldrums. With current demand for cars still weak, overcapacity rampant and the number of competitive models growing, Ford in any case might not have been able to increase sales or command higher prices no matter how advanced the Taurus.
The new Taurus will carry a preliminary base sticker price of $15,503, though models with popular options, like air-conditioners and power windows, will cost more than $17,000.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 1991, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursday about the new Ford Taurus misidentified the car that was America's best seller before being surpassed by the Honda Accord two years ago. It was the Ford Escort, not the Taurus.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Loath to tamper with success, the Ford Motor Company will not fully redesign its Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable line until the 1995 model year. The 1992 Taurus has only minor differences from previous models. (Ford Motor Company)
 
Graphs: "Before the Remake, Slipping Results" shows worldwide sales from '85-Aug. 20, '91, and market share from '86-'90 of Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (62%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; DESIGN AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); WRITERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MARKET SHARE (68%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



144 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: The Bastille And the Kremlin

BYLINE: By Simon Schama; Simon Schama, professor of history at Harvard University, is author of "Dead Certainties (Unwarranted Speculations)."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
A reactionary military coup is thwarted in a capital city when soldiers defect to the representatives of the people. A ruler whose allegiances are suspect is returned to the city in a brief triumph that leaves him politically disabled.
Rejoicing crowds surge through the streets bearing the new colors (red, blue and white) that symbolize the birth of a free nation. Public opinion, unchecked by censorship, demands food and identifies plotters for retribution. Euphoria and fearfulness march together while the world looks on, its congratulations edged with anxiety. 
 Moscow in the summer of 1991? No, Paris in the summer of 1789.
Facile analogies are, no doubt, the historian's professional vice. We take pains to reprimand politicians who mutter "Munich" when any international crisis impends and to insist that differences are as instructive as similarities. But sometimes it becomes impossible to resist the feeling of ghostly recurrence.
During the last weeks, Russian and Soviet historians have been reminded of the March Revolution of 1917 or the subsequent botched putsch of Kornilov, the czarist general, in the summer of the same year. And on this page, Anthony Lewis has drawn attention to the American Constitutional Convention as a rehearsal for the problems of Federal state-making.
But any historian of the French Revolution is going to be struck even more forcibly by parallels between the events in Russia and those in 1789 and may be inclined, as a result, to see dark clouds overshadowing the silver lining.
Like the Soviet Union, the monarchy of Louis XVI was an overextended empire, trying to be a global power while failing the elementary test of legitimacy: feeding its people. In a desperate attempt to break with a centralized command economy, liberal governments experimented with deregulation that in the short term made things worse. The regime ultimately collapsed from its ruler's fatal inconsistency in the application of reform and his reluctance to embrace representative institutions that could give these changes a democratic sanction.
Will the elegant, plausible Mikhail Gorbachev ultimately suffer the fate of the portly, inarticulate Louis XVI? Let us hope not. But to follow the parallel further is not especially cheering.
In 1991, as in 1789, the explosion of freedom, the sense that reactionary coercion had been frustrated by the people's will and the ritual desecration of symbols of tyranny (the Bastille and Dzerzhinsky Square) have acted as brief distractions from insuring that food is distributed.
Two hundred and two years ago, though, a chill autumn followed a blazing summer. The harvest was known in advance to be poor, bread had failed to materialize except at high prices, riots erupted and politics turned ugly.
The great beneficiary and hero of the summer events, the Marquis de Lafayette (like Boris Yeltsin) eventually became the object of suspicion. Lafayette was able to hold power only by sanctioning public acts of retribution against those held criminally responsible for the people's plight. Whole classes of people along with the institutions that had dominated the old regime were now stigmatized as enemies of the Fatherland.
Here, too, the parallels are already extraordinary. The Communist Party of the Soviet Union has been a combined version of the French Catholic Church and the nobility: both tepid theology and grossly privileged elite. Like the party, the church saw its buildings turned to civic functions, its assets confiscated and sold off in an attempt to create a viable currency.
This is not to say that there are not important differences. War, after all, as much as economic disaster and political chaos, was the condition for the nightmare of the Jacobin Terror. Yet France in 1793, like the Soviet Union today, was riven by regional tensions. Bordeaux and Marseilles were as alienated from Paris as Yerevan and Tbilisi are from Moscow.
However loudly revolutions in great nations invoke principles of universal liberty and solidarity, the engines of their anger are invariably stoked by a sense of wounded patriotism that comes dangerously close to xenophobia.
In France, that sentiment fired a war with the monarchies of Europe that lasted more than 20 years and consumed millions of lives before its heat was spent. The calamity began when the beleaguered revolutionary nation began to read the defensive indifference of the great powers first as selfish gloating and then as outright hostility.
Of course, the Gorbachevs do not have relatives ruling the powers of Europe who would be tempted to intervene in their fate. Nor is there a Communist Pope (despite Fidel Castro's eminent qualifications for the office) who might excommunicate anyone associated with the revolution. Should the nomenklatura be dispatched to a richly merited political oblivion, its fate would be genuinely less tragic than the tens of thousands beheaded on the guillotine.
In the end, the differences may count for more than the similarities. And the new Russian Revolution may turn out to be closer to the American than the French experience.
But historically, America has been unique in its capacity to move from the fires of liberation to the cooler work of federal state-building. Up to our own day, a temperate revolution has been an oxymoron. Perhaps in our time it can become a reality.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; FRANCE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; HISTORY ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); RIOTS (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); 

PERSON: SCHAMA, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991



145 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Encouraging Clue Points to Recovery

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
CHANGES in the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates may be the best means of forecasting business-cycle turning points. When short rates are lower than long -- as they are now -- the economy tends to grow. But when long rates drop below short, recession looms.
Over the last 25 years, movements in te "term structure" of interest rates, or yield curve, have correctly predicted all the major peaks and troughs in the United States business cycle, according to Prof. Campbell R. Harvey of Duke University's Fuqua School of Business. 
 Unlike other indicators, the yield curve has put out no false signals. In the third quarter of 1968, the curve began an inversion, changing its slope from positive to negative, and correctly signaled the recession of 1969-70, which started five months after long rates dropped below short rates.
The yield curve inverted two months before the 1973-75 recession began. In the fourth quarter of 1978 and in the fourth quarter of 1980, the yield curve inverted, recovered and inverted again, correctly predicting the double-dip recessions of 1980 and 1981-82, which some economists see as one recession.
How about the latest recession, which may or may not be over? The Administration attributed the onset of the recession to the outbreak of the Persian Gulf crisis in August 1990. But the inversion of the yield curve in the second quarter of 1989 had predicted the downturn that began five months later -- the average lag between inversions and recessions.
But so slight was the inversion in the last three quarters of 1989 that it was unclear whether the economy was facing recession or just a spell of sluggish growth. The inversion in the third quarter of 1989 was only 30 basis points (with long-term rates just three-tenths of 1 percent below shortterm rates). By comparison, the inversion in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 340 basis points (3.4 percent), correctly predicting the deep recession of 1981-82.
In July 1990, with the yield curve positive again, Professor Harvey correctly predicted that the economy would begin its recovery about the middle of 1991. That forecast now appears to be on target. The index of leading indicators posted a sharp increase of 1.2 percent in July.
But the downward revision by the Commerce Department of the preliminary estimate of the growth of gross national product, corrected for inflation, in the second quarter to minus three-tenths of 1 percent from positive four-tenths of 1 percent has made some economists dubious about the end of the recession.
For his part, Mr. Harvey holds that the present upward sloping yield curve signals a robust recovery, not a weak or moderate one, as most economists are forecasting. Using a model based on the yield curve, he forecasts real growth of 3.5 percent from the second quarter of this year through the second quarter of 1992. But he concedes that his model is better at forecasting turning points than rates of growth. He underestimated the degree of the current recession. But it was still milder than earlier recessions. From the third quarter of 1990 to the second quarter of 1991, real G.N.P. declined 1.1 percent, compared with the 3.3 percent in the recession of 1981-82, 2.3 percent in 1980 and 4.4 percent in 1974-75.
Expectations of a stronger recovery can now be based on the steepening slope of the yield curve. Measured by the spread between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes, the yield curve has grown more positive in the last 12 months: Long-term rates were 80 basis points higher than short rates in the third quarter of 1990, 90 in the fourth quarter of 1990, 160 in the first quarter of 1991 and 230 in the second quarter. This week the spread between three-month T-bills and 10-year notes was 244 basis points. This steepening curve gives no sign of a double-dip recession ahead, in contrast with the correct anticipation of the double-dip recessions of 1980 and 1981-82.
What explains the ability of the yield curve to call business cycle turning points? Most people are risk averse: if they expect hard times, they will try to even out their future income flows by shifting money into secure, longer-term assets, thereby bidding up their prices and reducing their yields. To finance such purchases, they will sell short-term assets, reducing their prices and raising their yields. Thus, the normally positive yield curve goes negative in advance of recessions.
But the typical yield curve was not always positive. The new addition of Sidney Homer's classic "History of Interest Rates," revised and updated by Richard Sylla, reveals that during the 19th century and the first three decades of the 20th century, short-term paper rates averaged far higher than did prime long-term bond yields. The yield curve went positive during the Depression of the 1930's, when short-term yields plunged, and has stayed positive most years since.
On the statistical record of the last quarter century, the yield curve has been a good forecaster of economic growth and recessions. But borrowers and lenders cannot really see the future or the shocks that will change it. So no economic forecasting model can be perfectly reliable, not even one based on interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION YIELD CURVE (93%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



146 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drag; Dow Closes Unchanged

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
The stock market ended the day exactly where it began -- at 3,008.50 points for the Dow Jones industrial average. The market traded in a narrow range and volume was about the same as the day before, reflecting an uncertainty that has kept many investors on the sidelines.
Much of the sluggishness shows a wait-and-see attitude by many investors in advance of August employment statistics due today from the Labor Department. The statistics could provide a clue as to the current state of the economy, which many analysts see as teetering between recovery and recession. 
 Volume of the New York Stock Exchange was 162.2 million shares, with declining stocks outnumbering advancing stocks by a 6-to-5 margin. The American Stock Exchange fell 0.63 point to close at 369.36 and the over-the-counter market fell by 0.99 to close at 516.93.
Market analysts said yesterday that investors were in search of some news to persuade them to buy or sell. In the absence of any such news, trading remained lackluster.
 
Little 'Selling Conviction'
 "The market lacked much selling conviction, but it doesn't yet have an injection of favorable news to push it sustainably into new high territory yet," said Eugene Peroni, director of technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.
Still, Mr. Peroni felt the market displayed "good tenacity" in sustaining its current level in the face of few clear indicators. "The market has held up stubbornly in the face of what seems to be a lot of uncertaining about the economic and monetary outlook," he said.
Still, the much-awaited employment statistics may not provide as strong a clue as investors would like to give the market strong direction. Strong employment numbers are generally considered to be a bullish sign. At the same time, however, weakening numbers could also be interpreted as a good sign by investors since rising unemployment might force the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy with lower interest rates.
But some see the today's flat market as deceptive and say its underpinnings are far weaker than what the composite numbers might suggest. Robert Moseson, president of Performance Analytics in Chicago, said: "The Dow may indicate that the market is flat. But internals suggest anything but that."
 
Some Bearish Signs
 Mr. Moseson feels that the market is displaying bearish signs -- with more stocks falling than rising, volume remaining sluggish and a weakening appetite for over-the-counter stocks. "These are all symptoms that the bears are beginning to win," he said.
Among individual stocks, the most actively traded was Exxon, which rose 7/8 to close at 58 3/4. It was reported yesterday that an out-of-court settlement for damages from the 1989 Valdez oil spill appeared unlikely before Exxon's criminal trial begins on Oct. 7.
Shares of the Limited, a retailer, fell $2 to close at $25 3/8 after the company announced that it expected flat August sales. Wall Street had expected the retailer to report a slight sales gain.
Pepsico shares also fell by 1 1/4 to close at $29 7/8 because of an announcment a day earlier from Borden Inc. that expected lower profits because of a sluggish economy. The company's snack foods division was particularly affected, and Pepsico, which owns Frito-Lay, a snack food company, fell in sympathy.
IBP, a meat processing company, saw its shares fall $3 to close at $16. This is because Occidential Petroleum, which is putting its 51 percent share in IBP up for sale, has valued its holdings at $15 a share in a rights offering to Occidential shareholders. IBP shares had been trading at around $19.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); OIL SPILLS (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



147 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Trading Is Sluggish In Advance of Job Figures

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most currencies yesterday in quiet foreign exchange dealings, as traders waited for the release of the United States employment data for August.
Gold prices fell. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery was quoted at $347.00 an ounce, down $1.50. New York's Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $346.70, down $2.15. 
 Few currency traders were willing to take substantial speculative positions in advance of the employment report, which was scheduled for this morning.
 
Rise in Unemployment Expected
 "We have the whole market anticipating that Friday will be very, very active," said Bill Nevius, a trader for Chemical New York Capital Markets. Many analysts expected the unemployment rate to rise to 6.9 percent, from 6.8 percent in July.
Traders said a sudden rise in unemployment might force the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates to stimulate the economy, a move that would make the dollar less valuable.
Dan Scherman, a currency trader for the Bank of Boston, said the market largely ignored a Labor Department report yesterday on weekly unemployment insurance claims, which held at 421,000 for the week ended Aug. 24.
Other analysts said the prospect of fall elections in Britain helped lower the pound against the dollar.
In London, a pound cost $1.6925, less than the $1.6940 late on Wednesday. In New York, sterling cost $1.6940, less than Wednesday's $1.6950.
Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar settled at 135.32 Japanese yen, less than Wednesday's close of 135.85. Later, in London, it rose to 135.85 yen. In New York, it closed at 135.70 yen, up from 135.50.
Other late New York dollar quotes, compared with Wednesday's prices, included: 1.7380 German marks, up from 1.7365; 1.52595 Swiss francs, up from 1.5240; 5.9030 French francs, up from 5.8995; 1,295.50 Italian lire, up from 1,295.00, and 1.14105 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1419.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $347.50 an ounce, down from $348.95 late on Wednesday. In Zurich, gold fell to $347.25, from $348.70 late on Wednesday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $1.49, to $348.33.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



148 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Soviet Resolutions: 'The Will of the Republics and the Interests of the Nation'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Following are the texts of two resolutions approved today by the Congress of People's Deputies, as translated by The Associated Press:
Resolution of the U.S.S.R. Congress of People's Deputies on measures resulting from the joint statement of the U.S.S.R. President and top officials of republics and the decisions of the extraordinary session of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet: 
 The coup d'etat committed on Aug. 19-21, 1991, endangered the process of the formation of new union relations between sovereign states. The resulting situation may lead to dire consequences inside the country and in relations with foreign states.
The elimination of the coup and the victory of democratic forces delivered a serious blow to reactionaries and all that held back the process of democratic transformations. Thus, a historic chance was created for the acceleration of radical transformations and the renewal of the country.
In order to prevent the further breakup of power structures, the U.S.S.R. Congress of People's Deputies proclaims a transition period for forming a new system of state relations based on the expression of the will of the republics and the interests of the nations.
 
UNION OF SOVEREIGN STATES

The Congress has resolved:
1. To approve in the main proposals resulting from the joint statement of the U.S.S.R. President and top officials of union republics and the resolution of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet on the situation created in the country in connection with the coup d'etat.
2. To accelerate the preparation and signing of the treaty on the Union of Sovereign States, in which each state shall able to define on its own its form of its participation in the union. The new union must be based on the principles of independence and territorial integrity of states, the observance of the rights of the nations and the individual and social justice and democracy.
3. To work out and conclude interrepublic agreements (treaties) on economic, monetary-financial, scientific and technological cooperation, ecological security and defense of the rights and freedoms of the citizens, on the principles of collective security and defense, while preserving a single armed forces and single control of nuclear and other arsenals of the means of mass destruction.
The Interrepublic Economic Committee shall begin immediately to work out and conclude a treaty on the economic union, which would have an open character: the participation in it would not be tied to the signing of the Union Treaty.
4. The U.S.S.R. President, the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet and the State Council shall provide the legal succession of power and government and guarantee a peaceful and orderly transition to a democratic civil society.
5. During the transition period, all international agreements and obligations adopted by the U.S.S.R. shall be strictly observed, including those in the sphere of arms control and reduction, human rights and foreign economic relations.
To support the aspiration of republics for their recognition as subjects of international law and for consideration of the question of their membership in the United Nations.
6. All state organs, institutions, organizations and officials shall insure the observance of the rights and freedoms of the people which are proclaimed and guaranteed in the U.S.S.R. Constitution, the Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, the laws of the U.S.S.R. and republics, as well as freedom of the press, freedom of conscience and the right to establish political parties, trade unions and public unions.
7. While respecting the declarations of sovereignty and acts of independence adopted by republics, the congress stresses that the gaining of independence by republics which have chosen to refuse to join the new union necessitates negotiations with the U.S.S.R. to resolve the entire complex of problems relating to secession, as well as their immediate joining in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and other important international treaties and agreements, including those which guarantee the rights and freedoms of the individual.
 
THE TRANSITION PERIOD

Law of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the organs of state power and government of the U.S.S.R. in the transition period:
Article 1. The supreme representative organ of power of the U.S.S.R. in the transition period is the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet, which consists of two independent chambers: the Council of Republics and the Council of the Union.
The Council of Republics consists of 20 deputies from each union republic selected from the members of the U.S.S.R. Congress of People's Deputies and the deputies of the union republics, who are delegated by the supreme organs of state power of those republics.
To account for the federative structure of the R.S.F.S.R., it has 52 deputies in the Council of Republics. Other union republics that incorporate republics and autonomous formations will additionally delegate one deputy from each republic or autonomous formation into the Council of the Union. To insure the equality of republics during the voting in the Council of Republics, each republic shall have one vote.
The Council of the Union is formed by deputations of union republics out of the members of the U.S.S.R. Congress of People's Deputies in accordance with current quotas and with the agreement of the supreme organs of state power of union republics.
Article 2. The Council of Republics and the Council of the Union of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet jointly decide to introduce changes into the U.S.S.R. Constitution and to admit new states into the U.S.S.R., and hear reports of the U.S.S.R. president on the most important questions of domestic and foreign policies, approve the union budget and the report on its execution, announce war and conclude peace.
The Council of Republics adopts decisions on the organization and the order of work of union organs, ratifies and denounces international treaties of the U.S.S.R.
The Council of the Union considers the questions of insuring the rights and freedoms of citizens of the U.S.S.R. and adopts decisions on all issues in the jurisdiction of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet excluding those which are in the jurisdiction of republics. Laws adopted by the Council of the Union take effect after their approval by the Council of Republics.
The supreme organs of state power of the republics have the right to suspend on the territory of the republic the laws adopted by the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet, only if they contradict the Constitution of the union republic.
Article 3. The U.S.S.R. State Council is established on an interrepublic basis for coordinated solution of the questions of domestic and foreign policies which affect the common interests of republics. The U.S.S.R. State Council consists of the U.S.S.R. President and the top officials of the union republics named in the U.S.S.R. Constitution. The U.S.S.R. President directs the work of the U.S.S.R. State Council. The U.S.S.R. State Council determines the order of its work. The decisions of the U.S.S.R. State Council have a mandatory character.
Article 4. The position of the U.S.S.R. Vice President is annulled.
If for any reason the U.S.S.R. President is unable to continue to carry out his duties (including reasons of health, confirmed by an opinion of a state medical commission formed by the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet), the U.S.S.R. State Council elects out of its members a chairman of the U.S.S.R. State Council who temporarily carries out the duties of the U.S.S.R. President. This decision must be confirmed by the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet within three days.
Article 5. Union republics form the Inter-Republic Economic Committee on the basis of parity to coordinate the government of the national economy and to coordinate the implementation of economic reforms and social policies. The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the U.S.S.R. President with the agreement of the U.S.S.R. State Council. The U.S.S.R. President and the U.S.S.R. State Council direct the work of the union organs responsible for the questions of defense, security, law and order and international affairs.
The Interrepublic Economic Committee and the leaders of union organs are responsible for their activities to the U.S.S.R. President, the U.S.S.R. State Council and the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet.
Article 6. The status of U.S.S.R. People's Deputies is preserved for the duration of their term of authority, including the right to participate in the work of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet and its organs.
Article 7. The first session of the new U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet with the new membership shall be called by the U.S.S.R. president not later than Oct. 2, 1991.
For the period before the beginning of the work of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet with new membership, the current U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet retains its powers and it may be called into session by the chairmen of the Chambers.
Article 8. The provisions of the U.S.S.R. Constitution are still valid inasmuch as they do not contradict this Law.
Alterations of the U.S.S.R. Constitution which are adopted by the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet take effect after their ratification by the supreme legislative organs of all union republics.
Article 9. This law takes effect from the moment of its publication, with the exception of Article 2, which takes effect from the moment of the opening of the first session of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet new membership.
 
M. GORBACHEV,
President, U.S.S.R.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An unidentified Soviet Army general listening to a speaker at the Soviet Congress (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION APPROVALS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COUPS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICS (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



149 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasury Issues Weaken

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Optimistic comments about the economy by two Federal Reserve officials outweighed actual data released yesterday showing that conditions remained weak in August, and credit market participants sold Treasury notes and bonds, pushing prices down and interest rates up.
As has been true all week, trading activity remained extremely light. Most dealers, and their retail accounts, were unwilling to establish new positions before August employment data are released this morning. 
 In separate comments, John P. LaWare, a Fed governor, and Robert Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said essentially the same thing: The recession has ended and a recovery is under way.
Early in the day, Mr. LaWare had said that growth in the second half of the year should average between 3 and 4 percent. Later on, Mr. Parry said he expected 3 percent growth over the next 12 months.
 
Shift in Expectations
 On the eve of the employment report, the comments weakened somewhat the expectation among some market participants that the Fed would move fairly quickly to ease short-term interest rates.
"The consensus opinion is that the employment report will force the Fed to move," said William V. Sullivan Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. "The question that remains is how quickly that will happen."
Dealers paid little notice to a series of reports that did little to buttress the views expressed by Mr. LaWare and Mr. Parry.
The Labor Department reported that initial unemployment claims totaled 421,000 in the week that ended on Aug. 24, unchanged from a week earlier. The figure left the latest four-week average of new jobless claims at 420,000, up from 406,000 a month earlier. Though a lagging indicator, initial claims tend to fall, not rise, during economic recoveries.
In addition to the claims numbers, auto makers reported that they continued to have trouble selling new vehicles during the last 10 days of August, as sales totaled a meager 6.1 million units at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Major retail chains also reported that sales were soft in August.
"It all boils down to the employment numbers," one government securities trader said.
In advance of the report, most analysts were projecting that non-farm payroll employment probably rose by between 20,000 and 40,000 jobs last month. An increase of that size might be sufficiently small to allow the Fed to ease policy, the analysts said.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 1/8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 100 11/32, down 14/32, to yield 8.09 percent, compared with 8.05 percent late Wednesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 1/4, down 7/32, to yield 7.83 percent. And the 6 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 3/32, down 2/32, to yield 6.32 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 5.32 percent, up a basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged, at a late offered rate of 5.36 percent.
 
Money Supply Up
 In addition to the comments by Mr. LaWare and Mr. Parry, prices of short-term securities softened a bit after the Fed reported late yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose during the week that ended on Aug. 26.
The gains were larger than anticipated. The $6.4 billion increase in M-2, the aggregate most closely followed by the Fed, pushed its growth rate back above the 2.5 percent level that is the low end of the Fed's target range for M-2 growth this year.
Continued weakness in M-2 growth has been cited by analysts as another reason why the Fed might move to ease monetary policy.
Activity in other markets remained light yesterday, traders said.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, prices of most issues dipped by about one-eighth of a point, market participants said.
And municipal-bond traders said that prices of most widely quoted tax-exempt issues were unchanged to down one-eighth of a point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOF (AMEX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ROBERT T PARRY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



150 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: S.& L. Profits Down by 37% In Quarter

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Earnings at private savings institutions slipped in the April-June quarter despite the most favorable interest-rate conditions in four years, the Government said today.
T. Timothy Ryan Jr., director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, blamed commercial real estate losses at about 10 large institutions for the 37 percent decline. 
 Institutions earned $387 million in the second quarter, down from $610 million in the first three months of the year. The figures do not include savings institutions that had been seized by the Government by the end of June.
 
No Comfort for Congress
 The deterioration in earnings offers no comfort for members of Congress, who will be looking this fall at doubling the taxpayer appropriation for the bailout of savings-and-loan associations. Congressional hearings begin next week on the Administration's request for a second $80 billion appropriation.
"Clearly the grim reaper is going to be making the rounds again," said Paul Getman, an economist at Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa.
Mr. Getman said that "literally hundreds more institutions" could be seized by the Government. "That means all of those estimates on the thrift bailout could be too low," he said.
Still, the most recent report was considerably better than the $302 million loss in the second quarter of last year and marked the first back-to-back quarterly profits since 1986.
"That is a significant and welcome sign of a rebounding industry," said Fred Webber, president of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions.
Mr. Ryan, however, noted that the slim profits were eked out at a time when the average interest that savings associations paid on deposits and other sources of funds was 6.94 percent, the lowest in nearly four years.
During the recession, rates on deposits have declined far more than rates on mortgages and other assets, widening the difference, or "spread," from which the savings institutions derive their earnings.
"Whether the interest-rate spread remains favorable is a question mark," Mr. Ryan said, refusing to predict the industry's performance in the second half of the year.
Mr. Ryan also attributed much of the industry's return to profitability to the Government's seizure of more than 600 failed savings institutions since passage of bailout legislation in 1989.
The figures reported today did not include 193 failed institutions under the control of the Resolution Trust Corporation, the bailout agency. Their losses will be reported separately later this month.
Also, industry earnings were bolstered by $462 million in continuing Government assistance paid to savings institutions under pre-1989 bailouts.
Mr. Ryan did not identify specific privately held institutions whose commercial real estate losses dragged down the industry average, but he said all were ones that had been audited during the quarter by agency examiners.
A number of publicly traded savings institutions have reported large second-quarter losses, including Glendale Federal Bank in Glendale, Calif.; California Federal Bank in Los Angeles; HomeFed Bank in San Diego; and Perpetual Savings Bank in Vienna, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (56%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY REPORTS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; REAL ESTATE SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); RECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANK FAILURES (75%); 

PERSON: RYAN, T TIMOTHY JR TIM RYAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



151 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Curtail Plans To Expand

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
American businesses, many with plants still idled by the recession, have cut back expansion plans to the slowest pace in five years, the Commerce Department said today.
Analysts said capital spending usually lagged behind an economic recovery, as businesses adopted a wait-and-see attitude before committing financial resources. 
 "Firms aren't anxious to put new equipment in place until their current capacity is used," said Joel Prakken, an economist with Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, a St. Louis economic forecasting company.
The Commerce Department said a survey conducted in July and August found businesses planning to spend $532.4 billion for expansion and modernization, 1.6 percent more than the record $523.8 billion spent in 1990.
But the increase would be a sharp cutback from the 3 percent advance projected in a Commerce Department survey last spring and the 3.2 percent increase that was forecast last winter. It would also be dramatically slower than the gains of 10.4 percent in 1989 and 9.5 percent in 1988.
Capital-spending growth slowed to 4.5 percent last year as the recession began.
 
'Pretty Good,' Considering
 Still, the 1.6 percent increase this year would be "pretty good when you consider the recessionary conditions since the fourth quarter of last year," said Thomas F. Carpenter, an economist with ASB Capital Management in Washington. "The fact that capital spending is up at all is significant," he said.
Both Mr. Carpenter and Mr. Prakken predicted capital spending would grow faster next year as business confidence rebounds and corporate coffers are refilled. Mr. Carpenter said he expected investment to expand by 8.5 percent in 1992.
Although capital spending inched up five-tenths of 1 percent during the first quarter of 1991, it sank 1.2 percent in the second. The Commerce Department survey projects that spending will increase 3.1 percent in the current quarter and five-tenths of 1 percent in the final three months of the year.
In addition to stimulating economic growth, business investment is a key to increased productivity, considered vital to improving Americans' standard of living without increasing inflation. The Labor Department reported today that productivity grew at an annual rate of just five-tenths of 1 percent during the second quarter, compared with an average of 1.6 percent annually between 1982 and 1989.
The figures for equipment spending have been adjusted for inflation. Before adjustment for inflation, the survey projected a five-tenths of 1 percent increase in business investment, to $535.1 billion, after gains of 5 percent in 1990 and 11.4 percent a year earlier.
Spending plans include a 3.3 percent decline for manufacturing companies and a 2.6 percent increase for companies engaged in mining, transportation and other nonmanufacturing businesses.
Manufacturers are forecasting investment spending of $186.2 billion. That figure includes a 5.3 percent decrease in spending by companies producing durable goods -- big-ticket items, ranging from washers to warships, expected to last at least three years -- and a 1.9 percent decline by those producing nondurable goods such as food and fuel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (75%); STATISTICS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



152 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Data on Jobless Claims Cast Doubt on Recovery

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new unemployment claims remained frozen at 421,000 in late August, the Government said today, in a sign that employers, skeptical about whether a recovery had taken hold, were still letting workers go.
In other weak economic news, the productivity of American workers rose at a mediocre five-tenths of 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter -- a much weaker performance than first believed -- while business investment plans were at a five-year low. 
 The numbers add up to an economy that has failed to make much headway toward recovering from the recession, analysts said.
 
'Crawling Out of a Hole'
 "In past recoveries, 'shot out of a cannon' is a typical phrase for describing the economy," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at the Boston Company. "What's happening here is crawling out of a hole."
The jobless claims report, which offered no encouraging news on the hiring front, may mean equally bleak numbers in Friday's unemployment report for August, analysts said.
In advance of the report, most analysts predicted that the jobless rate probably inched up to 6.9 percent from July's 6.8 percent. A separate survey of business establishments, analysts predicted, will probably show that the economy added relatively few jobs last month.
 
Jobless Claims Have Edged Up
 Today's jobless claims report from the Labor Department showed that for the week ending Aug. 24, the number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits failed to improve, holding virtually level with the four-week average of 421,000 from the previous week.
Rather than falling, as would be consistent with a recovery, the jobless claims number has actually crept up, on average, over the last month, analysts noted.
The latest four-week average of new jobless claims is at 420,000; a month ago it was 406,000, according to analysts who calculate the four-week average from the Labor Department statistics.
"The recovery isn't strong enough, and convincing enough, to employers that they're willing to go out and add to their labor force," said Robert Dederick, an analyst at the Northern Trust Company. "What's more, they continue to lop off staff," he said.
Mr. Sinai added that businesses were "keeping costs down by keeping head count down."
"In a weak recovery," Mr. Sinai added, "business has no other choice if it wants profits to improve."
Companies' reluctance to hire, in turn, holds back the economic recovery by keeping huge numbers of Americans on the unemployment line, analysts said.
 
Fed May Be Forced to Ease
 If August's employment numbers are weak enough, the Federal Reserve may be prompted to provide a fresh round of interest-rate reductions in an effort to keep the economy from weakening, analysts said.
"I think the Federal Reserve stands poised to ease unless this report is going to be convincing evidence that the expansion is becoming embedded," Mr. Dederick said.
In a separate report, the Labor Department revised its earlier numbers on productivity -- defined as output per hour of work -- to say it grew at an annual rate of five-tenths of 1 percent from April to June, rather than the 1.9 percent rebound first reported.
The poor second-quarter productivity growth followed dismal showings in the previous two quarters, when the nation's economy was mired in recession.
The downward productivity revision was not a big surprise, because the Government also recently revised calculations for April through June on overall economic growth. The gross national product, rather than increasing as first believed, actually fell slightly in the second quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BOSTON CO INC (69%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



153 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: 3 Latin Nations Agree to Ban Chemical Weapons

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 5

 BODY:
South America's three dominant military powers, Argentina, Brazil and Chile, signed a declaration today banning the development, manufacture and use of chemical weapons.
The signing by the Foreign Ministers of the three nations in the Argentine city of Mendoza was the latest in a series of steps taken in the region toward demilitarization and a scaling down of tensions that in the past have brought them to the brink of war. Another aim is to increase their international standing. 
 Military analysts here also noted that the agreement was a further step toward a broad integration of the economies in the region in an effort to become more competitive with Europe and the Far East.
"Fundamentally, this shows a change from a historical posture of conflict to one of neighborliness and cooperation," said Andres Fontana, a military specialist at the Center for the Study of State and Society here.
 
'A Good Sign,' U.S. Official Says
 Under the agreement, the three countries will also seek to control commerce in materials and technology that could be used to manufacture chemical and biological weapons.
"I think it's a good sign that Latin America is addressing the post-cold-war agenda," Bernard Aronson, Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America, said in Washington in a telephone interview. "It shows that democratization yields important dividends in terms of security and peace and that these countries are not going to make the mistake of being trapped in a regional arms race and waste precious economic resources."
All three countries have said that they have no chemical or biological weapons programs and that no such programs existed even during the years of military rule. Western diplomats and analysts generally agree with those statements.
The only country over which there is any uncertainty is Chile, which was ruled by the military until March 1990. Last month, the Argentine President, Carlos Saul Menem, voiced concerns that Chile might have the ability to produce chemical weapons.
Rosendo Fraga, an Argentine military analyst, said that up to a year and a half ago the Chilean military manufactured some unspecificed components of the chemical weapons stockpile of Iraq. Western diplomats here said there was concern that large weapons manufacturers in Chile might also have such ability.
 
Militaries Are Curbed
 Over the last year, all three countries, which for long periods in the 1970's and 1980's were ruled by military governments, have sought to curb either the size or influence of the military, both to reduce the economic drag on their economies and to improve their standing in the world.
Last November, Argentina and Brazil signed an agreement that renounced the manufacture of nuclear weapons. Brazil uncovered a secret nuclear bomb project begun by its military and ordered its destruction. Argentina, at the insistence of the United States, agreed this year to end a secret air force project to build a medium-range ballistic missile.
Chile and Argentina last month signed a broad agreement that settled all but two points of dispute on its borders. And in Chile the 18-month-old civilian Government of President Patricio Aylwin has been trying to exert more civilian control over its military.
"In terms of foreign policy these countries are saying that they are going to act like good boys," said a Western diplomat who asked not to be identified.
 
Agreement Not Binding
 But some noted that the agreement signed today was not a treaty and did not bind the countries. Nor does it specify on-site inspections or export control procedures.
The declaration is perhaps most significant for Argentina, Though there has been a general reduction in tensions and a move on the part of all three countries toward demilitarization, Argentina's reduction of its military might has been by far the most radical.
This is primarily because the country's economic situation has been so bleak and the Menem Government has put a high priority on economic stability and a balanced budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; CHILE CHILE (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



154 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Fell In August

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 5

 BODY:
In a sign of continuing sluggishness, sales of American-made cars and trucks fell 11.6 percent in late August from a year earlier, auto makers reported today.
The degree of weakness was surprising, said Harvey Heinbach, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, but he said it was premature to say whether the market was in an overall down trend. "We may see some renewed pickup in September and October," he said. 
 But Tom Webb, the chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, said: "These numbers make me skeptical that the overall economy can keep moving forward when the auto industry appears to be backing up."
In the 10-day period that on ended Aug. 31, cars sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.2 million units, compared with 7.2 million a year earlier.
 
Lower Annual Rate
 For the month, sales dropped 12.7 percent for domestic and imported cars, representing an annual selling rate of 6.1 million units. That figure compared with a rate of 6.8 million units in August 1990, and 6.8 million units in July.
The Big Three and the Japanese auto makers that operate factories in the United States sold 359,266 domestically built cars and trucks in late August, compared with 406,572 during the comparable period last year.
The number of domestically made vehicles sold by the Big Three was down 15.1 percent in late August, and the number sold by Japanese "transplants" was 1.2 percent higher. Thus, the Big Three's share of sales resulting from domestic production fell to 75.7 percent, from 78.8 percent in the 1990 period.
Sales of all American-built cars fell 15.4 percent in the late August period, to 217,569 units. The General Motors Corporation sold 87,589 American-built cars in the period, down 16.8 percent from a year earlier, and the Ford Motor Company sold 51,467 cars, down 18.1 percent. The Chrysler Corporation does not report 10-day sales, by it was estimated that the company sold 16,835 cars in the period, down 38.9 percent.
Of the transplant auto makers based in Japan, the Honda Motor Company sold 26,450 cars in late August, an increase of 4.9 percent; the Toyota Motor Company sold 22,483 cars, a drop of 1.3 percent, and the Nissan Motor Corporation sold 4,254 cars, a drop of 22.4 percent.
Sales of light trucks were off 5.1 percent, to 141,697 units, in the period. G.M. sold 48,849, a drop of 11 percent; Ford sold 44,301, a drop of 5.1 percent, and Chrysler sold 22,936, a drop of six-tenths of 1 percent.
For the entire month of August, sales of all cars and trucks, imported and domestic, fell 11.2 percent, to 1.03 million, from 1.16 million in August 1990. Car sales were off 12.7 percent, to 685,324, and truck sales declined 8.2 percent, to 350,042.
The Big Three's total vehicle sales in August, including imported models they sell, fell 13.7 percent; the Big Three captured 64.2 percent of the market, compared with 66.1 percent a year earlier.
 
Japanese Sales Off
 Sales by Japanese car makers, including vehicles built in the United States, fell 5.4 percent and captured 29 percent of the market in August, compared with 27.2 percent a year earlier. Vehicle sales by non-Japanese importers fell 10.5 percent, and their market share was steady at 6.8 percent.
G.M. sold 208,235 American-built cars in August, a drop of 13.6 percent from a year earlier; Ford sold 129,755, a drop of 15.5 percent, and Chrysler sold 44,135, a drop of 27.7 percent.
G.M.'s total market share for cars in August was 32.8 percent, compared with 33 percent in August 1990; Ford had 19.9 percent, compared with 20.7 percent a year earlier, and Chrysler's share was 7.5 percent, compared with 8.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "U.S. Vehicle Sales" shows seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for cars assembled in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, March 1990-August 1991.

 	 	 		 	 	August Car Sales*	 	 	 			Change		Unit	From		Sales	1990	 	 	 	G.M. 	208,235	-13.6%	Ford 	129,755	-15.5%	Chrysler 	44,135	-27.7%	Honda 	53,678	+18.9%	Nissan 	8,470 	-20.0%	Toyota 	39,820	-4.7%	Mazda 	6,365 	-31.9%	Mitsubishi 	6,260 	+60.2%	Subaru 	3,975 	-4.7%			 		 	 	August Light-Truck Sales*	 	 	 			Change		Unit	From		Sales	1990	 	 	 	G.M. 	119,776	-14.3%	Ford 	100,748	-14.2%	Chrysler 	62,336	+8.2%	Nissan 	12,559	-0.6%	Isuzu 	3,602 	+80.5%	
 
* Including vehicles assmebled in Canada and Mexico (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (81%); 7267 (TSE) (81%); TYT (LSE) (80%); TM (NYSE) (80%); 7203 (TSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (81%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (80%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (51%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (51%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (77%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



155 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Weak Sales for Last Month Are Reported by Retailers

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The nation's largest retailers yesterday reported weak August sales as consumers' confidence and spending failed to rebound.
The sluggishness was widespread. A Merrill Lynch index of the nation's 22 largest retailers showed a lackluster 1 percent increase in sales last month at stores open for at least a year, compared with their sales in August 1990. 
 "The August sales were quite disappointing and reflected the fact that consumers continued to be concerned about the direction of the economy," said Jeffrey M. Feiner, a retailing analyst with Merrill Lynch. Mr. Feiner said the August results reflected an economy operating in "slow motion."
 
Sears's Sales Off 2.7%
 Among the retailers reporting declines were the Sears Merchandise Group, where sales dropped 2.7 percent, to $2.56 billion from $2.63 billion, and J. C. Penney, whose sales dropped 3.4 percent, to $1.16 billion, compared with $1.2 billion a year earlier.
There were some notable exceptions to the weakness. In what is becoming a familiar refrain in retailing, the Gap Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. nimbly sidestepped the industry's malaise. Sales at the Gap were up 42 percent over all, compared with a year earlier, and up 21 percent at stores open for more than a year. Wal-Mart posted a 35 percent increase from August 1990, and a 10 percent gain at stores open for more than a year.
Aside from the economy, retailers said bad weather in some regions had hurt sales. Although the weather often serves as a catchall excuse for retailers, Hurricane Bob did cause a number of stores to close on the East Coast last month.
August retail sales, which include the back-to-school season, are considered an important indicator of the public's mood as the crucial Christmas shopping season approaches. There was little in the August numbers to give comfort to most merchandisers, many of whom had been forecasting improved sales in the fall.
"The bell for back-to-school rang, and the consumer didn't respond," Mr. Feiner of Merrill Lynch said.
Retail stocks have run up sharply since the beginning of the year, but based on the latest numbers some analysts said yesterday that the group would have a hard time maintaining its strong performance over the next few months. Nonetheless, Richard E. Pyle, an analyst with Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood Inc., in Minneapolis, said retail stocks were still likely to outperform the market for the year.
 
Retailers Expected to Be Cautious
 In reacting to the weak sales, retailers are likely to proceed as cautiously as consumers, keeping inventory levels low and a sharp eye on expenses, said Jeffrey Edelman, an analyst with C. J. Lawrence Inc.
Aside from the Gap, which specializes in stylish and affordable casual clothes, impressive gains were posted only by discount stores that offer a wide range of basic goods at bargain prices.
Wal-Mart, which uses the slogan "Always the low price on the brands you trust," sold $3.7 billion worth of goods in August, up 35 percent from the $2.74 billion a year earlier. Sales rose a healthy 10 percent at stores that had been open for more than a year. Changes in sales at stores open for more than a year is considered a good measure of a retailer's performance. Wal-Mart's share price rose 50 cents yesterday, to $50.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
K Mart's Sales Up 8%
 One of Wal-Mart's chief rivals, the K Mart Corporation, reported a sales increase of 8 percent for August. Same-store sales rose 2.9 percent. K Mart's share price tumbled $3 yesterday, to $43.50, after an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, David Poneman, downgraded his recommendation to "hold" from "buy."
The Target division of the Dayton Hudson Corporation posted a respectable gain, with overall sales up 13 percent and same-store sales up 6 percent. Target recently began to emphasize its lower-priced merchandise to increase sales.
"We are pleased with Target's resurgence," said Stephen E. Watson, president of Dayton Hudson. Sales were sluggish in the company's department-store and Mervyn's units. Over all, Dayton Hudson's August sales increased 8.4 percent, to $1.29 billion, compared with $1.19 billion a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year were up 3.5 percent.
Dayton Hudson's share price was unchanged yesterday, at $76.125.
The May Department Stores Company reported an 8 percent sales gain for the month, to $820 million, from $759 million last year. Same-store sales were off slightly. May's share price fell 87.5 cents yesterday, to $57.
 
Struggle for Mass Merchandisers
 Mass merchandisers continued to struggle. At Sears, same-store sales dropped 2.9 percent, even more than the 2.7 percent drop in overall sales. Edward A. Brennan, chairman and chief executive of Sears, Roebuck & Company, said the slow economic recovery had hampered sales but added that the company had double-digit increases in sales of women's sportswear, home computers and automotive accessories.
Sears's share price fell 75 cents yesterday, to $39.375.
At J. C. Penney, sales fell 5.3 percent in stores open more than a year. The company's chairman, William R. Howell, called the results disappointing, and thecompany's share price fell 87.5 cents yesterday, to $49.25.
By contrast to the Gap's strong performance, the Limited Inc., another apparel retailer, continued to post weak results. While sales rose 12 percent for the month, sales for stores open for more than a year were flat.
The Limited's share price fell $2 yesterday, to $25.375, while the Gap's rose $1.50, to $43.50.
Following is a list of the sales reported by the other largest retailers:
 
Melville Corp.: Overall sales rose 15.7 percent for August and 20.2 percent for the year to date. Same-store sales fell five- tenths of 1 percent for August and rose four-tenths of 1 percent for the year to date.
 
Woolworth Corp.: Overall sales in the U.S. were up 1.4 percent for August and 2.8 percent for the year to date. Same-store domestic sales fell 3.3 percent for August and 1.9 percent for the year to date.
 
TJX Cos.: Overall sales rose 5.5 percent for August and 13.7 percent for the year to date. The company does not report same- store sales percentages.
 
United States Shoe Corp.: Overall sales rose 3.5 percent for August and 5.2 percent for the year to date. Same-store sales were unchanged for August and down four-tenths of 1 percent for the year to date.
 
Merry-Go-Round Enterprises Inc.: Overall sales rose 17 percent for August and 26 percent for the year to date. Same-store sales were unchanged for August and up 7 percent for the year to date.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (85%); GPS (NYSE) (83%); PJC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); GAP INC (83%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES RETAILERS (95%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); INVENTORIES (72%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (69%); WEATHER (69%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



156 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
More than two years ago, the Justice Department acquired tape recordings pouring out details of how the Bank of Credit and Commerce International used front men to acquire U.S. banks illegally. But the Justice officials kept the tapes secret and, as they now acknowledge, deceived bank examiners and other investigators about the tapes' existence. [Page A1.] The Justice Department unsealed the indictment of six officials of B.C.C.I. and a reputed leader of the Medellin drug cartel. [D1.]
 A British court indefinitely extended a freeze on assets granted to the Panama Government as part of its effort to recover $23 million reportedly stolen by Manuel Antonio Noriega. [D5.]
 Earnings of private savings institutions slipped in the April-June quarter despite favorable interest-rate conditions. [D1.]
 Sales of American-made cars and trucks fell 11.6 percent in late August from a year earlier. [D1.] The nation's largest retailers reported weak August sales. [D2.]
 The number of Americans filing new unemployment claims remained at 421,000 in late August. [D2.] American businesses have cut back expansion plans to the slowest pace in five years. [D2.]
 
Markets
 Salomon will pay no compensation, severance or future legal expenses stemming from the Treasury market scandal to executives who resigned, including John Gutfreund. [A1.] The Salomon scandal is putting a harsh spotlight on money managers and investment partnerships that control billions of dollars in capital. [D6.]
 Shearson said it had suspended two top executives in its equities trading group because of violations in connection with a Conagra stock offering. [D1.]
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day exactly where it began -- at 3,008.50 points. [D6.]
 Credit market participants sold Treasury notes and bonds, pushing prices down. [D13.]
 Corn and soybean prices moved lower, while cattle prices soared. [D14.] The dollar rose in quiet trading. [D14.]
 
Companies
Unisys has agreed to pay a record $190 million to settle charges stemming from an investigation into procurement fraud and bid-rigging, Government and industry officials said. [D1.]
 Procter & Gamble made an embarrassing error in judgment when it had police trace hundreds of thousands of telephone calls in an effort to identify a reporter's sources, its chairman said. [A18.]
 Lee A. Iacocca has agreed to retire from Chrysler at the end of 1992. The announcement halts for the moment the speculation over the company's executive succession that began when Mr. Iacocca decided to stay past the normal retirement age. [D1.]
 Disney will buy the operating assets of Discover, which ended publication when Family Media closed. [D15.] Warner Brothers said Mark Canton, an executive vice president, would leave the company by mutual agreement. [D15.]
 Bethlehem Steel said it intended to sell the coal operations of its Beth Energy Mines subsidiary. [D4.]
 
International
Japanese brokerages engaged in many more bogus transactions than previously acknowledged and also rigged trades involving U.S. Treasury bonds. [D5.]
 
Today's Columns
Changes in the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates may be the best means of forecasting business-cycle turning points. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 When Liz Claiborne said it expected slightly less growth in the second half of this year, investors took to the hills and have yet to come back, despite analysts' rosy projections. Market Place. [D6.]
 Domino's Pizza is celebrating the joys of pizza in its new ad campaign. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PANAMA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); BONDS (76%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); CARTELS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); SUCCESSION PLANS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (66%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (66%); CORN MARKETS (66%); STOCK OFFERINGS (64%); NEWS REPORTING (60%); COAL MINING (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



157 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS BACKING ISRAEL AID DELAY

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Congress is likely to heed the Bush Administration's plea to postpone consideration of an Israeli request for $10 billion in housing loan guarantees until late this year or early next, Congressional leaders said today.
Lawmakers said the delay would accommodate a request made Wednesday by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3rd to postpone consideration until after a Middle East peace conference planned for October. The Administration's eagerness to put off consideration of the measure despite Israel's desire for immediate action was based on fears that processing the loan guarantee request could complicate planning for the conference. 
 Specifically, the Administration's concern is that the conference not be put at risk by the surfacing of differences with Jerusalem over President Bush's demand that the aid be linked to a commitment by Israel to halt settlements in the occupied territories.
Another consideration, lawmakers said, was the expectation that when Congress returns from its summer recess next week there will be a push, particularly by Democrats, to seek more funds to address domestic problems made worse by the recession.
Israel and its American supporters apparently misread Congressional sentiment by pressing ahead with the request for the loan guarantees, which would be earmarked to build housing and provide other help for the thousands of Soviet Jews emigrating to Israel. Before asking Congress to delay action, Mr. Baker had tried with no success to persuade Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to postpone a formal request for the funds.
 
Not Quickly or Easily
 Both Administration officials and Congressional leaders said today that Israel would probably receive the loan guarantees, but not as quickly or as easily as it hoped.
Senator Patrick J. Leahy, chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations, said that after meeting Wednesday with both President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, he had decided to delay consideration of the foreign operations aid bill, which would include the loan guarantees.
The Vermont Democrat said in a telephone interview that at a lunch with Mr. Baker and at a subsequent White House meeting, "The President and the Secretary both stressed to me very strongly" that approval of the loan guarantees when Congress reconvenes next week could jeopardize peace in the Middle East.
"I think they make a very solid argument," Mr. Leahy said. "I think it would make sense to put off the foreign aid bill to either later this year or the first of next year," he added.
The Senator said that the delay would have broad bipartisan support in the Senate.
Representative David Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip and third-ranking Democratic leader, said, "My sense is that we're probably not going to do it this year."
"I think it's a delicate issue, given the settlement policy of the Israeli Government," Mr. Bonior said. "In addition, you've got these tremendous domestic demands here at home. That's not to suggest that we're going to turn our backs on Israel, but there are priorities that will take precedence."
The Israeli Government announced today that it planned to formally ask for the guarantees on Friday. It is not clear how Jerusalem will react to the delay.
Prime Minister Shamir today rejected the notion that there was a link between the loan guarantees and the peace negotiations. "We oppose any linkage of this kind," Mr. Shamir said.
It is not known whether the Congressional delay might prompt Israeli hard-liners to press their government to pull out of the proposed American-sponsored peace conference.
Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the House Republican leader, said he believed that Congressional Republicans would support the delay.
Mr. Michel said in a telephone interview from Peoria, Ill., that "Jim Baker called me, too, and said that with the kind of progress they're making, they don't want to upset the apple cart."
Mr. Michel said that Mr. Baker asked for a 120-day delay, and that Mr. Baker had stressed that the loan guarantees were not in doubt.
To some supporters of Israel, however, the Administration's position was unpersuasive.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said: "To deny housing credits now because of the impending peace process would be a severe blow to the process, as well as to the new immigrants Israel must care for."
Supporters of Israel meanwhile prepared for an extensive lobbying campaign. The Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism urged rabbis to use the Jewish High Holy Days, which begin next week, to mobilize support for the loan guarantees.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israel is preparing for an expected million Soviet Jews, despite American attempts to link loan guarantees to a Middle East peace conference. Work continued yesterday at an apartment complex in Kiryat Gat. (Associated Press) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHAMIR, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PATRICK LEAHY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



158 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
SOVIET CONGRESS YIELDS RULE TO REPUBLICS TO AVOID POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC COLLAPSE

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Bowing to the reality of a collapsing union and an ultimatum from President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the all-Soviet Congress voted today to surrender power to a new government largely controlled by the republics.
The action served largely to confirm the collapse of central authority over the 15 constituent republics in the 16 days since the aborted right-wing coup and the increasingly urgent need to restore at least a modicum of order before the centrifugal forces turned uncontrollable. 
 The major effect of the new central structures approved by the Congress of People's Deputies was to grant sweeping emergency powers for an undefined transitional period to a State Council composed of Mr. Gorbachev and leaders of the participating republics, backed by a largely subordinate legislature and a central Interrepublican Economic Committee to manage the economy. [Text of resolutions and excerpts from Mr. Gorbachev's remarks, page A12.]
 
Gorbachev the Manager
 In so doing, the Congress effectively dissolved itself as the highest legislative authority in the Soviet Union and laid the foundation for a far looser union in which the republics would seem to predominate in deciding the policies and powers of a subordinate and reduced center. A major question remains the extent of Mr. Gorbachev's remaining power and influence. Although his powers seem sharply diminished, it is possible that he might emerge with important powers in the new State Council, particularly if the republican leaders pay more attention to their problems at home.
Under a rough timetable worked out today, the new two-house legislature will convene no later than Oct. 2, and will probably set up a commission to draft a new constitution. It is expected that the new constitution will provide for new elections to the presidency at some future date, at which time Mr. Gorbachev's political future would be decided.
 
'Rose to the Occasion'
 Mr. Gorbachev, who survived the coup only to stand on the brink of losing any viable levers of control, emerged in the interim order with considerably clipped powers and subordinate to the republics, less an executive president than a coordinating manager.
Yet the very fact of his survival, his experience in domestic and foreign affairs and the familiar determination he displayed at the Congress suggested that he could emerge with a significant role in the new council. Most republic leaders had problems enough at home, and Mr. Gorbachev was likely to be the major conduit for foreign aid.
Whatever the reason, his obvious good humor at the Congress testified to his satisfaction at what he described as a historic moment.
"By determining the principles and mechanisms for the transitional period, the Congress lays the groundwork for a future union of sovereign states," he said before closing the session. "The Congress rose to the occasion at this crucial and, without any exaggeration, historic moment in the development of our state."
For the moment, the arrangement was less a power-sharing agreement than a desperate attempt to create an emergency control center that could combat the incipient chaos and ethnic strife loosed by the coup, prevent the collapse of the economy and the fragmentation of the military.
 
Principles for the Future
 The law made no attempt to define the scope, functions or procedures of the new State Council, leaving that to the republican leaders and Mr. Gorbachev to sort out. It was unclear how the republican leaders would be represented in the council and how often the council would meet, whether Mr. Gorbachev, more attuned to Moscow, might rule between meetings with the Russian leader, Boris N. Yeltsin, or would have to check his every action with republican representatives.
The Congress did, however, pass a nonbinding resolution outlining broad principles for the future, pledging to honor existing Soviet agreements with other states and charging the State Council with "insuring the legal continuity of power and management, guaranteeing a peaceful and orderly transition to a democratic civil society."
The State Council was to hold its first meeting Friday, when it was likely to appoint the Economic Committee -- in effect an acting cabinet -- and consider emergency economic programs. There were reports that Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the prime advocate of radical economic reform, was readying a preliminary economic plan.
The council was also expected to recognize the independence of the three Baltic states, an issue the Congress avoided taking up for fear of prompting demands by other republics for similar recognition. The Baltics are the only states whose independence has received broad recognition abroad, and while most other republics have also proclaimed independence, all except Moldavia might yet form some new form of association.
The new Government was declared a transitional authority until those republics that wanted to could agree on a new relationship, still undefined. The law set no time limits, and deputies talked vaguely of a transitional period of two months to two years.
Besides Mr. Gorbachev, it was also a satisfying moment for those who had struggled for years against a monolithic and repressive system that had held their nation in thrall for seven decades, and who viewed the vote as its final burial.
The eulogy was proposed by Anatoly A. Sobchak, the liberal mayor of Leningrad: "I propose a fitting conclusion to our work by fulfilling the last will of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin and burying him according to the religious and national traditions of our people at Volkovo Cemetery with all appropriate honors."
 
Gorbachev Turns Tough
 Lenin had in fact asked to be buried next to his mother and sister in the Leningrad cemetery, but the proposal was quashed by Mr. Gorbachev.
The end did not come easily. For two days the debate at the Congress ranged from bitter resistance against the surrender of power to somber acknowledgment that the old order was out.
At today's session, however, Mr. Gorbachev turned tough. Flanked by Mr. Yeltsin and the leaders of nine other republics, the man who six years earlier first loosed the democratic processes that created this Congress now sternly demanded that it fulfill its purpose by clearing the way for the new era.
Turning away all speakers, demanding silence and obedience in the vast Palace of Congresses, Mr. Gorbachev martialed vote after vote until the deputies balked on a critical paragraph. Twice they denied it a two-thirds majority needed for a constitutional change, when Mr. Gorbachev declared an ultimatum: "We've been talking for three days and we must move foward. Either take this decision and continue on the path, or we will seek new answers."
He did not elaborate, but the glare of the republic leaders made clear that they were the new law in the land with or without the endorsement of Congress. This time, by a margin of scores of votes, it passed -- 1,606 for, 116 against, 83 abstaining and 37 not voting.
Critical to the passage was the decision by Estonia and Latvia, despite their independence, to have their deputies take part in the vote. Lithuania withdrew its deputies from the outset.
The rest went easily, and by the time the Congress was called on to vote on a Declaration of Human Rights, no one even asked to speak. The declaration, which includes guarantees of free movement, is nonbinding.
The central action taken by the congress, the law on transferring power, was in part a compromise. The original proposal from the republican leaders had called for a largely nominal legislature appointed by the republics.
 
2-Chamber Parliament
 The final version created a two-chamber Parliament with a Council of the Republics and a Council of the Union.
The Council of the Republics would have 20 deputies from each republic except Russia, which would have additional deputies from ethnic subrepublics for a total of 52. The catch, however, was that each republicwould have only one vote in the Council of the Republics.
In the Council of the Union, seats would be apportioned by quota. Its action would be subject to approval by the Council of the Republics.
The law also lifted a requirement for the Congress to formally dissolve itself. Deputies were allowed to retain their credentials until the end of their term in two and a half years, along with their privileges and immunity, but regular assemblies were canceled.
Substantive powers were granted to the State Council, which was authorized to organize its own work and whose decisions were declared binding. The law said nothing about the relationship between the council and the Parliament, empowering the council in effect to rule by decree.
The law called for an Interrepublican Economic Committee to be named by the republics. All national military, security and foreign-affairs institutions were placed under the control of the council.
The resolution passed by the Congress gave a broad, though nonbinding outline of thenew Government's goals.
It charged the new leaders with "insuring the legal continuity of power and management, guaranteeing a peaceful and orderly transition to a democratic civil society," and it called for accelerated efforts to negotiate a new Union Treaty "in which each state can independently define the form of its participation in the Union."
The resolution called on republics to reach agreements among themselves on a variety of economic, fiscal, military and other issues. It pledged to honor all Soviet international agreements, and called for negotiated agreements with republics that wanted to leave the union.
While the Congress met, events across the land underscored the urgency of restoring order. Railroad lines in Moldavia remained blocked by women demanding the release of leaders of the "Dnestr Republic," an enclave largely populated by Russians and Ukrainians that opposes Moldavian independence.
A new wave of violence was reported in South Ossetia, a region that demands independence of Georgia, and in Georgia tensions were high after the police fired on demonstrators opposed to the authoritarian President, Zviad Gamsakhurdia. Armenia and Azerbaijan squared off for new confrontations over the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh and rumblings were reported in several ethnic regions of the Russian Federation.
Yet the documents adopted today marked a turning point in the tumult that swept over the Soviet Union with the collapse of the coup and the subsequent eruption of nationalist and republican claims. The same republican leaders who had rushed to declare independence now sat alongside Mr. Gorbachev and argued the need for maintaining a center, and the deputies who had defended or attacked the old order now mustered the dignity to surrender their own hard-won authority in the name of a new order.
At the center stood Mr. Gorbachev, still self-confident and assertive, a man who had come within a hair's-breadth of being swept away by the same processes he had set loose six years earlier, but who had clambered back to center stage by dint of his fundamental faith in the union's potential for renewal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Delegates surrounding President Mikhail S. Gorbachev after Congress accepted his decentralization plan. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); A bus that had been used as a barricade during the failed coup has been put on display at the Central Museum of the Revolution of the U.S.S.R. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times) (pg. A10)
 
Chart: "Ruling the Soviet Union: A Transitional Plan"
The Congress of People's Deputies approved President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's transitional or "interim" structure for the Soviet Government yesterday. These are the main organs of power of the new Government, which is to rule the country until a new constitution and a new treaty defining relations among the republics on their role in the union can be worked out.
 
State Council
 Executive panel. Headed by Gorbachev and made up of leaders of the participating republics. Responsible for foreign affiars, military, law enforcement and security. Meets today for the first time.
 
Interrepublican Economic Committee
 Chairman chosen by Gorbachev, members chosen by the republics. Responsible for management of the economy, economic reform and social policy.
 
Supreme Soviet
 Parliament made up of two bodies. Bodies will be called into session no late than Oct. 2. is expected to write a new constitution.
 
Council of the Republics
 Members chosen by the republics.
 
Council of the Union
 Members chosen by the republics
 
DETAILS OF THE NEW STRUCTURE
State Council: Mr. Gorbachev, as President, will lead this council, which includes the leaders of all the republics. The highest Government body, it will coordinate decisions on domestic and foreign policy issues. It will run defense, security, law enforcement and foreign affairs. If the President is unable to fulfill his duties, the council will elect an acting leader. The council is to meet today to start work, and is expected to take up the issue of independence for certain Soviet republics.
Supreme Soviet: The highest legislative body, consisting of two chambers, the Council of the Republics and the Council of the Union. The total number of deputies in this body will depend on how many republics decide to take part.
Laws adopted by the Council of the Union take effect after they are approved by the Council of the Republics.
Council of the Union: The deputies will be chosen by legislatures in the republics, based on the number of lawmakers each now has in the Congress of People's Deputies.
Council of the Republics: Will decide on the organization and activities of union organs, and will ratify and annul international treaties of the union. Each republic will send 20 deputies to the council. They will be chosen from Soviet Congress of People's Deputies and republics' legisatures. In addition, autonomous areas - the smaller political subdivisions - in each republic can send one representative. The Russian republic will have the most members, 52, to reflect all its autonomous districts and regions. No matter how many deputies a republic sends, however, each delegation has only one vote.
Interrepublic Economic Committee: To coordinate the national economy and implementation of economic changes, this group is to work out a treaty on economic relations among the parts of the union. Participation in the economic pact would not be linked to signing of a union treaty defining the relations among the republics on their role in the union. This committee's chairman will be named by the President, with the approval of the State Council. (Source: The Associated Press) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



159 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Pop/Jazz;
Personalized Bossa Nova From Veloso

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
"I go against the grain, sing against the melody, swim against the tide," Caetano Veloso sang in "Branquinha" ("Little White One") on his brilliant 1989 album, "Estrangeiro" ("Foreigner"). In fact, he makes every melody he sings sound luminous and newly discovered. But in following his own path, Mr. Veloso has become one of the world's most visionary songwriters.
Although he has been known in Brazil since the 1960's, Mr. Veloso released his first United States album, "Caetano Veloso," just five years ago. It was a selection of his songs from the two previous decades, yet it was a detour from the music that had made him a superstar in Brazil. 
 He didn't use the electric guitars and drums of his regular band; instead, he was backed only by his own acoustic guitar, an occasional second guitar and the quiet pattering of hand percussion. His voice, tender but sure, had the sound of a poet ruminating over his past, examining it with affection and curiosity. The music's delicacy reconnected the 49-year-old Mr. Veloso with the bossa nova that he had grown up on; at the same time, it showed how much he had personalized Brazilian music.
Tomorrow night at Town Hall, Mr. Veloso will be playing songs from that album and others, using the same backdrop of acoustic guitars and percussion. And next Tuesday through Sunday at the Ballroom, he will bring the small group into the intimacy of a cabaret.
 
Musical Revolutionary
 In Brazil, Mr. Veloso has been a musical revolutionary. At the end of the 1960's, he and other musicians from the state of Bahia (including Gilberto Gil and Gal Costa) decided to experiment with both words and music, adding electric guitars to their bands and using the fragmentation and imagery of modern poetry. "All the songwriters of my generation were influenced by modern Brazilian poetry," Mr. Veloso said by telephone recently from Rio de Janeiro. "Poets like Vinicius de Moraes, who started as a poet and became a pop lyricist, and Carlos Drummond de Andrade and Joao Cabral, who writes with a sharp knife. Fernando Pessoa, a Portuguese modernist, was also important, and the prose of Guimaraes Rosa. And there was Oswald de Andrade, a pioneer of modernism in Brazil. His poems are short, funny and very aggressive. He invented the idea of cultural anthropophagy, cannibalism. He said Brazil's history began when the Bishop of Sardinia was eaten by the Indians of the Amazon.
"When the Beatles started to interest us, I was already in love with the bossa nova, and with this Brazilian and Portuguese literature. I heard Bob Dylan after this, and he began to influence me when I couldn't understand one word of English."
A song Mr. Veloso wrote in 1967, "Tropicalia," gave its name to the songwriters' movement, but the excitement was short-lived; Brazil's military Government considered the new music a threat. Late in 1968, Mr. Veloso and Mr. Gil were detained by federal police, and after a period of house arrest they exiled themselves to London in 1969. There, they soaked up the era's psychedelic rock while sending songs back to Brazil to be recorded by singers like Miss Costa and Mr. Veloso's sister, Maria Bethania. When Mr. Gil and Mr. Veloso returned to Brazil in 1972, their reputations were intact and their audiences continued to grow.
 
No Lectures
 Mr. Veloso didn't turn into a finger-pointing protest singer. "Sometimes I love it when a very open political statment is in the middle of a song and it sounds like a political statement as a color added to other colors," he said. "But I don't like when a song is supposed to be a political speech or a politically useful thing, when it becomes a lecture and it's not beautiful. First, it must be beautiful."
During the 1970's and 80's, his music reasserted its sinuous, harmonically sophisticated tunefulness after its flirtation with blunt rock-and-roll, while his lyrics grew more associative and imagistic, blending an embracing Romanticism ("My vagabond heart wants to hold the world inside me") with glimpses of stark clarity ("the blah blah blah of economics on television"). Mr. Veloso's music has long since swallowed his influences.
His performances here follow a Brazilian and European tour that accompanied the belated Brazilian release of "Caetano Veloso." Once again, Mr. Veloso has re-examined his past. "Putting together a show, it seems to be casual, but it has to have a line inside from beginning to end, as if I was making a film," he said. "When you see a Jean-Luc Godard film, it doesn't have a story, but it has a wholeness."
 
A Little More Anger
 While he is performing with his lightest touch, Mr. Veloso is in the middle of recording a new album, working with Arto Lindsay, who co-produced "Estrangeiro." Part of it was completed in Rio de Janeiro, and Mr. Veloso will stay in New York to finish the final songs. "In this new material I am more somber, darker, more pessimistic, because things are very difficult in Brazil now," he said. "I am an optimist, basically, but things are very bad. In this moment we are not respecting ourselves as a country, as a nation, as a people.
"Bahia is incredibly dirty, there are lots of people unemployed in the streets, and nobody is trying to think of the possibility of becoming a real citizen. Lots of children in the streets are getting killed. This is the bottom of the well. So I think my songs are a little more angry."
Tonight and next week, Mr. Veloso will intersperse his older songs with material he has written for others. "When I write for Maria Bethania, she tells me exactly what she wants," he said. "She'll tell me she wants a song that has this word in it and that kind of feeling. One time she told me she wanted a song with the word 'baby,' in English, and the line, in Portuguese, 'Read it on my T-shirt.' So I do it. Writing for myself, I do the same thing. I kind of hire myself to write about some images or subjects, and sometimes I am able to respond. Other times, I don't know why I write a song. Some idea pops in my mind, even though I'm not preparing to write a song, so I do it. But most of the time, it is a question of will."
Mr. Veloso is to perform tomorrow at 8 P.M. at Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Manhattan. Tickets are $22.50. Information: (212) 840-2824. At the Ballroom, 253 West 28th Street, Manhattan, sets begin at 9 and 11 P.M. Tuesday through next Sunday; there is a $35 or $40 cover and a two-drink minimum. Information: (212) 244-3005.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Caetano Veloso (Livio Campos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (77%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (77%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (57%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); WRITERS (89%); SONG WRITING (89%); POETRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON; VELOSO, CAETANO

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



160 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
2 Men Lead Democrats In Outlining '92 Tactics

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Senator Lloyd Bensten says, almost definitively, that he will not run for President, and no one has ever asked Representative Dan Rostenkowski to try for it. But the broad jurisdictions of their committees give the chairmen of the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee the keys to the central issues of the Democrats' campaign for the White House.
Last month, in pushing through bills to provide additional weeks of unemployment compensation for people out of work for more than half a year, they sought to deal not just with the needs of the workers. In the end the workers got no help because President Bush killed the actual benefits, but the Democrats gained, perhaps substantially. They now have more ammunition to make the claim that they care about downtrodden Americans while Mr. Bush is more concerned with Kurds, Turks and Egyptians. 
 That bill will probably be back again this month. But both chairmen and their committees will also be dealing with two bigger issues that seem to be inevitable parts of next year's campaign: the relative tax burdens on the rich and the middle class and the cost and availability of health care.
Some of their colleagues wish the Texas Senator and the Illinois Representative were more inclined to straightforward partisan combat -- to defining a Democratic position and pushing it out of committee and onto the floor, whether or not they had the votes to pass it there and knowing that in any case they could not override a veto.
Each will do that, Mr. Bentsen a bit more readily than Mr. Rostenkowski, who will take directions from Speaker Thomas S. Foley, as he did in bringing the unemployment compensation bill forward. But neither is instinctively drawn to the partisan approach. They prefer to seek out compromises with Republicans that may result in real laws.
On taxes, compromise is not a real option. The Democrats want to raise rates on people with the highest incomes and cut them a bit for those in the middle ranges. The Republicans want to reduce capital gains taxes. So the outlook is for hearings and speeches this fall devoted, as Mr. Bentsen puts it, to helping "middle-income people who are really bearing the brunt of the problem." A bill could come to a vote next year.
On health care, the short-term prospects for major legislation are even more daunting, although more and more lawmakers seem persuaded that something major must be done about the sharply rising costs of a health care system with big holes in it. But those costs are huge, and Democrats are not as united among themselves on this issue as on taxes. The Republicans in Congress are uncertain, and the Bush Administration shows no signs of wanting to confront the issue before the election.
Mr. Bentsen says he thinks health insurance legislation, dealing with a manageable chunk of the problem, can actually be passed this fall. He will soon introduce a bill to cope with the problems small-business owners say keep them from insuring their workers. He would seek to prevent insurance companies from " 'cherry-picking' among small companies, taking just those cases where they have the younger employees with fewer health problems."
By legislating limits on how much premiums can be increased each year, prohibiting outright policy cancellations, outlawing the ouster of individual workers from a plan and narrowing permissible exclusions of compensation for pre-existing health conditions, he would try to break the current cycle workers face. "As things continue to escalate, they have to increase the deductible and the co-insurance, then drop the dependents and finally the whole policy," Mr. Bentsen said.
Mr. Rostenkowski may introduce an identical bill; the two of them work much more closely together than do most chairmen with corresponding jurisdiction. And they may find enough Republican support to pass a bill that would try to solve one element of the health care problem without even attempting to address the cosmic issue of how to assure everyone adequate, affordable health care.
Solving a discrete issue is "what I hired on to do," Mr. Bentsen is fond of saying. And passing a law on health and drawing a line on taxes, he says, ought to help whomever the Democrats run for President. But he says it won't be him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS; SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS; SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); VETO (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); INSURANCE LAW (62%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (62%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN); ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



161 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Senator Who Brings Home the Bacon

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Two years after Senator Robert C. Byrd was named chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, he declared that he intended to become a "billion-dollar industry."
What he planned to do, he explained in June 1990, was use his new power to funnel a billion dollars' worth of Federal projects and agencies into his impoverished state. 
 "I hope to become West Virginia's billion-dollar industry," the Senator told a crowd in Clarksburg. "I expect during my term to bring at least a billion dollars to West Virginia in projects that I put into the bill."
He has almost succeeded, much to the delight of his constituents, much to the sorrow of other legislators and much to the despair of some Government employees who find themselves headed for work in the hills and hollows of West Virginia rather than the bureaucratic warrens of Washington.
 
True to His Word
 In less than three years as appropriations chairman, Mr. Byrd has steered more than $750 million worth of Federal projects and agencies and more than 3,000 Federal jobs out of Washington and toward his constituents. The Federal Bureau of Investigation's new $185 million fingerprint center will soon be built in Clarksburg, bringing in 2,600 new jobs. His latest target is the Central Intelligence Agency. He wants it to shift 3,000 of its jobs to West Virginia.
In all, Mr. Byrd has shunted so many Federal dollars and jobs toward West Virginia that some of his Capitol Hill colleagues are gearing up to oppose further such efforts.
After almost four decades on Capitol Hill, including an 11-year tour as the Senate Democratic leader before taking over the appropriations panel in 1988, Mr. Byrd, who is 73 years old, is demonstrating anew that he can play the Congressional power game as well as anyone around, especially when it comes to "pork barrel" politics.
"This nation is made up of local interests," he is fond of saying.
 
The Sources of Power
 The Senate Appropriations Committee is one of the biggest repositories of project financing, or political "pork," on the Hill, and Mr. Byrd has dipped into it without hesitation to aid friends in the Senate and the people back home, thereby strengthening both himself and his state.
This willingness to use such power, along with seemingly tireless drive and a prodigious knowledge of Senate rules and procedure, has enabled Mr. Byrd to run the appropriations committee with a sureness not seen in years.
"Persausive," Senator Jim Exon, a Nebraska Democrat, said after the soft-voiced but intense West Virginian recently persuaded him to vote in favor of an increase in Congressional pay. The bill languished until Mr. Byrd took it up as one of his causes.
 
A One-Man Industry?
 But nothing Mr. Byrd has done since becoming appropriations chairman stands out so spectacularly as what he has done for West Virginia.
"He has become the most important economic factor in our state," said Bob Brunner, an aide to Gov. Gaston Caperton. "There's no way to overstate his achievements."
The expanded office of the Bureau of Debt is going up in Parkersburg, where it will create 700 new jobs. And the Fish and Wildlife Service's new $25 million training center is in Harper's Ferry.
Charleston is getting a new Federal courthouse, at a cost of $80 million. Beckley is getting a new Federal prison, at a cost of $50 million. Almost $200 million is being spent on water projects.
 
For State and Country?
 Other legislators can claim, legitimately, that they funnel major Federal projects and spending to their states. But no one else can claim to have attracted $140 million in new highway projects this year -- a third of the new highway money put up by Congress for the entire country.
"What helps West Virginia helps the nation," the Senator often says.
He explains that the F.B.I. fingerprint office ended up in West Virginia after the bureau's director, William S. Sessions, complained to him that the office and its system needed to be modernized. He says he offered to try to get Congress to put up the money for the modernization and then suggested to Mr. Sessions that the bureau consider West Virginia for the new office.
"Byrd has shown himself to be one of the great masters at making the appropriatons process work for himself and for others by trading favors and building loyalty," said Joseph White, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who is writing a book on Congressional appropriations. "You don't necessarily make great history doing this, but it's an inescapable part of the system."
 
'Slow This Train Down'
 Mr. Byrd's latest fight, over the proposal to move the C.I.A., could become politically ugly. He has persuaded fellow senators that the switch is a good idea, but he has been unable to win over House members. Now the issue must be hashed out in a House-Senate conference.
"We're going to slow this train down," Representative Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said recently when his panel took a look at the Byrd proposal.
Mr. Byrd insists he did not use any of his considerable appropriations clout to pressure the C.I.A. and his Senate colleagues into agreeing to the move. Rather, he says, he learned that the agency had planned to consolidate some of its temporary offices that are scattered about the Washington area, outside its main headquarters in Langley, Va., and he suggested to agency officials that they "take a look" at West Virginia as a consolidation site, along with sites in Maryland and Virginia.
The agency, the Senator said, then found a suitable site in Charles Town, W.Va., 60 miles northwest of Washington, along with a second site in Prince William County, Va., about 30 miles southwest of the capital. At that point, the Senator says, he took steps to clear Congressional approval and money for the moves.
 
Commuting and Computing
 Modern-day communications and transportation systems, the Senator contends, make it feasible to put Federal complexes almost anywhere. Further, he says, many West Virginia towns and cities are within commuting distance of Washington.
Representative Frank R. Wolf, a Virginia Republican whose district is home for many Federal employees, particularly C.I.A. employees, does not accept any of this explanation.
"I don't want to get into what the Senator did or didn't do, if anything," he said, avoiding tangling with a man who has never been reticent about using political power to punish.
"What I do know," Mr. Wolf continued, "is that the C.I.A. went to the trouble to hire a real estate consultant to give it a reading on 700 potential sites, and that the agency initially narrowed its choices from that list to 65 sites, none in West Virginia. Then it cut that list to 10 sites, none in West Virginia. Then it came up with a list of four sites and -- lo! -- a West Virginia site was suddenly present. And, surprise of surprises, that West Virginia site made the final cut."
According to Mr. Wolf, the C.I.A. deleted the real estate consultant's criticism of the West Virginia site from its final report.
Why did a West Virginia site that had been ruled out earlier suddenly appear at the end of the process?
"We were not bound by the recommendations of any outside consultant," replied Ceferino Epps, an agency spokesman.
And what role did Senator Byrd play?
"None," said Mr. Epps. "None at all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In less than three years as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Robert C. Byrd, shown in the committee chamber, has steered more than $750 million worth of Federal projects and agencies and more than 3,000 Federal jobs out of Washington and toward his constituents in West Virginia. (Andrea Mohin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (98%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (98%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (98%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN) ROBERT BYRD (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



162 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: For Dinkins, It's a Retreat;
Fiscal Realities Lead Mayor to Backtrack

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Faced with New York City's harsh fiscal realities and daunting complexities, Mayor David N. Dinkins has moved to retreat from major policies that helped carry him into City Hall on the hopes of a liberal coalition.
On two disparate, intractable problems -- housing the homeless and disposing of garbage -- the Mayor has found himself this week pleading the limits of his ability to solve them in quite the ambitious ways he pledged, or seemed to be pledging, in his mayoral campaign two years ago. 
 First, Mr. Dinkins voiced concern that the city's shelter system might actually be luring people who are not truly homeless -- because they can increase their chances of winning permanent city apartments. Then he said the city would probably have to build more trash-burning incinerators -- because any other options would cost too much to be real options.
On both fronts, the Mayor edged perilously closer to embracing the policies, if not the philosophies, of his predecessor, Edward I. Koch, that he had sought to discredit in his 1989 race against him. Asked yesterday if the city's fiscal problems and his own experience in 20 months in office had required him to scale back his expectations, Mr. Dinkins said, "Not quite."
The Mayor said he was still committed to providing housing for all who really needed homes, and to maintaining and expanding the city's fledgling recycling program, whose budget had been set to run out in December, though he is not sure how he will pay for it.
But community groups and some other politicians who supported Mr. Dinkins in part because of his platform on putting homeless people more quickly into permanent homes, and his pledge to postpone a decision on building more incinerators until 1993 after a thorough study, put it differently.
Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, a longtime Dinkins backer, summed up the sense of reversal, calling the incinerator decision "deplorable" and the shift on the homeless "cynical and dangerous."
"It's hard to do what you want when dollars are scarce and the need continues to grow," she said. "But if you can't make giant leaps, you have got to take a set of baby steps that keep you moving in the right directions. And I do not think we have done that well enough with recycling or with developing a set of policies for addressing homelessness."
Such disappointment among strong allies is politically troublesome for Mr. Dinkins, already under fire from a raft of groups for recent cuts in the city budget. The ultimate effect on his old coalition is harder to gauge since no more liberal challenger has yet surfaced.
 
Qualified Language
 In the qualified language that is his hallmark, Mr. Dinkins sought yesterday to distinguish between his handling of the homeless and incinerator issues, saying, "We almost have apples and oranges here."
In fact, the questions are separate.
Mr. Dinkins never promised not to build more incinerators, only to delay building them until safety questions had been studied as part of a comprehensive plan. But he used words so strong that opponents of incinerator projects might well have thought he was abandoning the idea. He did so in the Democratic primary, in a tactical stroke that cost little, since the approval process for incinerators would take several years in any case, but gained him the support of environmental groups at a critical time.
"We're not going to have giant mass-burn incinerators in every borough belching poison into the air," Mr. Dinkins said then.
But now, facing pressure from the state to submit a comprehensive plan for handling waste -- without which the state will not permit it to build either recycling plants or incincerators -- the Dinkins administration was forced to show its cards. Those cards call for expanding recycling, though not nearly so fast as environmentalists wish, and building up to three new "resource recovery" plants that burn trash to create steam power, five fewer than the Koch administration originally envisioned.
"What I said was, there would be a moratorium as it were, pending finding out just what we could do, should do and so forth," Mr. Dinkins said yesterday. "That really hasn't changed, except that obviously I'd be more pleased if we were to come up with a situation that did not require resource recovery. But on balance, as you look at the various options, this makes sense, or certainly appears to."
But environmental groups sharply dispute that. They contend that the city could recycle 40 percent of its waste, instead of the 25 percent by the turn of the century that the administration foresees. They say that building incinerators takes away incentives for the city to pursue recycling and for private industry to develop a market for recyled goods.
"An incinerator built before recycling has been fully developed is likely to be an expensive white elephant," a coalition including the Sierra Club, the Environmental Defense Fund and the Natural Resources Defense Council said in a statement.
The Mayor's shift on homeless policy was more marked. He had made the issue a centerpiece of his tenure as Manhattan Borough President, issuing a report, "A Shelter is Not a Home," that called for moving families from large barracks-style shelters and welfare hotels into apartment-style units and permanent housing as swiftly as possible.
Under pressure from advocacy groups and politicians like Mr. Dinkins, the Koch administration eventually began moving in that direction, and when Mr. Dinkins took office, he accelerated the pace, giving newly homeless families priority for public housing, though Koch administration officials warned that doing so could increase the demand for shelter even more. Mr. Dinkins's report had dismissed that contention, saying, "There is little evidence that families forsake stable housing arrangements hoping to get an apartment through the city."
 
An Adviser's Frustration
 But the shelter population has continued to grow, and the Dinkins administration now forces families to wait longer in the shelters before getting apartments. Nancy Wackstein, Mr. Dinkins's chief adviser on the homeless and author of the report, resigned this week to head the Lenox Hill Neighorhood Assocication. She reflected on her frustration at the limits of the city to address such a complex social and economic problem, and acknowledged that her earlier conclusion might have been too optimistic.
The Coalition for the Homeless said yesterday that the lowered expectations of the administration and Ms. Wackstein amounted to "blaming the victim."
But Mr. Dinkins, while expressing compassion, was unapologetic.
"You have to take a real hard look at it," he said. "You have to determine that those persons who are in the shelter system really have no other option, that they're not there en route to try to get an apartment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOMELESS PERSONS; HOUSING ; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); KOCH, EDWARD I

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



163 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Rhone-Poulenc Names Chief of U.S. Division

 BODY:
The United States subsidiary of Rhone-Poulenc, the giant French chemical company, said yesterday that it had named Peter J. Neff chairman and chief executive. Mr. Neff has been president and chief operating officer of the subsidiary, Rhone-Poulenc Inc., since 1987 and has had broad experience in administration and strategic planning.
Mr. Neff, who is 52 years old, sees his primary mission as developing the company's specialty chemical business in the United States and improving the profitability of its commodity and agricultural chemicals businesses. "We have some leadership positions in the specialty chemical area," Mr. Neff said in a telephone interview. "But we're looking to do a lot more developing in that area. We plan to do that by internal investment and through acquisitions." 
 He also stated that cost-cutting would be an important goal in the company's commodity chemical business, which is a leading producer of soda ash, sulfuric acid and chemicals used in recycling. "These are difficult times for the basic chemical business because the economy is not faring very well," he said "and we don't see any real recovery until the end of the year. So we are cutting costs and making some small acquisitions to round out our product line."
As president and chief operating officer, Mr. Neff has been a part of a series of acquisitions that has catapulted the American subsidiary from a company with $700 million in sales to one with more than $2 billion in revenue. That growth has been part of a long-term strategy in the last several years -- for Rhone-Poulenc and other European chemical companies -- to have a far greater presence in the United States market.
Rhone-Poulenc S.A. is the largest chemical and pharmaceutical company in France. "Already, we account for more than 15 percent of Rhone-Poulenc Group sales," Mr. Neff said. "And we expect that percentage to increase."
The company in particular seeks to enhance its role in the lucrative specialty-chemical industry in the United States. "We already have some leadership in the area of food ingredients and in other areas," Mr. Neff said. "But we plan to do more. We plan to bring in some technology from Europe."
Before coming to Rhone-Poulenc, Mr. Neff was president and chief executive of St. Joe Minerals, a subsidiary of the Fluor Corporation. He worked for that company 14 years, in positions like administration and strategic planning. Before that, he worked in marketing positions with Nabisco Brands. Mr. Neff is a 1969 graduate of Rutgers University, where he studied at night to earn a degree in chemistry, graduating magna cum laude, while working as a research chemist at the Exxon Corporation's chemical division. He later received an M.B.A. from Rider College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FLR (NYSE) (61%); ANR (NYSE) (61%); XOM (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (61%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (61%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (61%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (61%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (61%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (61%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (61%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (61%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: RHONE-POULENC INC RHONE-POULENC SA (94%); FLUOR CORP (61%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (61%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: RHONE-POULENC INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CHEMICALS (95%); EXECUTIVES (92%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMMODITY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHEMICALS TRADE (78%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (73%); ALKALIS MFG (73%); BASIC CHEMICALS MFG (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; NEFF, PETER J

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



164 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
E Pluribus Unum?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis.

 BODY:
As we watch the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the attempt to cobble together a new system based on the separate republics, we wonder whether such a hybrid can work. How can a mosaic of states have an effective national economy? A foreign or defense policy?
One answer is that it has been tried before with some success: here in the United States. Our circumstances in 1787 were of course entirely different, the joining of independent states in a federation rather than an attempt to rescue some central power from the explosion of a centralized tyranny. But American history does provide some lessons in the workability of federalism -- of state governments functioning within a national system. 
 In the abstract, it must seem rather mad to have 50 different legislatures inside the United States, 50 state bureaucracies, 50 quite distinct legal and judicial systems. American federalism has indeed led to complexity, and helped to produce the most legalized society on earth. But it has also had great benefits.
Justice Louis Brandeis made the classic statement of one advantage of American federalism. In a dissenting opinion in 1932 he wrote: "It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system that a single courageous state may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory, and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country."
There is good reason to believe that Brandeis had Wisconsin in mind when he praised state experimentation. This state, the home of the Progressive movement, led the way on such legislation as unemployment compensation -- a plan drafted by Brandeis's daughter and son-in-law, Elizabeth and Paul Raushenbush, who both taught economics at the University of Wisconsin.
Central to Brandeis's thinking was his belief that huge institutions -- corporations or governments -- were difficult to manage. He thought that aggregations of economic and political power were not only inherently dangerous but inefficient, stifling fresh ideas.
With the New Deal and after, liberals mostly fell away from the Brandeis view. They looked to the center, to Washington, to solve America's problems. But painful recent experience has made us see again that it is unwise to try to run everything from the center in a continental country.
If it is better to allow constituent parts of the United States to go their own way on some issues, how much more is that likely to be true of the vast Soviet Union, with its relatively primitive transportation and communications. Those realities coincide with popular revulsion against central direction after the Soviet record of material and moral disaster.
It hardly needs to be said that the effort to create some form of Soviet federalism will be daunting under the current conditions of political and economic disarray. Even without that factor, American history does not suggest that federalism is an easy political system to manage. We did have a bloody Civil War.
If there is one clear lesson from our history, I think it is the importance of a national market. States and regions may -- should -- go their own way in economic development, depending on their resources and talents. But they do need to be able to trade in a larger market, without tariff barriers.
The question is whether Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin will be able to preserve even that much of an economic union as they and leaders of the other republics try to write a new constitution.
Mr. Gorbachev's leading role in the enterprise is a testament to his astonishing political resilience. He came back from the coup seeming totally out of touch with the great popular movements against the Communist Party and toward empowerment of the republics. Now he has placed himself at the head of both movements.
Western conservatives who regularly denounce Mr. Gorbachev will no doubt cry "opportunism." So be it. We can agree that Mikhail Gorbachev is not a Madisonian believer in federalism.
But to leave it at that is grotesquely unfair. Mr. Gorbachev, by his opening of that closed society over the last six years, made real change possible -- made resistance to the coup possible. To fail to give him credit for that historic achievement is indecent, whether or not he can lead his people now into a federalist promised land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (99%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); HISTORY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); TRENDS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



165 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
MARILYN QUAYLE has been appointed by JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, the United Nations Secretary General, to a new council that will try to reduce the loss of life, property damage and social and economic disruption caused by natural disasters around the world. 
 The new group's members include TAKEO FUKUDA, a former Prime Minister of Japan; SUZANNE MUBARAK, wife of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and LISBETH PALME, the widow of Olof Palme, the slain prime minister of Sweden. It has an awesomely long title to go with its mission: the Special High-Level Council of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.
Mrs. Quayle was busy yesterday preparing to accompany her husband on a state visit to Africa on Saturday and could not come to the phone. But Doug Eldred, her special assistant for disaster preparedness issues, said, "She is heavily interested in disasters because growing up in Indiana she found that natural disasters such as floods and tornadoes were commonplace."
In fact, Mrs. Quayle has been involved with a variety of relief organizations. She represented the Bush Administration in Bangladesh after the cyclone there in April, and two years ago she helped workers after Hurricane Hugo in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marilyn Quayle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); AFRICA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); AFRICA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DISASTERS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES NATURAL DISASTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HURRICANES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DISASTER PLANNING (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (65%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER (SEC GEN); QUAYLE, MARILYN (MRS DAN QUAYLE); FUKUDA, TAKEO; MUBARAK, SUZANNE; PALME, LISBETH HOSNI MUBARAK (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



166 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Trash-Transfer Plan Stirs Up Queens

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
When Al Greenstein glances to the right of his office-supply store in Long Island City, he sees the 50-story Citicorp office tower rising a block away, like a bizarrely transplanted piece of midtown Manhattan. He and many others in Long Island City hope that the tower will be followed by similar additions.
But when he looks two blocks to the left, he sees something that not only typifies the Long Island City neighborhood, with its low-lying factories, warehouses and small houses, but something that he and some neighbors also insist threatens their vision of the Queens neighborhood's future. It is a freight yard where the Long Island Rail Road plans to permit the loading of garbage into boxcars for shipment to the Middle West. 
 "I hate it," the 63-year-old Mr. Greenstein said of the planned transfer station. "This would be the start of degrading the area."
His sentiments represent one side of an intense dispute roiling Long Island City, a section of western Queens where one of New York City's oldest and largest industrial strongholds mingles with residential stretches and newer centers of commerce and culture.
Another side is voiced by the railroad and a Kentucky-based waste-disposal company, which say that the proposed operation will benefit New York City. They say that the transfer station, where bales of commercial garbage will be transferred to railroad cars and shipped to the MiddleWest, will help to reduce traffic congestion and air pollution because fewer large trucks will be needed to haul the waste to landfills.
"It will operate unobtrusively and will not cause any problems to Long Island City," said Mark McIntyre, a spokesman for United Waste Removal Inc. of Louisville. He added that the garbage-transfer operation would not discourage developers from investing in the neighborhood. The company is seeking state and city approvals to begin the operation in the L.I.R.R. yard at Jackson Avenue and 46th Road.
But not discouraging developers is no consolation to many residents, particularly those who are against the garbage-transfer station and most major development in the neighborhood.
"I'm not pleased about either," Annie Tsantesaid.
Ms. Tsantes, a 39-year-old landlord and superintendent, argues that the waste operation would bring odors, rats and other vermin to the area. The railroad and United Waste Removal say such fears are unwarranted. As for redevelopment, Ms. Tsantes, who also works as a waitress, said that it would bring no benefits to local residents like herself.
Long Island City, immediately across the East River from the East Side of Manhattan, is poised for a major transformation, some city officials and local leaders say. Many predict that once the current recession ends, the area -- only a short subway hop from midtown Manhattan and at the end of the Queensboro Bridge -- will see additional development.
Most of the construction, they say, would occur along the Jackson Avenue corridor, which includes the L.I.R.R. freight yard and the Citicorp tower, and along the waterfront.
Projects already being considered include a development project at Hunters Point, where the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and New York State and City hope to turn a 70-acre waterfront site into a vast residential, office, retail and recreational complex. The complex would include housing for more than 6,000 families and several office buidings. There are also plans for another 1,000 apartments in a second development.
As in many neighborhoods where such plans are in the wind, property owners like Mr. Greenstein -- who long ago bought the four-building complex that houses his office-supply and printing businesses -- welcome redevelopment, with the higher property values it would bring. Similarly enthusiastic are Long Island City shopkeepers who see themselves gaining from the influx of office workers and middle-class residents.
But others who live or work in the area, like factory operators who lease their sites and artists who gravitated to the neighborhood because of its low rents, fear the dislocation that often accompanies community redevelopment projects.
 
'Looking to Compete'
 Such worries have been temporarily eclipsed, however, by the strife over the trash-transfer plan. United Waste Removal is seeking needed permits from the state's Department of Environmental Conservation and the city's Sanitation Department. Opponents are arguing against the permits and have vowed to go to court in an effort to stop the project.
Susan McGowan, a spokeswoman for the railroad, said the agency decided to add the transfer station as a way to increase revenues.
"We're looking to compete with trucking companies," she said. "We've been there for about 150 years moving freight, and I don't see this as all that different from what we're presently doing and have done in the past."
Mr. McIntyre, the United Waste Removal spokesman, said the planned transfer station would be different from virtually all the other 260-odd garbage-transfer stations where trash from offices, restaurants and other businesses are taken for disposal. The placement of a number of the other stations also led to local opposition.
 
Won't Be Picked Through
 At a typical transfer site, Mr. McIntyre said, private haulers who pick up trash from nonresidential customers first empty their loads for sorting and recycling. The trash is then compacted into one-ton bales that are trucked to landfills. By contrast, he said, the garbage at the L.I.R.R. yard would not be "routinely dumped onto the floor and picked through."
Rather, trash already sorted and baled at seven or eight other transfer stations in Queens would be trucked there and loaded directly into boxcars without being "stored or stacked or placed on the ground," he said.
"As soon as the boxcars are filled, they will be sealed," Mr. McIntyre said, adding that this and the fact that "we're not handling loose material" would preclude vermin and filth and greatly reduce odors, which he said would be totally eliminated by odor-neutralizing equipment. Mr. McIntyre, of Cameron Engineering, which represents the waste company in the permit-seeking process, said that up to 1,000 tons of trash would be handled that way between 9 P.M. and 7 A.M. daily.
Nonetheless, Jack Rainey, executive director of the Long Island City Business Development Corporation, suggested that the transfer station be put in a part of Long Island City that is "not slated for major commercial development."
Claire Shulman, the Queens Borough President, agreed, declaring her "unconditional opposition" to the transfer station. She cited the "millions of public and private dollars and years of commitment" invested in the area, including the conversion of Public School 1 across Jackson Avenue from the freight yard into artists' studios and galleries, as reasons to fight the plan.
Joseph Cerbone, whose father, Vincent, operates Manducatis, a popular Italian restaurant also across from the freight yard, said he also opposes the transfer station.
"On paper it sounds sweet -- no odors, no rats, no problems," he said. "It never works out that way. Forklifts will puncture the bales."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 1991, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a proposed garbage transfer station in Long Island City, Queens, referred incorrectly to Annie Tsantes, who lives near the site. She is superintendent of the building where she lives, not landlord.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR) CITIGROUP INC (58%); CITY OF HOPE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR) CITY OF HOPE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RAILROADS; GARBAGE SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (74%); LANDFILLS (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (74%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (58%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991



167 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 5; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Guidepost;
Adjustable Mortgages

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:

Adjustable-rate mortgages, down to levels not seen in many years, are currently attractive alternatives to the 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage, which is now about 8.98 percent. A decision depends not only on rates but on how long an owner plans to stay in a home and how high interest rates might go over the life of the mortgage. (Someone who plans to move in five years, for example, may benefit more from an adjustable rate than someone who expects to stay a longer period.) In most cases the adjustables, known as ARM's, have caps, usually a maximum of two percentage points a year and six points over the life of the loan. The table shows the monthly payments on two $100,000 ARM's with an initial average rate of 6.78 percent. One rises a percentage point annually; the other, two percentage points. By comparison, the monthly payment on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage on $100,000 at 8.98 percent would be $803.18; the four-year total would be $38,552.63.

		 	 	 	ARM (w/1 point rise)		 	 	ARM (w/2 point rise)	 	 	 		Rate	Payment	Rate	Payment	 	 	 	 	 	Year 1	6.78%	$650.59	6.78%	$650.59	Year 2	7.78	717.13	8.78	786.10	Year 3	8.78	784.79	10.78	927.80	Year 4	9.78	853.31	12.78	1,073.97	Total		$36,069.84		$41,261.52	
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, North Palm Beach, Fla.)

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



168 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Ranomafana Journal;
Whose Forest Is It, the Peasants' or the Lemurs'?

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RANOMAFANA, Madagascar

 BODY:
Six years ago, Emile Rajeriarison and Loret Rasabo, who like generations of their families lived from the rain forest here, led some American researchers into the tree-canopied habitat they knew so well.
After some days of wading and walking, they spotted what they were looking for: a golden-colored lemur that the reseachers thought was probably extinct but that the men had known since childhood. 
 The newly discovered lemur -- long nose, bug-eyed primitive primate peculiar to this Indian Ocean island -- added to the 11 species already known in the Ranomafana Forest and convinced reseachers that the forest held one of the greatest unexplored diversities of fauna and flora left in the world.
In May the forest was declared a national park, the newest in Africa and the fourth in Madagascar.
 
An Enigmatic Ecology
 For scientists, the park presented a bonanza of unfettered research on one of the world's most enigmatic ecologies. For environmentalists, the park helped put on hold the destruction of Madagascar's forest, which was being cut so fast that scientists reckoned none would have been left by the year 2025. And for tourists interested in an exotic environment, the designation offered an untrammeled destination on the ever shortening list of remote places.
But for the 80,000 peasants who regard the forest as a source of wood for fuel and cleared it to make way for new rice fields, the transformation from usable forest to protected park spelled economic disaster.
The creation of Ranomafana National Park has thus become an example of one of the challenges for environmentalists in Africa in the 1990's: how to give a stake in conservation to peasants who suffer when their habitat is declared off limits.
At Ranomafana, about 240 miles south of the capital, Antananarivo, an unusually aggressive effort is being made to link scientific research and Western touristic pleasure with social benefit to the local people.
 
Training as Guides
 "This is not like Yellowstone -- created with no one living around it," said Mark Fenn, an American forester who has worked in West Africa and is now the director of the Ranomafana National Park Project. "We're asking the poorest people in the world to support wildlife. So an objective is to get the villagers to profit by training them as guides, getting them to set up camps for tourists."
Moreover, in an effort to show that the park will help rather than hurt the villagers, the project, which is partly financed by a $3.2 million grant from the United States Agency for International Development, plans to build schools in the villages, is already delivering health services and is searching for broad-scale alternative sources of income for the peasants, like vegetable gardening.
Mr. Rajeriarison, who is 30 years old, and Mr. Rasabo, 29, have dropped their former jobs -- herding cows in the forest and lopping fern trees to sell their trunks as decorative flowerpots -- and become permanent guides. They are being paid about $40 a month by Mr. Fenn's project, almost twice what they were earning before, to share their innate familiarity of the forest with the Malagasy and Western scientists who are beginning to flock here and to other parts of Madagascar.
 
Closed to West for a Time
 Situated 250 miles off the coast of Mozambique, Madagascar has long fascinated zoologists, geologists and botanists but was virtually closed to Westerners between 1975 and 1987, President Didier Ratsiraka allied himself with North Korea and the Soviet Union.
But in the last several years, as Mr. Ratsiraka has changed directions toward the West, a new wave of researchers have come to the island that is believed to be a torn-off chunk of Africa. Typical of the unanswered questions about Madagascar is the geological dispute over where it was when it was cast off more than a million years ago. Some geologists maintain that it broke off from what is now Mozambique, while others contend that it was out near Tanzania and floated down.
When Madagascar did split off, only a few types of plants and animals were on board. The flora and fauna were still at a primitive stage of evolution. Thus, the lemurs -- which had been widespread throughout the world -- were able to develop with no competition from higher forms of life, like monkeys.
There are no monkeys and no predators in Madagascar. More than 80 percent of the island's flowering plant species are not found anywhere else. For frog lovers, Madagascar is nirvana: 148 of its 150 frog species are endemic.
 
Rice Is Now Imported
 With its bulging population and diminishing supplies of the basic diet of rice -- the country used to be a rice exporter but now imports -- economists and scientists agree that the pressure on the forest that harbors much of this plant and animal life is almost uncontainable. At several spots along the road just north of the Ranomafana Forest, a visitor could hear the thud of falling trees and the swishing sound of an ax. In one place, a team of men and women hauled logs onto a makeshift trolley to sell for fuel.
Mr. Fenn said he believed that the forest here would have survived 10 to 15 years more if it had not been made into a park. And to convince the peasants that it is in their best interest, as well as the scientists, not to cut the trees, he plans to take some of the village leaders on a field trip to the coast.
"There are no trees because there are no seed sources," Mr. Fenn said. "I think I can convince them by taking them to the devastated areas along the coast that were once forest but are now desert."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The creation of a national park at Ranomafana is costly to peasants. (The New York Times)
 
Map of Madagascar showing location of Ranomafana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MADAGASCAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MADAGASCAR; RANOMAFANA NATIONAL PARK (MADAGASCAR) MADAGASCAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; ENVIRONMENT; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; MONKEYS AND APES; LEMURS ; FORESTS AND FORESTRY NATIONAL PARKS (91%); PRIMATES (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); TRENDS (84%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); ANIMALS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



169 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls as Jobless Data Move Traders Off Sidelines

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell in heavy trading yesterday and gold prices rose. Currency dealers attributed the activity to technical selling after release of the August unemployment report.
Many currency traders had refrained from active dealing since late last week, awaiting the Labor Department's report. 
 A sudden rise in unemployment could move the Federal Reserve Board to lower interest rates to aid a sagging economy, traders said, which would reduce the value of the dollar.
But the nation's jobless rate remained at 6.8 percent in August, in line with predictions. That did not prompt the dollar's decline, analysts said. But technical selling swept the market around noon, said Christopher Bourdain, manager of foreign exchange sales for Credit Suisse.
 
Heavy Selling Against Mark
 Alex Scarsini, a currency trader at Continental Bank in Chicago, said that trades that had been delayed before the employment report partly explained the heavy volume.
The heaviest selling was the dollar against the German mark, with the dollar quoted in New York at 1.7165 marks at closing, down from 1.7380 late on Thursday.
Traders also said some large investors sold dollars and Canadian and Australian dollars, which offer more attractive yields.
In London, the pound rose to $1.6965, from $1.6925 late on Thursday. In New York, sterling was quoted at $1.7180, more expensive than Thursday's $1.6940.
Earlier in Tokyo, before the unemployment figures were released, the dollar rose to close at 136.00 Japanese yen, from 135.32 yen on Thursday. Later, in London, it rose to 136.05 yen. In New York, the dollar was quoted at 135.65 yen, down from 135.80 yen.
Other late dollar rates, compared with those of late on Thursday, included: 1.5075 Swiss francs, down from 1.52595; 5.8310 French francs, down from 5.9030; 1,280.25 Italian lire, down from 1,295.50, and 1.13925 Canadian dollars, down from 1.14105.
Gold rose in London to a late bid price of $348.75 an ounce, up from $347.50 bid late on Thursday. In Zurich, gold rose to a closing bid of $348.40, up from $347.25 bid late on Thursday.
In earlier trading in Hong Kong, gold fell 22 cents an ounce to close at a bid $348.11. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery was quoted at $349.10 an ounce, up $2.10. A late bid at the Republic National Bank of New York quoted it at $348.90, up $2.20.
In London, silver bullion rose in London to a late bid of $3.97 an ounce, up from $3.88 bid late on Thursday. On the Comex, silver for current delivery closed at $3.969 an ounce, up 10.9 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); AUSTRALIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (62%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); AUSTRALIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CURRENCIES (96%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



170 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: The Numbers Squeeze Hollywood

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
These are hard times in Hollywood. No sooner did eager buyers rush to Columbia Pictures and MCA, the parent of Universal Pictures -- and Time merge with Warner Communications -- than the movie business went into a slump. And on the heels of a worse-than-expected summer, there are no signs of an imminent turnaround, industry experts say.
So far this year, the United States box office is down 3.9 percent, at $3.19 billion through August, compared with $3.32 billion for the first eight months of 1990 and $3.38 billion for 1989. It is hard to predict how the year will end, but there is little chance that this will be a banner year for Hollywood. Ticket sales are down this year so far from the previous two years. 
 "The movie business is sickly," said Joe Roth, the chairman of the 20th Century Fox Film Corporation. "There are just too many movies and too few admissions. The cost of movies has gone up over the last five years. If you looked at a graph of how much it cost to market a movie, the stairs got steeper and admissions have declined. And there are no new revenue streams. The numbers just don't add up."
"The business is in a very bad periodic down cycle," echoed Thomas Pollock, the chairman of Universal Pictures.
Studio executives, ever hopeful in their hits-driven business, thought several summer blockbusters might pull the industry out of the doldrums. Instead, a surprisingly large number of films fared poorly in the last few months, like "Hudson Hawk" with Bruce Willis and "V. I. Warshawski" with Kathleen Turner.
In addition, Fox's "Dutch," Tri-Star Pictures' "Bingo" and Columbia's "Return to the Blue Lagoon" each did less than $10 million at the box office. There were also dozens of flops, films that did not, in industry parlance, open.
Only three films became big hits: "Terminator 2," "Robin Hood" and "City Slickers."
But two of those films were extremely costly to make and were not produced by the major studios themselves. "Terminator 2," starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, was produced by Carolco Pictures Inc. and distributed by Tri-Star. Morgan Creek Productions produced "Robin Hood" for Warner Brothers. While those arrangements kept down the studios' costs, they also reduced their profit potential because the studios reaped only a distribution fee.
The crucial added revenue beyond ticket sales has also been affected, because the box office reception determines a film's worth in other markets. "The studios' revenues from theatrical box office are typically less than one-third of the total revenues from a feature film," said David Londoner, a movie analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Company. "But they determine, to a large extent, how much a studio can get from home video and other markets."
 
Ballooning Costs
 The poor box office business hurts studios doubly because budgets and marketing costs continue to rise despite efforts to control the ballooning costs of making movies. The result appears to be a squeeze on profit margins at a time when several major studios have become part of larger conglomerates that have substantial debt relative to equity. Harold Vogel, an entertainment analyst at Merrill Lynch, noted that the Sony Corporation's acquisition of Columbia entailed substantial borrowings. The same was true of Time's merger with Warner. The Pathe Communications Corporation, the parent of MGM, is in a financial crisis, as is the Orion Pictures Corporation.
While the overseas market for American films remains one of the brightest areas not only for the movie industry, but for the nation, it also contributes to the difficulties in controlling costs. Foreign sales have been the fastest-growing area in the movie business. And further growth is expected as Eastern Europe opens and ancillary markets explode around the world.
The problem is that action films generally do better than comedies overseas, because action films depend less on understanding a cultural context. But they are generally more expensive to produce and have increasingly come to depend on a handful of superstars like the extremely well-paid Mr. Schwarzenegger for their success.
As Mr. Roth put it: "It is one thing for a director to say, 'Say that line again.' It's another to say, 'Blow up that building again.' "
 
Few New Revenue Sources
 For now, there are few new revenue sources to help offset staggering production costs. Throughout the 1980's, film production costs climbed. But their impact was offset as the movie industry expanded the definition of entertainment on an almost yearly basis with the growth of home video, pay television and advertiser-supported cable.
But the days of exponential growth have slowed. So while mergers may look smart in several years, "the jury is still out" on just how savvy companies like Time Warner, Matsushita Electric Industrial and Sony that advocated the merger value of "synergy," "globalization" and "vertical integration" will be, Mr Vogel of Merrill Lynch said.
The news may be a particularly bitter pill for the Japanese companies that invested so heavily in United States studios, although their overall results make it difficult to tell what pain, if any, they are feeling.
Mr. Londoner estimated that in 1989, the eight major studios took in $1.2 billion in operating profits. He said he believed that that figure dropped to $1 billion in 1990 and could fall another 15 percent this year, although Mr. Londoner said he expected that industry efforts control costs might bear fruit.
With the risk of each film becoming greater, "it is a very tricky business," said one studio chief who declined to be named. Mr. Vogel noted that Paramount Pictures, for example, took significant write-offs in its movie division this year. And while Warner Brothers' releases have done well this summer, Mr. Londoner said he believed the company's operating profits for movies and television this year would be "flatish," with movies up somewhat and television operating profits relatively flat.
In the long term, the recession may benefit the industry. Peter Dekom, a partner of the law firm of Bloom, Dekom & Hergott who has been an entertainment lawyer for 18 years, said, "It is an opportunity for the buyers to trim down their machines and gear them up for a future operation, without appearing they are Simon Legree."
One problem has been that there are too many films. It is partly a legacy of the notion that market share would lead to profitability, which was particularly popular when the Coca-Cola Company owned Columbia Pictures.
But market share does not bring profitability, Mr. Roth contends. And in the rush to gain market share, companies were competing too hard for scripts and stars, when, if anything, the revenue potential of films would decline.
Although secondary markets like home video can help a box office hit, they can rarely save a disaster.
The recession is also said to be playing a role. "This business has never gone through a recession before when there was a viable home-video business," Mr. Roth said.
Deborah Field, a hair stylist who lives on Long Island, voices a reaction to the cost of going to the movies that does not seem unusual these days. She and her husband recently took their three children and a friend to the movies. "It cost us $27 for the tickets and about $10 more with popcorn and soda alone," she said. "I am not spending that again for an hour and 15 minutes. I'll go rent a video and pop my own popcorn."
But some movie industry executives and analysts argue that the recession is not a significant factor. "The only thing that counts is what is on the screen," said Sumner Redstone, who owns National Amusements, a movie theater chain. "If this summer had even three or four more 'Hot Shots!' to go, the summer would be different," he added, referring to Fox's release.
 
Efforts to Reduce Costs
 Studio executives maintain that they want to reduce the costs of films. And there are some efforts in that direction. For example, the frenzied bidding that took place for scripts has slowed. And reports say that some mid-price stars are not commanding as much money as they once did.
"Top-end actors are unaffected," Mr. Dekom said. "It is the people in the middle that will get squeezed because they cannot guarantee that a film will open or that it will do well overseas."
It will take time for those efforts to bear fruit. In 1990 the average budget was $26.8 million, according to the Motion Picture Association of America, up from $23.5 million in 1989 and $18.1 million in 1988. Marketing costs rose to $11.6 million in 1990 from $9.2 million in 1989 and $8.5 million in 1988. Costs are expected to rise again this year, according to one executive at a major studio who declined to be named.
 
Decline in Ticket Sales
 At the same time, ticket sales dropped to 1.06 billion in 1990 from 1.13 billion in 1989. And this year is down a bit from last year.
Although top-level executives continue to live well and pay themselves salaries that are extraordinary compared with those in many other industries, executives at firms that help put executives into positions at entertainment companies say they have never seen so much unemployment.
"The margins are much thinner and the competition is stiff," said William Simon, the managing director at Korn/Ferry International responsible for its entertainment division. "There seems to be a tremendous amount of unemployment in theatrical, movie television and, to a lesser degree, cable and video. It has to do with the consolidation of the industry, where the big companies are getting more powerful and the influence and success of the independents is becoming more difficult."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen Turner starred in "V. I. Warshawski," one of the films that fared poorly this summer. (Dean Williams/Hollywood Pictures)
 
Graphs: "Casting Shadows Over Hollywood's Silver Screen," shows average production costs, advertising costs per movie, as well as gross receipts for year through August and ticket sales for through July, for 1989-1991. (Source: Motion Picture Association of America, Variety)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP (69%); CAROLCO PICTURES INC (63%); SCHRODER & CO INC (60%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) MOVIE INDUSTRY (93%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); BRUCE WILLIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



171 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Treasury Issues Up Sharply

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply, and both long-term and short-term interest rates moved lower yesterday after the Labor Department reported that employers expanded their payrolls by a very modest amount last month.
The 34,000 increase in non-farm payroll employment was within the 30,000 to 50,000 rise most Wall Street economists had expected. A revision in the employment figure for July did surprise traders and analysts. The Labor Department said payrolls shrank by 73,000 in July, not 51,000 as originally reported. 
 "The August numbers were pretty much in line with what people had been thinking they'd be," one government securities trader said. "But before the numbers were announced, people were afraid the July figure would get revised up, not down. That was a pleasant surprise. And the three-month employment pattern looks pretty bullish for bonds."
 
Very Sluggish Economy
 Analysts said the data were consistent with an economy that is growing very, very sluggishly. They said the Federal Reserve Board could use the report to justify another cut in short-term interest rates at almost any time. But the Fed made no such move yesterday.
"What the market is saying is that the recession may be over, but the recovery we've got makes it tough to tell the difference," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial markets research at the Bank of America. "Something has to get the economy going again. That means it is up to the Fed to get interest rates lower."
Mr. Wood and other analysts said the Fed had to be encouraged with the market's positive response to the employment report.
But they said policy makers would probably delay a move to cut the overnight Federal funds rate and the discount rate until after August inflation and retail sales data are released next week.
 
Most Trading Was Early
 The bulk of the market's move yesterday took place within an hour and a half after 8:30 A.M., when the employment report was released. Trading fell off to a trickle by early afternoon, market participants said.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 1/8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late in the day at a price of 101 1/4, up 7/8 point, to yield 8.01 percent, compared with 8.09 percent late Thursday. A week ago, when market participants left for the long Labor Day weekend, the benchmark bond was offered at a price to yield 8.05 percent.
Treasury note issues posted strong gains in expectation that the Fed would reduce short-term rates soon.
By late in the day, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 7/8, up 5/8 point, to yield 7.74 percent. The 7 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 3/32, up 17/32, to yield 7.22 percent. And the 6 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 9/32, up 6/32, to yield 6.22 percent.
 
Lower Short-Term Rates

 Short-term Treasury bill rates moved lower.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 5.28 percent, down 4 basis points, or four-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 5 basis points, to a late offered rate of 5.31 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by 7 basis points, to 5.32 percent.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the Coca-Cola Company offered $250 million worth of seven-year notes through an underwriting syndicate led by Merrill Lynch & Company.
The 7 7/8 percent notes, which mature Sept. 15, 1998, were priced at $99.692 to yield 7.933 percent, 33 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/4 percent seven-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated AA-2 by Moody's Investors Service and AA by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, prices of most securities improved by about 1/8 point, traders said.
In the tax-exempt bond market, prices of most widely quoted municipal issues rose by 1/4 point in light trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INFLATION (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); US LABOR DAY (69%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



172 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 3.13 for Day but Falls 31.97 in Week

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
The stock market rose slightly yesterday, with traders showing both confusion and frustration. With bond prices up and a lukewarm employment report from the Government, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 3,011.63, up 3.13 points but off 31.97 for the week.
The market rose initially on a report that non-farm employment had gained and unemployment was remaining steady. But by midmorning, an aggressive sell program pushed the market down 12 points. In the midafternoon, the market began to climb again, helped by a strengthening bond market. 
 "There's a lot of complacency," said Richard E. Meyer, managing director of institutional trading at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company. "The market can be seen as making a case for the bulls and a case for the bears. So it's a real mixed bag."
 
Volume Edges Up
 Volume on the Big Board was 167.5 million shares, up from 162.4 million on Thursday, with stocks almost evenly divided between advancing and declining shares -- 762 stocks rose and 799 fell. The American Stock Exchange closed at 369.70, up 0.34 point, and the Nasdaq over-the-counter market rose by 0.01 point to close at 516.94.
Traders were looking for some direction from much-awaited employment statistics issued by the Labor Department yesterday, but found none. The statistics were only slightly better than what economists had predicted, with the jobless rate holding steady at 6.8 percent and non-farm employment rising by a 34,000, above an estimated increase of 22,000.
The bond market immediately reacted with rising prices in anticipation of a move from the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates to spur the economy. But investors in the stock market, which generally rises with the bond market, were not so enthusiastic. In the bond market, for instance, the price of a $1,000 face-value 30-year Treasury bond jumped by $9.38. In the stock market, prices seemed to drift up, trading in a narrow range.
 
Confusion Seen on Stocks
 "The stock market is one of confusion," said Paul J. Kronlokken, a technical analyst with Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood in Minneapolis. "People are trying to figure out if it is going up or down. They don't like it to stay in the same spot. It's very frustrating. You can make a bull or a bear case every day."
Many traders see the current market as tired, with investors running out of enthusiasm to buy equities. But the fact that the market has still not fallen below 3,000 is taken as a sign of latent strength. Yet, to maintain further upward momentum, traders say that more positive news is needed, and neither yesterday's employment numbers nor the bond market rally appeared to provide the needed push.
Among individual stocks, the most heavily traded on the Big Board was A.T.& T., which was off 1/8, to 39 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (70%); PJC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (70%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (52%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



173 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3922 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
Gorbachev-Yeltsin Session: 'Committed to Common Work'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 6

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the question-and-answer session of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union and President Boris N. Yeltsin of the Russian republic broadcast live this morning and moderated by Peter Jennings of ABC News. The comments of Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin were translated by ABC.
JENNINGS: Here in the United States we have an invited audience here at ABC News headquarters in New York City and we also have audiences all over the country, in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston, Chicago, Detroit, Atlanta, Miami, Philadelphia, Brooklyn, New York, and a great many people here eager to ask you questions. . . . 
 So many people have asked me to ask you how the two of you actually do get along. . . . Give us some sense of your personal relationship. It seems to have had a lot of ups and downs.
GORBACHEV: Once upon a time, that was a difficult question. Now it's easier to answer. A good deal of water has passed through the bridge and recent events have given us the opportunity for this cooperation to become more reliable and stable.
JENNINGS: Mr. Yeltsin?
YELTSIN: Yes, our relationship has not been an easy one. There have been dramatic times and there have been normal and businesslike times. There were times when President Gorbachev thought that I was a political corpse. I thought at one time that Mikhail Sergeyevich would not be able to be the President of the country. We have to acknowledge there were such moments.
But somehow we've adjusted, and particularly after recent events, after the putsch, after the coup, President Gorbachev has changed very seriously in the direction of the democratic movement, and on the basis of that, toward radical reforms. That was practically the last obstacle that remained between us. Now this obstacle has been removed. Now we are committed to common work, how to deal with the crisis.
 
Yeltsin's Power Game
 Q. Mr. Gorbachev, do you think Mr. Yeltsin may be using you as a pawn in his power game, and when everything's in place he will push you aside and assume total power?
GORBACHEV: There have been a lot of talk about that, depending on who is -- on the point of view of who is utilizing whom. Probably this is not entirely correct. In evaluating what is happening, this is a matter of us for a long time now having sensed, and society as well has sensed in this regard, that we do have to cooperate. And on the whole, I have to say that we are stressing right now -- it's not a matter of Gorbachev and Yeltsin. It's a matter of unifying all democratic powers in the country. We have a very difficult task in front of us, and that is essential, and that's what we have to do.
 
Military Aid to Cuba
 Q. . . . I am a Cuban exile in Miami. My question is, there is considerable Russian military hardware and personnel in Cuba today. Do you foresee the withdrawal of these military units in the near future? If not, why not?
YELTSIN: I think that process has begun in Europe and it must be continued in Cuba, too. Gradually the troops must be moved out.
GORBACHEV: I've been working on these problems for a long time now because of my obligations and I have to say to Americans that our relations with Cuba are being transformed in a different fashion so that they be more in line with those of other countries.
And I must say that this is very important that we do this on a mutually advantageous basis. And in this sphere, the military sphere, things are changing in a very essential fashion, and I am basically in agreement with that which was said by Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin. Processes are taking place and they encompass these processes as well.
JENNINGS: . . . A great many people on the island of Cuba are afraid that you and the Soviet Union as a whole will now abandon them. They will be left to their own devices and will not be able to afford to continue. Do you intend to continue providing aid to Cuba? And if so, what kind of aid and how much?
GORBACHEV: Mr. Jennings, I have just said that these relations are acquiring, I would say, a character which is of mutual benefit in an economic sense. We are taking that which we need -- sugar, ferrous metals, citrus fruits, that's what we need. And in turn, we provide those materials, those raw materials included, which are necessary to Cuba. And I think that's the way things will develop in the future. And I believe that we are not intended -- we don't intend to alter our relations in any different direction.
 
K.G.B. Files on Dissidents
 Q. Hi. My name is Oleg Myshkin and I defected from the Soviet Union quite a while ago. My question is, what's going to happen with the background and intelligence K.G.B. files on millions of Soviet people who found courage to confront the system? Are they going to be open to the public or will they be destroyed?
GORBACHEV: In the first place, we, in confirming the role of our leadership -- the leadership of Mr. Bakatin [Vadim V. Bakatin, the new K.G.B. chief] in this -- in guiding this agency -- that he has to reorganize this service. It will be different in nature. . . . But I support that which Mr. Bakatin said with regard to the K.G.B., that everything has to be done in such a fashion so as not to engender within society something which might be disruptive. But as for the archives, they are under control and we have adopted very strong, rigid measures and they will be utilized as is in the interest of science and history and in the interest of society. And that is the main thing, that these archives are being controlled.
 
Religious Beliefs
 Q. Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin, will you kindly state for the audience your personal religious beliefs?
GORBACHEV: I am an atheist. But I -- and I've never concealed this -- I respect the feelings and the religious beliefs of each citizen, of each person. This is a question of personal sovereignty, and we have done a good deal so as to, in a legislative sense, guarantee each person the right to call himself what he wants, to allow each person to select his own religion. And I wanted -- but I did feel it necessary to add that I am personally an atheist.
YELTSIN: . . . The services, the ritual aspect, I don't really observe those, although I've been in church quite often, because during the service there's a kind of internal feeling of moral cleansing, as it were. And I certainly make a point of attending church, not to mention my respect, of course, for believers. . . . I'm also superstitious, by the way.
 
Control of Nuclear Arms
 Q. . . . Who controls nuclear weapons use now? Who will control them in the future? And what are the protections against their accidental use?
GORBACHEV: In these recent days, we've had a number of conversations in this regard with political figures, including Senator Nunn, whom I respect as a major specialist in the area of disarmament. I had reason to believe -- and this is an area perhaps which has been little discussed on television -- the mechanism in your country and our country is known to those who need to know and not more. I have in mind the mechanism of control. But I had reason to believe and to say to Mr. Nunn that the control over nuclear weaponry in our country is more rigid than in your country. . . . No one should have any anxiety in this regard. . . .
JENNINGS: . . . Who controls nuclear weapons there now, the republics or the central Government? And what is the consultative relationship between the two?
YELTSIN: Today nuclear weapons are in the territory of three republics -- the Russian federation, the Ukraine and Kazakhstan. I think there will be a process underway whereby nuclear weapons from Kazakhstan and Ukraine will be transferred to Russian territory. And, of course, the most important thing is our responsibility for controlling nuclear weapons, and not only nuclear weapons. After all, we have atomic submarines and icebreakers, and this is all a matter of control, and it has to be very strict, this control.
So in the Supreme Soviet now we have set up a committee in charge of controlling not only nuclear weapons, but everything connected with nuclear processes. This control will be territorial and central. It will be very strict. . . .
JENNINGS: Just so we understand, Mr. Yeltsin, there is no single individual, then, now who would have control. You would not have control. Mr. Gorbachev would not have control. It would be the newly created state council which would have to agree on any use of nuclear weapons?
GORBACHEV: Perhaps I should take the initiative at this point myself inasmuch as we are now speaking about something which is closest to the supreme commander in chief, who is the President of the U.S.S.R. And I must say that we cannot reveal to you the mechanism, but I can at the same time assure you that this is a very rigid mechanism which excludes the possibility of any surprises. And there could not possibly be any decisions of an undesirable nature with regard to nuclear weaponry.
 
Food for Soviets
 Q. I'm a farmer from the state of Iowa. President Gorbachev, we have the food that you need. What can we and you do to see that it gets out to the people in the republics that need it under your new system of government now?
GORBACHEV: . . . We truly do need cooperation with regard to food and medications. And I want to assure you that in these days, we've been very occupied, together with the republics, in developing a reliable mechanism for supplying these foodstuffs to consumers. In this regard, I want to assure you that everything that will be received will be distributed under the control of the commission which has been created in the country and which includes not only specialists, but representatives of society and the republics. And we do have a mechanism of this sort just now. . . . I think that in our country we have established a lot number of -- a considerably large number of guarantees that this will be a reliable process.
YELTSIN: The point is that the -- until the federal structure is reorganized, as we intend -- radically reorganized -- we don't have any certainty in any structure which deals with external economic activity. Russia will deal directly with your exchange without intermediaries.
JENNINGS: How does that, Mr. Gorbachev, help the other republics besides Russia? Russia will deal for itself and all the republics will deal for themselves?
GORBACHEV: No. You know, it shouldn't be that way. There will be something amorphous produced in place of the Soviet Union. I think that there will be two stages. Now we are at a stage of distributing authority, as Mr. Yeltsin just mentioned. There will be inter-republican structures which will interact. And with regard to the control over the foodstuff situation and distribution of foodstuffs and questions of Western investments, we will utilize the republican committees and we will have this type of cooperation.
But more and more, we hope that this will be shifted to the republics. And in general, in creating a market-type space and in creating a normally functioning market, the enterprises, the corporations themselves, the producers who ultimately should be acting, they will be the ones to act. So we are going to be moving toward a market and changing our approaches.
JENNINGS: . . . Mr. Yeltsin, are you saying that the Russian republic, if there is a serious winter ahead, will take care of itself and that the other republics will have to take care of themselves?
YELTSIN: You have correctly understood me.
GORBACHEV: But I should say that yesterday I was listening to the leader of the committee, the inter-republican committee, on economic questions, Mr. [Ivan] Silayev, who is today the Prime Minister of the Russian federation, and he said he was -- had been working on this question with all the republics, all 15, and all of them had agreed on cooperation. So I think that which Mr. Boris Nikolayevich said does not exclude cooperation and coordination, and at the same time each republic will have its own specific area of questions with regard to foodstuffs, among other things, and they will work on these questions individually.
YELTSIN: That is to say, the American leadership must bear in mind it will be necessary to change somewhat the system of relationships with the Soviet Union. There has to be a two-path system -- contractual relations with the union about the principle, but everything that refers to details -- economics, science, introducing new production technologies, new technologies, social issues, culture -- this will be an element which will be done directly through the republics by direct agreement between the United States and Russia. And we had a conversation on this score with U.S. President Bush.
 
Anti-Semitism's Strength
 Q: I'm a rabbi in Houston, Tex. Anti-Semitism has been part of the Soviet Union for many, many years. That's why 150,000 Jewish people have left in the last 18 months and a million still want to leave at the present time. Can you tell me, do you think that anti-Semitism will become weaker in the Soviet Union now? Will it remain the same? Will it possibly become stronger? What about the Pamyat organization, which is a very, very strongly anti-Semitic organization? What about its future?
YELTSIN: Yeah, I've had dealings with Pamyat for quite a long time, more than one year, at least. I think in its work it's becoming different. It's not such -- so extreme as it was when it was started in 1987, so it seems to me that, in general, this process will be eased. It will ease off. Intuitively, I feel this.
GORBACHEV: . . . I am opposed to chauvinism and nationalism and separatism and any destructive separatist approaches, and opposed to that we might in any fashion persecute or limit the rights of the Jewish people. I think that today we can speak about the fact that we -- we cannot say that there is a -- that anti-Semitism has been giving -- given a free hand. I think that anti-Semitism is lessening.
 
Gorbachev's Poor Choices
 Q. . . . Gorbachev, you have made so many excellent decisions over the past year, great decisions. How did you allow those stupid coup plotters to serve in your Government?
GORBACHEV: Yes, for -- that's been a lesson for me. And if you think about the moral aspects of that which took place, then, most of all, I am amazed and troubled by the treacherous and treasonous nature of their acts. I think that that which we are now doing within the framework of our democratic processes, the cooperation between republics, I think that in the future, we will be able to exclude the possibility of such mistakes in appointing personnel.
We're going to cooperate on a very reliable basis so as to insure that, within the framework of the state council, we'll be able to appoint the most reliable people to these key positions. And we now have our state council, which has been created, and we have our senior personnel already in place.
JENNINGS: Mr. Gorbachev, I wonder . . . whether or not you think that having those men as colleagues who moved against you undermines your credibility with the people who may decide or not decide to freely elect you as the president, if you run?
GORBACHEV: . . . I was from the very beginning convinced that the putsch would fail. And I think if these people had given more thought to the questions, they should have known from the very beginning that this was doomed to failure.
And the country is different, the world is a different world, and we ourselves have to resolve things. We need different, more democratic approaches. And for that reason, I think that people have the opportunity to think things through. And they know my position, the position of the President, they know my devotion to the democratic processes.
And I think that they are asking themselves the same questions which are now being asked of me. And, in all probability, they will compare and decide, what does the President have most of? Which qualities? Can he make decisions? And then, on that basis, they will decide how they feel about him, and that's the way politics is.
 
Fate of Communism
 Q. Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin, considering the dismal history of Soviet Communism and of Communism everywhere where it's been in charge, should any country in the world continue to live under Communism?
YELTSIN: I think this experiment which was conducted on our soil was a tragedy for our people and it was too bad that it happened on our territory. It would have been better if this experiment had been conducted in some small country, at least, so as to make it clear that it was a utopian idea, although a beautiful one. I think gradually this will come to be understood by other countries where supporters of the idea of Communism still exist.
GORBACHEV: . . . The historical experience which we have accumulated has allowed us to say, in a decisive fashion, that that model has failed which was brought about in our country. And I believe that this is a lesson not only for our people, but for all peoples. But, at the same time, this induces me to turn to the experience of other countries all the more where a devotion to the socialist idea has led to very interesting results, both with regard to democracy and the development of the economy, of human rights.
I have in mind, perhaps, here the fact that the leadership of many European states and governments is in the hands of socialists, and they are successfully resolving a number of questions. Now, with regard to the next part, what would we recommend to other peoples? I believe it would be on our part somewhat pretentious to indicate to peoples how they should live. Let them examine our experience, their own experience, the experience of other countries, and make their own selection. . . .
 
Soviet Olympic Team
 Q. I'm with the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games. With regard to Olympic participation, can we expect that each republic will send a separate team to the Olympics, or will there be an effort made to send one Soviet team, as in the past?
GORBACHEV: Yes. I think that, nevertheless, we have enough athletes in spite of all the difficulties of the last few years that we can cooperate very intimately and we can get together within the union, participate in competitions, support our contacts. . . .
YELTSIN: I think there has to be a team representing the whole country, since, you know, regardless of the independence of three of the republics, the Baltic republics, nevertheless, athletes are taking part in our national teams, and I think we should apply it to the Olympic Games. I think that they will do that in the Olympic Games. Russia has no pretensions towards putting forward its own separate team.
 
Foreign Ownership
 Q. When we buy a factory in your country or a building, what insurance do we have that someone will not come into this factory or building and confiscate it and tell us it's not ours anymore?
GORBACHEV: I think that this question arises when you are thinking about past experience. Today we are creating very strong governmental guarantees which are reflected both in the Constitution and in yesterday's declaration of rights and freedoms and also in specialized legislation which has been passed and which has to deal with foreign citizens and foreign investors here. Everything in a radical fashion is being altered, and I confirm that the state guarantees that a purchased factory and property rights are to be observed within the framework of the law. So don't be concerned about that, and act boldly.
 
Political Prisoners
 Q. Are there still political prisoners in the Soviet Union and in Russia, and what will happen to them?
GORBACHEV: We considered -- and I believe that Boris Nikolayevich also considered -- that we don't have them. That's how we were informed. But as of the last few days, we have been told that there are people, a few persons, who are in -- imprisoned for mixed criminal and political factors. We have handed this question over to -- to the proper bodies to be examined, and we hope that the next day or two to learn about this.
We have asked our law-and-order bodies to look into the question and decisively determine what the situation is. Without question, we stand firmly for this position, and that is position of our society as a whole, that people should not be persecuted for dissidence or for their political views.
YELTSIN: I entirely agree, and we do have a list and we're working on these lists, specifically in order to release those people who have been illegally detained, convicted for their convictions. I think there are 21 more people on the list as of today.
 
Soviet Work Ethic
 Q. Gentlemen, Russia is richer in natural resources than America, so your people could become as affluent as we are. However, are they willing to learn to work hard and take risks in a free-market economy?
YELTSIN: People are trying to convince -- the opponents of a market economy are trying to convince us -- and of private property -- that our people won't understand. I think the people have spoken. They do understand, and they accept. In popular elections for the presidency of Russia, I came forward with a program for private property, different kinds of property owning, a market economy, entrepreneurship, foreign investment -- to open the door wide for foreign investors in Russia and create for them equal conditions, give state guarantees on behalf of Russia, and the people understand that and accept it. So the people itself, of course, is capable of working harder.
The Russian people are talented. They have good traditions. But the system, as you have seen yourself, cramped so much that it prevented a human being from expressing himself, developing himself. He had no property. There was no opportunity to do it. There was a ceiling put on salaries, a low ceiling. Now these . . . restrictions are being removed, and however much a person could earn, that's how much he will earn. There will be no restrictions from now on.
So we prepared a legislative basis -- we've adopted in the Supreme Soviet to see to it that people can really live better. But of course, a lot depends now on the organizers of production and on our joint efforts, our efforts jointly with you, to change our technology in various areas, which is backward and has lagged behind.
GORBACHEV: . . . I share the view of Boris Nikolayevich that, in democratizing our economic life, we, in the same fashion, are altering the conditions for labor. I have in mind here the opportunities for initiative. That's the main thing. I also would like to say here that recently in talking to Mr. Bush we discussed a group of experts coming to our country for them to see what's happening in our country. And this group of rather competent individuals was formed and visited the Ukraine, the northern Caucasus. They visited us here in Moscow and the Moscow area. And they were amazed by what they saw.
Many of them had not been inside the Soviet Union for a number of years. For example, the Sovietologist, Mr. Hewett -- Ed Hewett -- who is the aide -- an aide to President Bush -- they were amazed that, in a year, there were a number of changes that had taken place. They saw a lot of active, interesting people who were truly conducting businesses and had interesting plans. So life is changing. . . . This is a process which is taking place on a very large scale.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Jennings moderating a televised interview with Soviet leaders. On screen was a picture of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. (ABC News via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview; Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC) AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (84%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



174 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 The jobless rate remained at 6.8 percent in August, but factory payrolls rose for the second straight month, countering job shrinkage elsewhere. It was the first broad- gauge assessment of the economy's per formance for the month and showed no clear trend. Nevertheless, bond traders, conclud ing it left the Federal Reserve room to ease credit conditions, pushed interest rates down, and Democratic politicians, express ing doubts that recovery is under way yet, assailed the Bush Administration. [Page 35.] 
 The Government's system of awarding licenses for television and radio stations, cellular telephones and other modes of communication is being widely criticized as Congress moves to shift a broad swath of new broadcasting frequencies from Government to commercial use. But there is no consensus on how to fix it. In theory, the Government awards licenses to promote public goals; in practice, it gives away what is in effect valuable property that can be bought and sold like real estate. [1.]
 
 International
France blocked Eastern Europeans from the European Community. The E.C. had been trying for eight months to establish an eventual free-trade zone with Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, and lately had been seeking to extend the negotiations to Bulgaria and Romania, but the French Government was concerned with protecting its own cattle producers. [35.]
 
 Markets
Federal officials are investigating whether John H. Gutfreund violated a Federal criminal law by misleading Treasury Under Secretary Robert R. Glauber at a meeting in June about the firm's improper bidding practices for Treasury securities, officials said. Government officials said that the former Salomon chairman said that there was nothing improper about the May bid and that it was routine. [35.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply, and both long-term and short-term interest rates moved lower after the Labor Department reported that employers expanded their payrolls by a very modest amount last month. [44.]
The Dow Jones industrial average rose a scant 3.13 points to 3,011.63, but was off 31.97 for the week. An aggressive sell program in mid-morning pushed the market down 12 points. [44.]
The dollar fell in heavy trading and gold prices rose. Currency dealers attributed the activity to technical selling after release of the much-awaited August jobless report. [45.]
Cattle futures posted sizable price gains at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange for the third straight day, despite the ample supply of animals ready for slaughter. Grain and soybean futures prices were mostly lower, as were most energy futures. [45.]
 
 Companies
Unisys pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the Pentagon procurement fraud scandal and agreed to pay a record $190 million in fines and penalties. [37.]
GE Aerospace said it would eliminate about 2,000 jobs in New Jersey and Pennsylvania by the middle of 1992 through attrition, retirements and layoffs. The company cited tough competition in a shrinking military market [37.] Continental Airlines said it would eliminate 890 jobs as it entered the slower winter season. [37.]
 
 Today's Columns
Unsuspecting taxpayers who buy Government series EE savings bonds in the hope of financing college educations with tax-free interest may spring a tax trap. Your Taxes. [36.]
An electronic device to help parents ration the time their children watch television or play video games was patented by three North Carolina inventors. Patents. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (51%); UAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (79%); POLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (51%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (79%); POLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); MAMMALS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); TRENDS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); EURO (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); CRIMINAL LAW (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); SCANDALS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



175 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

Soviet Turmoil 4-7
The Baltic states became indepedent during deliberations at the first meeting of the Soviet Union's new ruling council. The act formally freed Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which were incorporated forcibly in the Soviet Union in 1940. Page 1 
 Latvia must decide who is a citizen, a complex question fraught with political, historical and even philosophical tension. But the question must be settled before its first Parliamentary elections in the next year or two. 1
New Latvian newspaper struggling to do it right 5
Very quietly, Leningrad is St. Petersburg 7
St. Petersburg finds a name so familiar and, well, czarist 7
Reporter's notebook: The astronauts aboard the Soviet space station Mir, who journeyed weightlessly above the coup, beamed down an urgent question: Was it true, they asked, that the space station was for sale? 1
TV critic's notebook: Soviet odd couple makes U.S. debut 7
 
 International 2-3, 8
A bitter political fight over Israel took shape as some Congressional supporters ignored President Bush's appeal to delay a request for $10 billion in loans and said they would push for quick approval. 1
France warned Gen. Michel Aoun, the exiled Christian general who battled the Lebanese Government, to tone down his calls for rebellion in Beirut to prevent French-Lebanese relations from worsening. 3
The Yugoslav peace conference will still be held today in the Hague, despite the continuing ferocious fighting between Serbs and Croats, the foreign ministers of the European Community have decided. 3
Ex-East German chief quits politics 3
Access to the European Community for Eastern European countries was blocked by France, which torpedoed an agreement in an effort to protect its own cattle producers. 35
One hundred are killed as two trains crash in Congo 2
Argentine prosecutor sees trials of generals winding down 8
Ranomafana Journal: Whose forest is it? 2
 
National 9-12
An ex-C.I.A. spymaster was indicted on 10 felony charges of perjury, false statements and obstruction of inquiries into the Iran-contra affair. Clair E. George had been the agency's third ranking official. 1
The indictment challenges the C.I.A. and the culture of the agency that Mr. George personified -- a culture of secrecy that for decades has successfully resisted efforts to penetrate and change it. 10
The first white man to be executed for killing a black in the United States since 1944 was put to death in Columbia, S.C. Donald (Peewee) Gaskins was convicted of the 1982 killing-for-hire of a fellow inmate. 1
A swath of broadcasting frequencies is being shifted from Government to commercial use as many experts inside and outside the Government say the system for awarding licenses has broken down. 1
Officials are trying to find out if Salomon chief misled U.S. 35
The economy showed no clear trend in August, with the unemployment rate remaining at 6.8 percent and a second straight rise in factory payrolls countered by job shrinkage elsewhere, the Government said. 35
White House Memo: The decision by two conservatives to defy a request from George Bush to cancel an ad attacking three Democratic Senators reflects the long tension between the President and the right wing. 9
Judge in Noriega trial bars records on Bush 11
U.S. judge is given prison sentence 12
Milwaukee police officers are dismissed 12
A witness in the Florida rape case against William Kennedy Smith said in a document that Senator Edward Kennedy discussed a rape allegation a day before he told the police he knew nothing about the incident. 9
Worry about cancer in Los Alamos is beginning to rise after a sculptor said he found a "cluster of cases of brain tumors" in the New Mexico community where the atomic bomb was first developed. 9
Fire victims died trying to shut exits 9
Costs of adapting to global warming in the nation should still be reasonable, a panel of scientists said. They were optimistic about the ability of farming and industry to adapt to climate change. 12
 
Regional 25-28
A contractor with suspected mob ties was barred last November from bidding on a school project but awarded a $884,000 contract in May with the Sanitation Department. 25
The celebration of Rosh ha-Shanah is is being greeted with a mix of hope and apprehension in Crown Heights, where thousands of Jews are expected to gather this weekend to celebrate their New Year. 25
The records of the grand jury that declined to bring charges against a Hasidic man in Crown Heights will not be released, a judge said, rejecting an extraordinary request by the Brooklyn District Attorney. 27
Prof. Leonard Jeffries of City College has not had a traditional rise as a scholar and demonstrated a penchant for controversy long before the current furvor over a speech he gave that has been attacked as racist. 25
A well-heeled City Council candidate running in the East Village was unknown until his advertisements began appearing everwhere. The campaign of Philip K. Howard, a lawyer, is a testament to the power of money in the race. 25
Jacob Riis beach seems forgotten these days. Attendance on the stretch of sand on the Rockaway Peninsula is down, despite a promotional campaign and local residents' opinion that it is the area's best beach. 26
Body found in box in midtown 27
A bomb hoax closes Madison Avenue for 2 1/2 hours 27
Six youths admit guilt in Queens cemetery case 28
New Jersey could take center stage in the national abortion debate now that a Superior Court judge has said he is willing to consider a lower judge's ruling that human life begins at conception. 26
Parking investigator charges cover-up of bogus ticketing 26
Cuomo seeking bill to restrain insurance costs 28
 
Business Digest 35
 
Sports 29-34
Baseball: Mets lose to Braves 31
Tapani and Twins beat Yanks 31
Column: Berkow on Navratilova 29
Football: Notre Dame is missing a few people 29
Hockey: Notebook 32
SportsLeisure: Blind golfers tee it up 33
Tennis: Navratilova and Seles reach Open final 29
Connors has crowd; Courier has cap 32
 
Consumer's World 50
Using laser to catch speeding motorists
Short-term beeper rental
Gripe water for babies
New suspension bar for bikes
Guidepost
 
Obituaries 13
Francis Turner, an educator
Hallie Burnett Zeisel, a novelist
 
Arts/Entertainment
Dracula in the subway 15
MTV video awards 48
Theater: "Skin of Our Teeth" 14
Music: "The Death of Klinghoffer" 15
Dance: Kristin Jackson Dance 15
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials 22
Bridgeable gap in South Africa
Breaking the scroll cartel
Justice in Crown Heights
Few choices for Civil Court
Letters 22
Russell Baker: Oh, what joys impend 23
Anna Quindlen: The graffiti on the wall 23
Alan Tonelson: Put America first 23
Hershel Shanks: Scholars, scrolls, secrets and "crimes" 23
Mark Paslawsky: Recycle military bases 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BALTIC STATES (94%); LATVIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); LEBANON (93%); FRANCE (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ESTONIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIC STATES (94%); LATVIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); LEBANON (93%); FRANCE (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ESTONIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDICTMENTS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (76%); COUPS (74%); SPACE STATIONS (74%); SPACE EXPLORATION (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); FELONIES (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); ESPIONAGE (61%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



176 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
SOVIETS RECOGNIZE BALTIC INDEPENDENCE, ENDING 51-YEAR OCCUPATION OF 3 NATIONS

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 6

 BODY:
The Soviet Union's new ruling council recognized the independence of the three Baltic states, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, today at its first meeting.
The move formally freed the three small republics, which were incorporated forcibly into the Soviet Union in 1940 but renewed their drive for independence in the era of glasnost. Their campaign was bitterly resisted by Moscow until last month, when central controls unraveled in the wake of the failed coup and a procession of foreign governments granted the Baltics diplomatic recognition. 
 In matching proclamations for the three republics, the council also called for negotiations on disentangling the complex economic, political and military ties between the new states and the rest of the Soviet Union.
 
Council Is Secretive
 The declarations were the first action by the State Council, a committee of republic leaders and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev that was granted sweeping emergency powers by the national Congress on Thursday to control the rapid disintegration of the Soviet Union. The proclamations were read later in the day by Foreign Minister Boris D. Pankin. [Excerpts from news conference, page 4.]
Other changes continued to reverberate in the wake of the failed coup, with the city of Leningrad winning a battle to change its name back to the original St. Petersburg. The move, approved by residents in a referendum in June, was formally affirmed today in a decree of the Russian federated republic's Parliament, the press agency Tass reported. [Page 7.]
It was unclear how many republics were present at the meeting of the new State Council, which issued no statement on what it discussed aside from the Baltic question.
 
Membership Is Vague
 Soviet news reports said the Council had agreed to meet twice a month, but the improvisational nature of the new body was underscored by a reported decision not to fix its membership, allowing republics to take part either as "associates" or observers.
The provision and the secretiveness appeared to reflect a hope of including as many republics as possible in the council's deliberations, including republics in which independence fever and resistance to central controls are running high.
Mr. Pankin reported, for example, that the chairman of the Georgian Parliament had attended part of the session, although Georgia had not necessarily been expected to take part.
The Soviet news reports indicated that the main order of business, aside from independence for the Baltic states, was to initiate action on the nation's two most urgent concerns: the economy and the military.
The evening television news program said the Council received a proposal for a new economic agreement among the republics drafted by Grigory A. Yavlinsky, an economist and free-market advocate who was appointed to an interim administration by Mr. Gorbachev after the coup failed.
Mr. Yavlinsky, briefly cornered by reporters, said only that "the ideals of the 500-day program are alive." The 500-day plan was a blueprint for a rapid transition to a market economy drafted by Mr. Yavlinsky and other economists in June 1990, only to be shelved by Mr. Gorbachev as the President shifted to the political right.
The Council also heard from the Defense Minister, Marshal Yevgeny I. Shaposhnikov, who told reporters later that a Committee on Military Reform was being created and that he would soon meet with republic officials responsible for security.
The decision on the Baltic republics effectively acknowledges a fait accompli, since more than 60 nations, including the United States, had already recognized the three states since the coup and Western ambassadors were already taking up residence.
Official Soviet recognition of the Baltic states had been expected at the Congress of People's Deputies, but republic leaders evidently decided not to raise the issue in the assembly for fear of increasing the momentum for secessionist moves in other regions.
The proclamations declared that Moscow would support the entry of the three republics into the United Nations. All three declared their hope of becoming integrated into Europe and the "world community."
The more immediate challenge, however, is to negotiate agreements on disentangling themselves or maintaining links with the Soviet Union.
 
Entwined With Other Republics
 The economies, transportation network, energy and social services of the Baltic states are entwined with those of other republics, and each of the three has a sizeable population of non-Balts. About 400,000 Soviet troops are stationed in the Baltic region, and their swift withdrawal is simply impossible at a time when other republics are already reeling from the pressure of housing and feeding soldiers returning from Eastern Europe.
The wide expectation in Moscow is that at least two of the republics, Estonia and Latvia, may take part in the "common economic space" advocated by the new Soviet Government. The concept has yet to be defined, but it envisions maintaining some form of coordination of monetary and economic policy among the republics.
In Lithuania, President Vytautas Landsbergis said relations with the Soviet Union would be considered "when it becomes clear as to what the Soviet Union actually is."
In recognizing the independence of the Baltic states, the State Council's proclamations made no explicit reference to the brutal occupation by Soviet troops on the eve of World War II, nor any concession on the legitimacy of that act. The only hint at the past came in the opening words of the proclamation, which said the Soviet Union was "taking into account the historic and political situation preceding the entry of the republic into the U.S.S.R."
Pressed on the question at a press conference, Mr. Pankin sidestepped the issue and urged reporters not to "split hairs."
 
Lithuania Is Gratified
 A statement issued by Mr. Landsbergis emphasized that his country had not asked for recognition, but "to discontinue the annexation."
But he said that the fact that the State Council had made the decision to recognize the Baltics was "a positive and gratifying factor in all respects, not only for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but for the Soviet Union itself and the entire world community."
In Latvia, the Speaker of the Parliament, Anatolijs Gorbunovs, declared, "The republic of Latvia joins once again the community of free and democratic nations."
The President of the Estonian Parliament, Arnold Ruutel, who was the only Baltic leader to attend the meeting of the State Council, said at a news conference in Moscow that independence marked "the very beginning of a long and difficult road of establishing conditions of dignity for everyone in Estonia."
"We must try to distance our state structures as much as possible from the center," he said. His remarks reflected a common hope among the Baltic states that they will eventually achieve the standard of living of their Scandinavian neighbors across the Baltic Sea. It is a standard they believe they would have enjoyed had they not been annexed by Moscow.
 
History of Being Dominated
 Though differing in ethnic heritage, language and religion, the Baltic states share a history of domination, first by the Russian empire and then -- after a brief 23 years of independence made possible by the exhaustion of major powers after World War I -- the Soviet Union.
In the infamous secret protocol to the German-Soviet pact of August 1939, the Baltics were relegated to the Soviet sphere of influence. They were annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940 with mass deportations, arrests and executions. Estonia lost more than 60,000 people, Latvia about 35,000, Lithuania about 45,000.
With the onset of glasnost, demands for independence quickly spread, with Lithuania taking the lead. Mr. Gorbachev and the Kremlin bitterly fought the increasingly militant leaders of Lithuania, imposing an economic boycott for about two months in 1990, ordering threatening movements of troops, and finally sending in tanks to secure the television tower in Vilnius in an operation in January that took 14 lives.
These and other actions in the other Baltic republics only strengthened nationalist sentiments. Estonia and Latvia joined Lithuania after the coup last month in declaring their independence, this time with the backing of the world.
 
Ethnic Tensions
 Elsewhere around the nation, hot spots of ethnic tension continued to smolder.
Railways in Moldavia remained blocked by Russians and Ukrainians opposed to the republic's plan to rejoin Romania. The impasse has created shortages that are growing increasingly serious.
Georgians opposed to the authoritarian rule of President Zviad Gamsakhurdia have massed daily around his Parliament while he expanded his powers by assuming direct control over the republican police and K.G.B.
In the Chechen-Ingush ethnic region, demonstrators who had been blockading the Parliament for 15 days to demand the resignation of parliamentary leaders finally stormed the building, forcing the chairman to resign. The protesters have accused the lawmakers of supporting the failed coup by Communist hard-liners.
 
Hope of Less Chaos
 But the inauguration of the new State Council in Moscow and reports that it has set to work on stabilizing the economy raised hopes that the centrifugal forces set loose by the coup are being brought under control.
Ivan S. Silayev, the Russian Prime Minister and head of the interim national economic committee, said the State Council had agreed to meet next on Sept. 16 to consider proposals for economic cooperation among the republics and setting up the Inter-Republican Economic Committee, which was formally created by the Congress on Thursday.
Mr. Silayev warned that there was no time to waste in moving "from the economics of the absurd to the economics of common sense."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the Soviet changes in the name of Leningrad, site of the WInter Palace, is again St. Petersburg. (Vlastinir Shone/Gamma Liaison)(pg. 1)
 
Map of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia
 
Charts: "At a Glance: Newly Independent Baltic States
 
ESTONIA
 
1990 Population: 1,573,000
 
Area: 17,400 sq. mi.
 
Economy: Fishing, farming and shipbuilding are most important industries.
 
People: Estonians are ethnically and linguistuically related to Finns. Russian minority concentrated in Tallinn and eastern areas.
 
History: Conquered by German kinghts in the Middle Ages; ruled by Sweden before 1921, then Russia until 1920; independent after World War I until occupied and annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940.
 
President: Arnold Ruutel
 
Flag Colors: Top and bottom, blue, black and white.
 
LATVIA
 
1990 Population: 2,681,000
 
Area: 24,600 sq. mi.
 
Economy: Most industrialized of Baltic states, with textiles, chemicals, electronics, machinery manufacturing; dairy farming.
 
People: Latvians speak a Baltic language and are descended from the tribes of Liv, Lett and Kur.
 
History: Conquered by German knights in the Middle Ages; ruled by Lithuania, then Sweden before 1721, then Russia until 1918; independent after World War I until occupied and annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940.
President: Anatolijs Gorbunovs.
 
Flag colors: Maroon and white.
 
LITHUANIA
 
1990 Population: 3,690,000
 
Area: 25,200 sq. mi.
 
Economy: Heavily agricultural, with dairy and meat farming, flax, sugar beets, potatoes and vegetables. Many mineral resources; hydroelectric power.
 
People: A Baltic people with ancient roots.
 
History: Rule of Lithuanian kings extended to Byelorussia and the Ukraine in the 15th century; merged with Poland in 1569; annexed by Russia when Poland was partitioned in the 18th century; independent in 1920; occupied and annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940.
 
President: Vytautas Landsbergis.
 
Flag Colors: Top to bottom, yellow, green and red.
 
(Sources: The Europa World Yearbook; Encyclopedia Britanica; U.S.S.R. Facts and Figures Annual)(pg. 4)
 
 
"The Baltics: The Path to Independence"
 
1990
 
March 11: The Lithuanian Parliament declares the republic's independence, arguing that its incorporation into the Soviet Union was illegal.
 
April 18: Moscow cuts off oil supplies to Lithuania, the first step in economic sanctions imposed by the Kremlin.
 
May 4: The Latvian Parliament announces a step-by-step plan for independence.
 
June 29: Lithuania votes to suspend independence declaration to allow discussion with Moscow on its future.
 
July 12: Soviet Government lifts sanctions.
 
1991
 
Jan. 10: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev tells Lithuania to act in line with Soviet law or face possible direct rule.
 
Jan. 13: At least 13 people are killed and more than 100 wounded when Soviet Army storms television tower in Vilnius, Lithuania's capital. A curfew is imposed and attempts are made to install pro-Moscow government.
 
Jan. 20: At least four people are killed and nine wounded when Soviet troops storm the Latvian Interior Ministry in Rigs.
 
Jan. 22: Gorbachev says the shootings in the Baltics will be investigated and demands immediate repeal of laws passed by pro-independence parliaments in the three republics.
 
Feb. 9: Lithuanians, in a poll declared illegal by Gorbachev, votes by huge majority to restore the republic's pre-World War II independence.
 
July 29: The Russian Federation and Lithuania sign a friendship treaty recognizing Lithuania as a sovereign state.
 
Aug. 20: After a hard-line coup in Moscow against Gorbachev, Estonia declares its immediate independence.
 
Aug. 21: Latvia declares independence.
 
Aug. 25: Lithuanian President says achieving Baltic independence is now a formality.
 
Sept. 2: President Bush announces the United States is granting full diplomatic recognition to the Baltic Republics.
 
Sept. 6: The Soviet Union's new ruling council, at its first meeting, recognizes the independence of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.
 
(Source: Reuters)(pg 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BALTIC STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); LITHUANIA (96%); ESTONIA (96%); LATVIA (96%); GEORGIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (92%); SWEDEN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; LITHUANIA; LATVIA; ESTONIA; LENINGRAD (USSR); ST PETERSBURG (USSR) BALTIC STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); LITHUANIA (96%); ESTONIA (96%); LATVIA (96%); GEORGIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (92%); SWEDEN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); COUPS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); POLITICS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); TRENDS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%); REFERENDUMS (65%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE ; PANKIN, BORIS D (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



177 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Rarity for U.S. Executions: White Dies for Killing Black

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

 BODY:
Nearly half a century and at least 1,000 executions since it last happened in the United States, a white person was executed yesterday for killing a black.
Donald (Peewee) Gaskins was put to death in Columbia, S.C., early yesterday for the 1982 hired killing of Rudolph Tyner, a fellow inmate and a black man who had himself been convicted of murder. The son of Mr. Tyner's victims hired Mr. Gaskins to kill Mr. Tyner, which he did by giving him a bomb disguised as a radio. 
 Not since 1944, when a Kansas man was executed for killing a black in an attempted robbery, has a white person in the United States been executed for the death of a black. No white has been executed in South Carolina for such a killing since 1880. The total number of executions in the state since that time is unclear, but 245 people have been sent to the state's electric chair since 1912.
 
Systemic Racism Is Seen
 Opponents of capital punishment have repeatedly asserted that such disparities reflect persistent, systemic racism in the application of the death penalty. The death of Mr. Gaskin in an electric chair seemed to some opponents to underscore just how rare it is in this country for a white to be executed for killing a black.
Mr. Gaskins had already been convicted of nine other murders, all of them of whites. For one murder he had previously been sentenced to death, a conviction that was commuted to life imprisonment; for the others, he was serving consecutive life sentences. Mr. Gaskins had been linked to several other killings as well.
"That's apparently the sort of criminal record a white man needs to be executed for the murder of a black," said David Bruck, chief lawyer of the South Carolina Office of Appellate Defense, who represents many death row inmates.
Although Mr. Gaskins was an avowed racist who said he killed Mr. Tyner in part because he was black, death penalty experts inside and outside South Carolina contended that race played little part in Mr. Gaskins's sentencing by a jury. The victim was another inmate; any failure to impose the death penalty in such a case would deprive the state of its only meaningful deterrent to prison killings.
"As a matter of state correctional policy they had to give death in this case," said Richard Burr of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc. in New York. "If you're going to let the families of murder victims murder their murderers, you've got a serious problem. The racial combinations mean very little in light of the kind of homicide it was."
According to a 1989 study by a sociologist at the University of Florida, of 15,978 executions in the United States or the American colonies since 1608, only 30 -- one in every 533 -- were of whites who killed blacks. Several of the instances involved the murder of slaves and were, therefore, treated as economic crimes against slaveholders. In many others, including the 1944 Kansas case, the murderer had long criminal records.
 
Statistics on Slayings
 Since executions were resumed in the United States in 1977 after a decade-long hiatus, 42 of the 153 people executed have been blacks who killed whites; until yesterday none have been of whites who killed blacks.
"The scandalous paucity of these cases, representing less than two-tenths of 1 percent of known executions, lends further support to the evidence that the death penalty in this country has been discriminatorily applied," the sociologist, Michael Radolet, wrote.
Statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigation show that more than 90 percent of people convicted of murder or manslaughter in the United States are intraracial, whites killing whites or blacks killing blacks. The statistics suggest that in the last three years cases in which blacks killed whites were about twice as common as cases of whites killing blacks.
That would mean that slightly less than 3 percent of such slayings in the United States involve whites killing blacks, far more than the two-tenths of a percent of the executions of whites who killed blacks.
 
'The Tony Cimo Story'
 Opponents of the death penalty said that a sidelight of the Gaskins case actually highlighted how profoundly race mattered in capital cases. They contrasted Mr. Gaskins's fate with that of the white man who hired him for the killing, Tony Cimo of Murrell's Inlet, S.C. Mr. Cimo was sentenced to eight years in prison but was released after serving only six months. He was portrayed on a CBS television movie, "Vengeance: The Tony Cimo Story."
Mr. Bruck called the arrangement "a high-tech lynching," and added: "About all you can say about South Carolina's efforts to correct racial disparities in this case is that Tony Cimo served six more months than he would have half a century ago.
"This is hardly evidence that South Carolina is protecting black lives more energetically than it used to," Mr. Bruck continued. "Gaskins's crime, after all, is that he killed his black victim before the state could get around to killing him itself."
Only hours before he was escorted to the electric chair at Broad River Correctional Institution, Mr. Gaskins tried to commit suicide by slashing his wrists with a razor blade he had swallowed the previous week, then coughed up. He received 20 stitches.
In life, Mr. Gaskins, who earned his nickname for his height of 5 foot 6, was what one death penalty opponent called "a poster boy for the electric chair." As a teen-ager he was sent to reform school for hitting a girl in the head with a hatchet.
He confessed to stabbing, shooting or drowning 13 people, whom he buried in backwoods graves near the rural community of Prospect, in the heart of South Carolina's tobacco belt. He drove at least some of them to their burial sites in a purple hearse.
Mr. Gaskins had a particular animus toward blacks, and once drowned a white woman who was pregnant with a baby fathered by a black man.
Mr. Tyner was killed by a bomb that looked like a homemade radio, which blew up when he placed it to his ear. Mr. Gaskins denied any role in the killing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Gaskins, who was executed yesterday in South Carolina. (Associated Press) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; BLACKS (IN US); SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (95%); PRISONS (90%); MURDER (90%); SENTENCING (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); ROBBERY (55%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID; TYNER, RUDOLPH; GASKINS, DONALD

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



178 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: A New Role for Beepers: Keep Families in Touch

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The next time you hear the insistent tones of a beeper in a restaurant or theater, the wearer may not be a doctor or a plumber on call but an expectant father awaiting word from his wife, a mother needed by her baby sitter or someone who just needs to be in touch with a business or home.
Mark and Amy Collier of St. Louis, who are expecting a child this month, rented a beeper last week to communicate instantly when they are apart. Mr. Collier is an account manager for SmithKline Beecham and Mrs. Collier is a teacher. 
 "He's always on the road calling on key accounts," Mrs. Collier said. "Our game plan is that I would call the beeper number wherever I am and he would know it's the time."
Beepers, or pagers, have long been used by professional and business people to make more use of time away from their phones. But recently they have been making greater inroads among people who want them or personal or family reasons for only a short time.
"Short-term renting is really very limited right now,' " said Jonathan Tarlin, a senior consultant at Economic Management Consultants International of Washington. "But it has been beginning to penetrate the retail market in the past six months."
Last month, Metromedia Paging Services, a major provider of paging services that is based in Secaucus, N.J., began testing daily and weekly beeper rentals at 35 supermarkets owned by Schnucks Markets, a Midwestern chain. The units rent for $2 to $3.50 a day or $10 to $17.50 a week, depending on the model.
 
Like a Starter, or Sampler Kit
 "The industry has been focused for the most part on business applications," said Cliff Eason, president of Metromedia Paging. "This is sort of a starter kit and gives people the ability to sample it."
"We rent them in every store that has a video department," said Craig Schnuck, president of the supermarket chain. "The customer signs a rental agreement and shows identification," he added, citing a process similar to renting a videotape.
Paging, or radio paging, is a one-way calling system in use more than 40 years. As a form of wireless communication, It transmits signals to a beeper that receives only the signal intended for it.
More than 600 companies around the country, called carriers, offer one or more of four types of services: tone only, a sound or a vibration; tone and voice, a voice message of up to 10 seconds; numeric or digital, which displays a phone number to call; and alphanumeric, which displays a text message of up to 1,000 characters.
 
11 Million Rent or Own Them
 About 11 million paging subscribers have bought or rented beepers, according to Telocator, a trade association for the personal communications industry. Its surveys show that more than two-thirds of these devices are used for business.
"When cellular service was introduced, many industry analysts forecast the demise of paging," said Thomas Stroup, president of Telocator. "Instead of replacing paging, cellular served to raise the market consciousness of the value of mobile communications. Paging is the lowest-cost form of personal communications."
Now the industry is looking at short-term rentals. Paging Network, another carrier, is offering brightly colored devices -- orange, green or pink -- to attract more customers. "We are renting many 'baby beepers,' " said Terry Scott, senior vice president of the company, referring to the ones used by expectant parents. "Hopefully, many of the parents will retain the beepers after the baby is born."
Other temporary users of beepers include working couples who are waiting for a delivery, but don't want to be stuck at home (they leave their beeper number on the door), adults with elderly parents who may need medical care quickly when alone, and families that want to keep in constant contact with their children.
 
Banned by Some Schools
 A number of students at schools and colleges also rent beepers, but others are forbidden to do so because, in some areas, the use of the devices is associated with traffickers in illegal drugs. "Because pagers are somewhat associated with drug calls, some schools don't allow students to wear the pagers," said Ralph Haller, chief of the private radio bureau of the Federal Communications Commission, which regulates paging and licenses carriers.
Another difficulty with beepers is that there is no two-way communication. "The problem has always been, 'I've got the message, now I've got to call someone,' " said Barry Marks, vice president and general manager of the Gartner Group, a management consulting concern based in Stamford, Conn., "but as more people away from home want to be contacted, beepers have been growing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark and Amy Collier of St. Louis have rented a beeper during Mrs. Collier's pregnancy, to maintain contact when they are apart. (Bill Stover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SMITHKLINE BEECHAM EGYPT (57%); SMITHKLINE BEECHAM SEIYAKUKK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PAGING SYSTEMS; RENTING AND LEASING PAGING (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



179 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Panel Says Nation Has Ability to Adapt to Global Warming

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
If global warming caused by human activity makes the world significantly hotter, the United States should still be able to adapt at a reasonable cost, a panel of the National Academy of Sciences said today.
The committee said the effects of warming weather on nature would be hard to control, but it was optimistic about the ability of American industry and farming to adapt to the climate change, known as the greenhouse effect because of the way pollutants trap heat in the atmosphere. 
 "Human adaptability is shown by people working in both Riyadh and Barrow," the panel's report said. "Recent American migration has, on average, been toward warmth."
 
Dissent From a Member
 One of the 14 panel members dissented, saying in a footnote that the committee's "complacent tone is unwarranted." The member, Jane Lubchenco, a professor of zoology at Oregon State University, said that indirect costs, especially the environmental effects of some of the adaptation measures, had not been adequately considered.
"The implicit message of the report is that humans can adapt to the predicted climate changes without worrying about these other costs," she wrote.
The panel recommended diversifying water supplies, improving insulation in buildings and encouraging conservation of as many animal species as possible as "a natural protection against surprises and shocks, climatic and otherwise."
Since climate change might force some endangered species to migrate, the report said, "conservation efforts need to give more attention to corridors for movement, to assisting species to surmount barriers, and to maintaining species when their natural environments are threatened."
The adaptation panel is one of four committees working on a National Academy of Sciences study of the policy implications of global warming.
Another panel published a report in April saying the United States should take modest steps to limit production of greenhouse gases, despite uncertainty about the threat of global warming.
Both sides in the debate, those who urge immediate action and those who say such measures are too costly considering the uncertainty, praised that report.
Greenhouse gases, like carbon dioxide, methane and chlorofluorocarbons, trap heat around the earth. The academy's April report said that growing amounts of industrial emissions were likely to increase temperatures by 2 to 9 degrees Fahrenheit by the middle of the next century.
The adaptation panel, headed by Paul E. Waggoner of the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station in New Haven, found no cause for alarm. "The historical evidence suggests that American farmers can keep up with the gradual climate change of the magnitude the panel assumes," the report said. "The capacity of humans to adapt is evident in the rapid technological, economic and political changes of the past 90 years," the panel said. "The average renewal period for machinery and equipment and the average age of buildings are one to three decades."
 
Strain on Developing Countries
 The report said it might be harder for developing countries to adapt to global warming. It encouraged "efforts to advance regional mobility of people, capital and goods," better preparations for disaster and famine relief and expansion of free-market economies, so that changing prices can serve as market signals that would encourage people to adapt to global warming.
The committee concluded that even low-lying cities would be able to survive global warming, but said there seemed to be little that humanity could do to help the marine environment adapt to climate change.
"None of the projected effects of the warming would make large areas uninhabitable," the committee wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%); OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%); OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FORECASTS; GREENHOUSE EFFECT GLOBAL WARMING (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); METHANE (78%); WEATHER (78%); ZOOLOGY (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); NATURAL GAS (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); ANIMALS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



180 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Giving Riis, the Forgotten Park, a Better Image

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

 BODY:
Chris Hasson says he has been a permanent fixture at the Jacob Riis Park beach for 18 years, from his first visit at 4 years old, through occasional spying trips to the nudist section of the beach as a teen-ager, to his three forays a week with his friends today.
"We're the cleanest beach around," Mr. Hasson said, adding that Coney Island, the New Jersey Shore and Jones Beach on Long Island could not compare to this stretch of sand on the southwestern edge of the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens. 
 But if the Jersey Shore, Coney Island and Jones Beach cannot compare with Jacob Riis, then few people seem to know it, or care. On a recent visit to the park, only a couple of hundred cars were in the park's 9,000-car lot. And over the Labor Day weekend, 17,500 people visited the beach over two days, less than half the typical attendance of a weekend day.
While the low weekend turnout could be attributed in part to the closing of the beach last Saturday, after medical waste washed ashore, and the rundown condition of some of its buildings, it has become evident to park officials that theirs is a somewhat forgotten beach.
Despite a summer of searing heat and a recession that kept many people close to home, only about 660,000 people have visited the park so far this year. That is an increase of 200,000 over last year, but a far cry from the record of 3.9 million visitors set in 1983.
Park officials now hope that a promotional campaign touting the park as having clean waters and pristine white-sand beaches will help to change how New Yorkers view Riis Beach, as well as all the rest of the Gateway National Recreation Area, a sprawling network of beaches, wildlife refuges and ballfields extending from Sandy Hook, N.J., to southern Queens. The park is complete with World War II bunkers, historic buildings, a golf course and a pond filled with goldfish.
"People need to know that the water is great and that Riis is here," said Arthur Stewart, deputy superintendent of Gateway National Recreation Area. "In four or five years, the place will present a whole new image for Riis and Gateway."
Jacob Riis Park, unlike beach areas in New Jersey and on Long Island, has not overcome the image problem created in 1988 when medical waste washed up along the Atlantic shore. While tourists returned to the Jersey Shore and Long Island this summer, many stayed away from Riis Park.
 
Medical Waste Scare
 Park officials are not sure why people have stayed away, although the lack of direct public transportation and the condition of the grounds surrounding the beach are sometimes mentioned, as well as the medical waste scare three years ago.
Jacob Riis Park, which runs from Beach 149th Street to Beach 169th Street, is part of the 26,000-acre Gateway National Recreation Area and was established in 1972 as the system's first park in an urban area.
The park has its problems. Drug users as well as lovers congregate in the secluded areas in the wild bird sanctuary or the beach parking lot after dark. On the deserted runways at Floyd Bennett Field, teen-agers hold illegal drag races. On the Brooklyn side, Plum Beach is renowned as a beach for soliciting homosexuals. There are scores of sexual-offense arrests and in 1990 the bodies of 11 people killed elsewhere were found dumped in the park.
 
Redevelopment Opposition
 Nonetheless, the beach has its fans, many of whom say it is spotlessly clean. And they say a face lift of the park, which began this year, should bring about needed repairs to the boardwalk and several other buildings on its grounds. Attempts to rehabilitate the park were made in 1988, with a $55 million redevelopment proposal that would have added water rides and an amphitheater. But the effort failed because of vehement community opposition.
Next year, if they receive an additional $6 million, officials hope to begin restoring the park's historic 600-foot-long bathhouse and deserted airplane hangars. The park police have begun drug and crowd patrols, and Gateway has the only beaches in the New York area with horse patrols -- the biggest beach hit of the season for many children. "Everyone loves horses," said Tony Kang, one of the mounted officers. "They're great public relations and they're great to break up fights."
The beach's character has evolved over the years. Longtime visitors say its biggest claim to fame was the nudist section, which was closed in 1983.
"It was the 42d Street of nude beaches," said Sgt. Christopher Pappas of the Park Police. "It really used to be raunchy."
 
Pockets of People
 The beach has maintained self-segregating bays. Teen-agers from Bay ridge, Brooklyn, always gather in the western sector, adjacent to the family section. The central area comes alive with Jamaican and West Indian music on the weekends. The eastern-most sector is filled mostly with homosexuals. But overall there is a sense of family, visitors say.
"It would be much easier for me to go to Coney Island," said Janice Grosso, 26, as she lifted her 6-month-old son, Rickie Jr., onto the lap of a mounted police officer. "You always see the same people. It's very quiet and it's one of the cleanest beaches around."
But like elsewhere in the city as well as on other beaches, drugs have also infiltrated the park. Since 1976, the number of drug arrests at Jacob Riis Park has increased greatly, said Maj. Dale Dickerhoof of the park police.
Three weeks ago, an officer patrolling the parking lot arrested four people in a parked car as they were packaging 54 1/2 grams of cocaine to sell.
Officer Mike Lanfranchi, an undercover officer at the beach, said he and his partner, Scott Powers, average about 14 arrests in four days.
On the holiday, the beach was clean but nearly deserted, Major Dickerhoof said. There was even a touch of the wild. A whale that had taken a liking to the beach spouted off in the distance.
"Riis Park is our centerpiece, our showpiece," the major said. "It's a refuge. It's a haven -- a place where everyone mingles. Drugs are a problem that New York has like any other city. We just control our problems."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the end of a summer of low attendance, Gateway National Park officials have started a promotional campaign touting the assets of Jacob Riis Park beach in Far Rockaway, Queens. Anthony Kang, a park police officer, spoke with visitors as he patrolled a section of the beach on horseback; A young sunbather, Ashley Conner, enjoying the beach. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 26)
 
Map of Queens indicating Jacob Riis Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARK BEACH HOTEL (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JACOB RIIS PARK (QUEENS, NY); FAR ROCKAWAY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; GATEWAY NATIONAL RECREATION AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ADVERTISING BEACHES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); US LABOR DAY (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (66%); WEATHER (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); GOLF (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); WILDLIFE (50%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



181 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Money Gives an Unknown an Introduction

SERIES: Neighborhood Politics: Choosing the Council/An occasional look at the races for New York's new City Council.

BYLINE: JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Buses rumbling through the rundown streets of the Lower East Side have carried bright new advertisements in the last two weeks, urging people to elect Philip K. Howard, who until recently was well known only in a few corporate boardrooms and among the upper-crust civic-minded set who fought big developments uptown.
The bus advertisements are testament to the power of money to create a viable candidate out of a relative unknown in this year's City Council election, in which political strategists say they believe a few hundred votes could swing a race. 
 Mr. Howard, a corporate lawyer from Gramercy Park who said he decided in early July to run because he was disgusted with the city budget, has in short order become a candidate to be reckoned with, riding a flood of campaign contributions from lawyers and investment bankers who do not live in the neighborhood.
In the last four weeks, Mr. Howard has raised and spent more than $85,000, twice as much as any of his competitors, according to campaign finance documents filed last week. His list of contributors reads like a Who's Who of New York's corporate and legal world, including several close associates of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and even Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
Mr. Howard's impressive fund raising has skewed the race in District 2, a polyglot community which stretches from the luxurious apartment buildings of Gramercy Park and Murray Hill to the projects along the East River where working-class Hispanic people and Orthodox Jews live. In between is the bubbling caldron of intellectuals, artists, students, anarchists, mainstream liberals and leftists known collectively as the East Village.
 
Things Change
 Only a month ago, Councilwoman Miriam Friedlander, the 77-year-old die-hard leftist who has represented the neighborhood for 18 years, was believed to be facing her most serious challenge from Antonio Pagan, a moderate liberal with strong support from Hispanic voters, building owners and developers.
The other Democrat in the primary race, Hyman Dechter, a conservative criminal lawyer from the Jewish enclave on Grand Street, was considered a long shot.
That was before Mr. Howard, a 43-year-old product of Yale and the University of Virginia Law School, weighed in with a barrage of advertisements on radio and television and three mass mailings. Between Aug. 9 and Aug. 30, he raised $85,430. No other first-time candidate this year has come close to that level, and only a handful of incumbents could claim such large treasuries.
Political strategists say Mr. Howard's spending could seriously test the campaign finance program's ability to limit the influence of money in campaigns. Mr. Howard is not in the program, but Ms. Friedlander and Mr. Pagan are, which means under state law they are eligible to recieve $2 in public money for every dollar they raise.
"The question is, can someone buy an election?" asked Howard Hemsley, Mr. Pagan's campaign manager. "We're at a severe disadvantage."
Among Mr. Howard's contributors are John C. Whitehead, the former deputy secretary of state and co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, and Vincent Tese, the State Commissioner of Economic Development, who donated $5,600, Mr. Howard's largest contribution.
 
'You Have to Get the Message Out'
 "I'm trying to win, and I'm trying to overcome an incumbent's advantage," Mr. Howard said, adding he favors the campaign finance program but entered the race too late to enroll in it. "When you don't have political clubs and the party machinery, you have to get the message out to the voters."
Ms. Friedlander has the recognition that comes only after nearly two decades in office, where she has earned a reputation for taking unwavering liberal stands on rent control, the homeless and women's rights.
"My record is one of activism," she said. "Proportionally I get a very large amount of money for my district."
Although an eloquent naysayer and conscience prodder, Ms. Friedlander is not viewed by City Hall insiders as an adept legislator who can cut deals. Her critics in the community also assert that she has stacked the local community planning board with liberals who resist gentrification by developers and in the process stifle construction.
 
'She's Done Very Little'
 Ms. Friendlander has raised about $55,000 and spent more than $38,000, her campaign manager, Frieda Bradlow, said. She also received $26,253 in public money and stands to get another $13,000 from the Campaign Finance Board.
For Mr. Pagan, Mr. Howard's brimming campaign treasury is a larger threat. With some public financing, he has raised $54,000 and spent $39,000. Even the public matching money Mr. Pagan could receive might not be enough to offset Mr. Howard's advertising blitz, Mr. Pagan said.
Mr. Pagan, a 33-year-old lifetime resident of the neighborhood who heads a nonprofit organization that builds low-income housing, contends the best answer to the Lower East Side's problems is more housing for working- and middle-class people. He accuses Mr. Howard of having no record of service in the district's poor neighborhoods. And he accuses Ms. Friendlander of being an ineffective ideologue who has done little to help the small merchants and property owners whom he calls "the cloth of the society."
"For 18 years, she's done very little for this district," Mr. Pagan said. "All you have to do is walk down our streets. Look at the filth. Look at our buildings. We have vacant buildings, vacant lots. We're talking about effective leadership. Do we need 18 more years of rhetoric?"
 
Closing Tompkins Square Park
 No issue has crystalized the conflict between Mr. Pagan's supporters and Ms. Friedlander's more than the closing of Tompkins Square Park and the eviction of the homeless who lived there. Mr. Pagan spearheaded the efforts to close the park, with an eye toward returning it to the taxpaying residents who live nearby.
Ms. Friedlander called the closing "absolutely outrageous," and accused Mayor David N. Dinkins of pandering to voters while sweeping the ugly problem of homelessness into vacant lots two blocks away. She favors establishing a drop-in center where the homeless could be coaxed into drug rehabilitation and housing programs.
Mr. Howard is running on a broad promise to cut waste, overregulation and inefficiency in the city bureaucracy. Before running for the Council, his main public service came when he headed efforts as a pro bono lawyer to stop the original Columbus Circle and Tudor City Park developments.
"You have to bring government back to the neighborhood level, and in the process of doing it, you also have to cut out 40 years of red tape," he said.
 
A Tough Race to Call
 Mr. Howard's entry into the race has made the contest difficult to handicap. Although Ms. Friedlander is believed to be unbeatable in the left-leaning sections of the East Village, Mr. Howard is expected to do well in Gramercy Park and Murray Hill, an area Ms. Friedlander has never represented.
Mr. Howard could also hurt Mr. Pagan because Mr. Howard has the endorsement of City Council President Andrew J. Stein, who is popular among the 15,000 Orthodox Jews in the Grand Street housing projects. Mr. Pagan was expected to poll well in those projects because Assemblyman Sheldon Silver, a longtime foe of Ms. Friedlander, endorsed him. Mr. Stein's support could swing some Jewish votes to Mr. Howard.
Another unknown is who will win the support of the 14,870 Hispanic voters. Historically, Ms. Friedlander has overwhelmingly carried the Hispanic vote.
But political strategists say Mr. Pagan has managed to make peace among the various Spanish-speaking leaders, uniting them behind his campaign.
"It's a tossup," said one Hispanic strategist. "It's quite possible Pagan and Friedlander will capture their respective communities and this guy Howard could turn around and squeak in. No one community has a majority down there. Half of the district is new even for an incumbent."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The City Council Races: 2d District
 
THE CANDIDATES
 
Miriam Friedlander (D), 77 years old, veterna liberal Council member since 1974, graduate of New York University, chairwoman of the Council committe on women, believes biggest problem on Lower East Side is homelessness, strongly opposed closing of Tompkins Square park, favors increasing taxes on one- and two-family homes.
 
Philip K. Howard (D) 42, corporate lawyer, graduate of Yale and University of Virginia Law School, worked for Sullivan and Cromwell, the Wall Street firm, begore starting his own firm in 1983, worked pro bono to fight the orginal Columbus Circle and Tudor City Park developments, served on Community Board 6, was vice president of the Municipal Arts Society, treasurer of the industrial Development Agency of New York, opposes new taxes, wants to cut bureaucracy.
 
Antonio Pagan (D), 33, graduat e of University of Puerto Rico, masters from John Jay College of Criminal Justice, director of Coalition Housing Incorporated, a nonprofit group that Builds low- and moderate-income housing, member of Community Board 3, led fight to reform Third Street Men's Shelter to move the homeless out of Tompkins Square Park.
 
Hyman Dechter (D), 63, criminal lawyer, City College graduate, New York Law School, ran for Assembly in 1965 but lost, a politcal maverick whose base is in the predominantly Jewish Grand Street housing projects, wants to tighten welfare requriements.
 
FINGER IN THE WIND
 
Tough to call. Miram Friedlander is still the favorite because she is the incumbent, but much will depend on who can get his or her voters out in the greatest numbers, expecially if the turnout is low. (pg. 28)
 
Graphs show the breakdown of the population of the 2d District by ethnic groups for total population and for registered voters. (Source: City Districting Commission) (pg. 28)
 
Map of the 2d District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RELIGION (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGETS (71%); CITIES (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1991



182 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Jobless Rate Unchanged 
The unemployment rate stayed at 6.8 percent in August, with a second straight rise in factory payrolls countered by job shrinkage elsewhere, the Labor Department reported. Page 35.
 
The Two G.O.P.'s
 Reaction to a commercial supporting Clarence Thomas reflects a Republican fault line as the 1992 campaign nears. White House Memo, page 9.
 
Old Pro to Face Teen-Ager
 Martina Navratilova upset Steffi Graf, and Monica Seles beat Jennifer Capriati in the United States Open semifinals. SportsSaturday, page 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1991



183 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Data Mixed Last Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
The first broad-gauge assessment of the economy's performance in August showed no clear trend, with the unemployment rate remaining at 6.8 percent and a second straight rise in factory payrolls countered by job shrinkage elsewhere, Labor Department figures showed today.
 But while economists groped for meaning, bond traders pushed interest rates down and Democratic politicians seized the occasion to express doubts that recovery is under way and to assail the Bush Administration for barring payment of extended benefits for the long-term jobless. 
The report did little to change the views of either optimists or pessimists, said Robert Giordano, director of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company, adding, "It still leaves pretty unsettled the question of how long the recovery can go and how strong it can be."
 
Regional Variations
 While the national unemployment rate was unchanged, some areas recorded sizable moves. The rates in both New York and New Jersey posted increases of four-tenths of a percentage point, to 7.5 percent and 6.7 percent, respectively.
 Most private analysts say the recession ended in the spring but evidence of recovery has been spotty and the Federal Reserve felt impelled last month to make another round of interest-rate cuts to spur activity. Today's figures, though in some respects mildly encouraging about the recovery, were seen as likely to lead to further cuts in the next few weeks in the overnight lending rate among banks and in the Fed's discount rate.
 The most encouraging elements in today's report, said Janet L. Norwood, Commissioner of Labor Statistics, were a rise of 42,000 in factory jobs, which brought the two-month gain to nearly 70,000, and a 12-minute increase in the length of the factory workweek.
 Still, she said, the labor market last month "continued to lack clear direction" since construction, mining, wholesale trade and other sectors kept shedding jobs and the financial problems of state and local governments were starting to be reflected in shrunken payrolls.
 News that the unemployment rate did not fall last month -- in July there was a decline of two-tenths of a point -- brought immediate pledges from Democrats to try again to extend benefits for those who have exhausted them after six months.
 Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, said the August figures proved that "the Republican recession has created an economic emergency in America and it's time to do something about it."
 Senator James Sasser of Tennessee, head of the Budget Committee, said President Bush should not cite last year's budget agreement as a reason to oppose more than the usual 26 weeks of benefits since that act provided for emergency spending. He said the President had invoked the emergency provision to aid Kurds, Turks, Sudanese and Bangladeshis but not American workers.
 Last month Congress passed a $5.8 billion measure to provide 5 to 20 weeks of extra benefits. Mr. Bush signed the bill, saying he was doing so to show his sympathy for the jobless, but he refused to issue the necessary declaration of emergency for the money to be spent.
 Democrats also sought to score politically by asking four unemployed people to tell their stories today at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee where the chairman, Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, contended that the recession had "continued well into the summer."
 
A White House View
 At the White House, Michael J. Boskin, the President's top economic adviser, said that while the economy was not yet healthy it was improving and was unlikely to slip back into recession.
 Mr. Boskin also pointedly complained of widespread references to three million unemployed workers' having exhausted their benefits. He said he found "a little bit of chicanery" in the figure, contending it was exaggerated because more than half the three million had already returned to work and because many were unemployed because they had quit their jobs.
 The Labor Department report showed an overall increase of 34,000 in non-farm payrolls, about what was expected, with July's loss revised downward and June's loss revised upward by about the same amount. Goods-producing jobs rose 24,000, holding a big July gain in automobiles and adding sizable August increases in the auto-sensitive areas of fabricated metals and rubber and plastics.
 
Mixed Result in Services
 The modest gain of 10,000 in services benefited from another large rise, of 36,000, in health-service jobs and a renewed increase, 23,000, in business services. But this was more than offset by declines of 18,000 in wholesale trade, 15,000 in retail trade and 40,000 in state and local government.
 The department's survey of households, from which the unemployment rate is calculated, disclosed a further striking decline in the labor force, which fell 310,000, after a drop of 415,000 in July. The ranks of teen-age workers are shrinking, Commissioner Norwood said, while growth in the number of adult women in the work force has slowed sharply.
 The reduction in the overall work force nearly matched a 296,000 decline in jobs, as measured by the household survey, so the jobless rate did not budge from 6.8 percent, the same level as in March and two-tenths of a point below the 7 percent in June, which has been the recent peak.
 The jobless rate for adult women climbed to 5.7 percent, from 5.4 percent, last month, while the rate for adult men remained at 6.5 percent, the report showed. The rate for teen-agers dropped 1.6 points, more than wiping out a July surge.
 
Out of Work Longer
 The median duration of unemployment moved up to 7.2 weeks in August from 6.6 in July and 5.2 in August 1990.
 Among the 11 biggest states, 7 of which now have jobless rates above the national average, the biggest change was in Michigan, where unemployment climbed to 9.1 percent from 8.3 percent.
 By region, the jobless rate was 7.1 percent in the Northeast, 6.7 percent in the South, 6.3 percent in the West and 6 percent in the Midwest, with the Northeast shifting over the last year from the best of the four regions to the worst and the South moving from worst to second-best. Unlike the other data, the regional figures are not adjusted for seasonal variation.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Out of Work," tracks civilian unemployment, July 1990-August 1991 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 38)
Table: "The Labor Picture"
CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT
May: 116,591,000
June: 116,884,000
July: 116,712,000
August: 116,416,000
 
MILITARY EMPLOYMENT*
May: 1,458,000
June: 1,505,000
July: 1,604,000
August: 1,616,000
 
UNEMPLOYED
May: 8,640,000
June: 8,745,000
July: 8,501,000
August: 8,488,000
 
STATE JOBLESS RATES

 	 	 		Aug.	July	California	7.3%	7.6%	Florida	8.1	7.9	Illinois	7.2	6.7	Massachusetts	9.2	9.1	Michigan	9.1	8.3	New Jersey	6.7	6.3	New York	7.5	7.1	North Carolina	5.9	6.2	Ohio	6.8	6.9	Pennsylvania	7.3	7.0	Texas	6.5	6.7	*Military figures are for domestic land-based forces and do not fully reflect transfers to the Persian Gulf or the call-up of reservists.
All figures seasonally adjusted
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS
LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WORK WEEK (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1992



184 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 38; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:
SEVENTH HEAVEN, by Alice Hoffman. (Fawcett Crest, $5.99.) When a divorcee named Nora Silk moves with her two children to Long Island in 1959, she has such a disruptive effect on the suburban calm that it is rumored she is a witch. Alice Hoffman "has complete control over this bustling story, shuffling its many vignettes as cleverly as she captures the nuances of its many voices," Alida Becker said here last year.
SATURDAY NIGHT, by Susan Orlean. (Fawcett Crest, $5.99.) Cruising in a muscle car in Elkhart, Ind., watching the debutantes in a Hispanic neighborhood in Phoenix, dancing at Blob's Polka Park in Jessup, Md., hanging out with the waitresses at the Hilltop Steakhouse in Saugus, Mass., and with the homeless men at the Bowery Mission on New York's Lower East Side -- Susan Orlean dedicated herself to finding out what is so special about those hours of mandatory recreation called Saturday night. Last year our reviewer, Scott Simon, said the book is written "with much zest and considerable insight" by "a fine and engaging guide." 
 ONCE UPON A TIME ON THE BANKS, by Cathie Pelletier. (Washington Square/Pocket Books, $9.) Life in the sleepy town of Mattagash, Me., becomes less boring than usual when Amy Joy Lawler announces that she is marrying a French Catholic from the wrong side of the tracks. In 1989 our reviewer, Fannie Flagg, called this novel a "bawdy, poetic crazy quilt of a book."
FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS: A Town, a Team, and a Dream, by H. G. Bissinger. (Harper Perennial, $10.) Chronicling the 1988 season of the Permian High School Panthers in the football-obsessed town of Odessa, Tex., H. G. Bissinger found that the school spent $70,000 on chartered jets for the team's road games, $6,400 on rushed film prints of the games and $5,040 on teaching materials for the English department. Last year our reviewer, Michael Swindle, said the author "offers a biting indictment of the sports craziness that grips not only Odessa but most of American society, while at the same time providing a moving evocation of its powerful allure." In NO MEDALS FOR TRYING: A Week in the Life of a Pro Football Team (Ivy, $5.99), Jerry Izenberg goes behind the scenes as the New York Giants prepare for an important game with the Philadelphia Eagles. The book "gives us the feel of being on the Astroturf as 280-pound defensive ends bear down on us," Michael Lichtenstein said here last year. "Best of all, we don't have to worry about getting crunched."
MEDICINE RIVER, by Thomas King. (Penguin, $5.95.) Returning to a small town on the edge of the Blackfoot reservation for his mother's funeral, Will finds his niche as the town's first native photographer and joins an all-Indian basketball team. Last year our reviewer, Jack Butler, said this first novel is "economical, precise and elegant."
THE TRUE AND ONLY HEAVEN: Progress and Its Critics, by Christopher Lasch. (Norton, $14.95.) In a finite world, where perpetual improvement is impossible, the author argues, we should embrace the conservative values of progress's victims, the lower middle class. Earlier this year our reviewer, William Julius Wilson, said that "because of the sheer force of [Christopher Lasch's] critique . . . the book is required reading for any student of social criticism and cultural history."
UNDER SIEGE, by Stephen Coonts. (Pocket Books, $5.95.) When George Bush is wounded by a sniper, Dan Quayle takes over the fight to save the Government from Colombian drug lords. "Here is escape reading at its best," Newgate Callendar said here last year. Stephen Coonts "avoids the dreadful cliches of most of his colleagues. His dialogue is realistic, the story line mesmeric."
ROUGH JUSTICE, by David Heilbroner. (Dell, $4.99.) A former prosecutor says that his stint in the Manhattan District Attorney's office taught him that everybody lies, including police officers, witnesses and even victims. "Rough Justice" is "accurate, engaging and unsettling," Marcia Chambers said here last year.
THE FIREMAN'S WIFE: And Other Stories, by Richard Bausch. (Norton, $8.95.) In one of these short stories, a woman who is tired of being married to a firefighter learns that he has been injured in a disaster. Last year our reviewer, Bette Pesetsky, said that while this collection "serves us ample helpings of modern angst," it "also shows us how we manage to go on living. And in this it rewards us richly."
WIDOW'S JOURNEY: A Return to the Loving Self, by Xenia Rose. (Owl/Holt, $9.95.) After the cellist Leonard Rose died, his wife, a psychotherapist, struggled to get to the point where she could listen to music without crying. In describing her ordeal, "she is sharp as a novelist," Judith Moore said here last year.
THE GIFT HORSE'S MOUTH, by Robert Campbell. (Pocket Books, $4.95.) The precinct captain Jimmy Flannery is recruited by the Chicago political machine to find out who killed Goldie Hanrahan, a party secretary who may have been privy to damaging political secrets. The novel is "sentimental and funny, raucous and sad," Marilyn Stasio said here last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Orlean (Jerry Bauer/Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); INDIANA, USA (57%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); INDIANA, USA (57%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); SPORTS (88%); WRITERS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (72%); LITERATURE (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); QUILTS & QUILTING (66%); HOMELESSNESS (54%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



185 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4406 words

HEADLINE: Maestro of the Moment

BYLINE: By John Rockwell; John Rockwell is a music critic for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THERE WERE TIMES THESE PAST MONTHS when Kurt Masur, the new music director of the New York Philharmonic, seemed to be all over town -- poking into every byway of New York's musical life and working rooms like the politician he almost became.
One evening, he was in tiny Weill Recital Hall for a violin recital, the next at the Metropolitan Opera for "Salome" or at the Carnegie Hall centennial gala or seeing "Les Miserables" with his wife and son. During the day, he met with Philharmonic musicians, staff and board members or darted about the area in search of concert sites and a home. His jacket slung over his shoulder, his barrel chest incongruously topped by one of his collection of Western-style string ties, he looked the very picture of slightly touristy, heartily undaunted self-confidence. 
 He did seem confident, but he also rather sweetly confessed to past apprehensions. "All this activity is just keeping me busy -- it's not making me nervous," he says cheerfully. "I used to feel the danger of the city, but now I sense its energy, its excitement. Older friends felt at home here, and gradually I began to feel I could function in New York, too. If you have nothing to hide, there's no need to fear."
But if Masur feels optimistic about his formal debut as the Philharmonic's music director this Wednesday evening -- a concert that will be nationally televised as part of the "Live From Lincoln Center" series -- how will New Yorkers respond to him? When the Philharmonic chose him to succeed Zubin Mehta in April 1990, the news came as a surprise to almost everyone. The music director of the tradition-laden Gewandhaus Orchestra in Leipzig, Masur had built his entire career in East Germany, a literally walled-off enclave far from the tumult of the international music business. When one thought of him at all, it was as an exemplar of that lovely old German word Kapellmeister -- literally, master of the chapel; figuratively, a workaday conductorial craftsman.
With his appointment, however, and with the rapid collapse of East Germany, we began to hear more about Masur. Aside from bearing an amusing resemblance to Brahms (when he lets his hair and whiskers grow wild), he had slowly built an international career while remaining true to the city of Bach and Mendelssohn. He had also played a leading role in the liberalization movement of 1989 that defused potential confrontations as the old East Germany collapsed. He became so potent a symbol that he was seriously considered for the largely ceremonial post of East German President in that country's final months.
Philharmonic players championed Masur's appointment. They hope he will lend a new gravity to the orchestra's playing of the classics. But it is also possible that his musicianship, nurtured in the hothouse atmosphere of Leipzig, will pale in the glaring world of music as big business, tarnishing his wise and insightful image into the unimaginatively routine.
Leipzig's musical life offers tantalizing hints of what Philharmonic musicians and audiences may expect. Masur himself seems convinced that what worked in Germany will translate to the New World, and that his style and values, shaped by centuries of German tradition and his Leipzig roots, will survive under New York scrutiny. "I can't change," he says. "I am what I am, and you will get what I am as honestly as I can bring it."
THE COMMERCIAL center of the German state of Saxony, Leipzig was heavily bombed during World War II and then rapidly rebuilt into a grim, dingy epitome of Communist underachievement. Among the landmarks destroyed in 1944 was the city's beloved concert hall, named the Gewandhaus after a predecessor's original function as a fabric merchants' exchange hall.
The city's musical tradition is particularly rich. For centuries, the Thomaskirche, or St. Thomas Church, which still stands, was the center of municipal music life, and Bach was its music director. The Gewandhaus Orchestra, one of the oldest and finest in Germany, dates to 1743. Unlike in most German cities, the orchestra, not the opera, is the center of Leipzig's musical life, with Gewandhaus musicians (there are now some 200 of them) also playing for the opera company and Thomaskirche concerts. Mendelssohn was the orchestra's conductor from 1835 to 1847, and like most Gewandhaus Kapellmeisters, he took an active role in all aspects of the city's cultural life. His successors included Arthur Nikisch, Wilhelm Furtwangler and Bruno Walter, and Schumann and Brahms had close ties with the orchestra as well.
Today, proudly flanking the south side of a big open square called the Augustus Platz (until recently, Karl-Marx-Platz), stands the new Gewandhaus. Opened in 1981, it is a prime symbol of the arts in the midst of a city that has suffered through decades of East Bloc privation and two years of economic and psychological travail. Its irregularly shaped interior, with sharply rising tiers of seats cupping the orchestra protectively, crowned by an imposing, 6,638-pipe organ, has made it the modern center of the city. (Masur would like to install an organ almost as large in Avery Fisher Hall, for both musical and acoustical reasons.)
Looming over the Gewandhaus and this entire city of 600,000 inhabitants -- and, one might plausibly argue, over eastern Germany itself -- is the ruddy-complexioned, stockily built, 6-foot-3-inch Kurt Masur. Gewandhaus Kapellmeister since 1970, he rules his orchestra and the city's music and, indeed, his region's inner self-esteem in grandly sovereign fashion, for all his truly sincere espousal of democracy both within the Gewandhaus and in the country at large. As he walks through the streets of Leipzig, Masur is greeted with genuine affection, moderated by awed respect, by everyone from orchestra members to good burghers to tourists to working people to punks. "He was the one who built this oasis in the midst of this dirt and chaos," says Roderick MacDonald, a principal trumpet player and the only American currently in the orchestra.
The political and economic isolation of East Bloc countries preserved prewar conditions long since eroded in the West. Culture in East Germany, despite insistently progressive propaganda from on high, was an almost quaint haven of bourgeois idealist values. The Gewandhaus Orchestra's special character, with its dark string tone, plangent winds and old-fashioned instrument design (rotary trumpets, for instance), was reinforced by the inability of Gewandhaus players to gravitate freely to other orchestras and the unwillingness of most Westerners to play in Leipzig. Within the city itself, the Gewandhaus was a haven for musicians and audiences alike. Masur designed it that way, with spacious foyers and a big, comfortable cafeteria. "For us, it was a home here before 1989," recalls MacDonald with a twinge of nostalgia.
Watching a Gewandhaus rehearsal within the hall's gleaming confines -- a hall planned to the tiniest detail by Kurt Masur, although one suspects he graciously allowed the architects and acousticians a say -- gives only a hint of Masur's authority. The rehearsals proceed with the relaxed collegiality that can only come from long and friendly association. Masur is open-shirted and informal, sweeping the orchestra along without a baton in big, choppy, bearlike gestures, encouraging comment from the players yet maintaining genial, firm discipline.
Backstage, the true power structure of the place becomes manifest. One passes into Masur's inner chambers through a waiting room transformed into a sort of Japanese shrine; his wife, Tomoko Sakurai, is Japanese. The office itself, flanked by his deferential secretary's quarters, is spacious and grand, adorned with personal and Gewandhaus memorabilia. The Gewandhaus hierarchy seems strikingly simple. There is no chief administrative officer; Masur does that, too. With fax and telephone -- the conductor's radio phone is the only sure way to make contact with the outer world, given the continued vagaries of the telephone system in eastern Germany -- Masur is in constant contact with home base. "Masur has his hand in almost everything here," MacDonald says. "It's a good example of an old-style Kapellmeister. He has to pass on the hiring of everyone, from orchestra players to coat-check people. Everything has to go through him, but he does make time for it."
Certainly he seems admired, even beloved, by his musicians. "Masur is so strong a personality that he influences every musical institution in the city," says Hartmut Brauer, the head of the orchestra's elected governing committee. "The orchestra and he are more close now than ever. We need him as a musician and as a force in the city." Masur, for his part, is particularly proud that despite severe economic privations no member of his ensemble has yet fled to the West for higher wages.
The orchestra that he has rebuilt over the last two decades is a fascinating study in idiomatic provinciality opening up toward international-style excellence. In the United States, auditions are "blind" to minimize favoritism (or racism). In Leipzig, they are right out in the open, and favoritism is just another word for tradition. With 85 percent of its members graduates of the Leipzig Conservatory, with sons and students of present and former players rife within its ranks ("One could see it as nepotism, but it isn't," says Hans Jung, a member of the orchestra committee), the Gewandhaus lacks, quite completely, the aggressive brilliance that defines a top Western orchestra like the New York Philharmonic. "We don't like to take outsiders, especially strings," Masur explains. "We have our own style."
The Gewandhaus's spacious, soft acoustics reinforce the relaxed musical image. A performance of Ravel's flashy "La Valse" as part of a concert to open the annual Leipzig Fair hardly challenged the gleaming authority of, say, the Boston Symphony under Charles Munch. But Beethoven's "Pastoral" Symphony proved satisfying in ways that probed beneath merely note-perfect execution. In music close to the Leipzig tradition, which just happens to be the music at the center of the Western concert repertory -- Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schumann, Mendelssohn, Brahms, Bruckner -- this ensemble sings with a naturalness that provides deep musical rewards.
THAT SONIC IMAGE IS A mirror of Masur's own musical preferences. When asked who had most influenced him, Masur instantly cited Bruno Walter. Walter was a Gewandhaus predecessor. But he was also (more in his American old age than in his European youth) a gentle lyricist seemingly removed from Masur's sterner directness. "I felt especially close to Walter after I read his autobiography, to his entire image as a man and artist," Masur says. "Toscanini fascinated me, but his was not my style. And of course Furtwangler, because of his ability to define structure and his emotional power, although he was bound to his time; we couldn't play that Romantically today."
Even if he isn't absolutely convincing with every composer he tries, that may be an unrealistic expectation. As Renee Siebert, a Philharmonic flutist for 17 years and chairwoman of its main elected committee, puts it: "Conductors are treated unfairly in terms of repertoire. Unlike everybody else, they're expected to master everything. If they're smart, they stick with what they're good at, and get others to do the rest."
Says Masur: "I've tried to concentrate on the composers who were meaningful to the Gewandhaus tradition. We've played that music a lot; I've maybe conducted Beethoven's Third, Fifth and Seventh Symphonies two or three hundred times each. I get involved every time, with new elements and nuances, finding new things to do with a particular orchestra. The basic conception remains the same."
For Masur, variety can rejuvenate routine: "People ask, 'Aren't you bored after 21 years with one orchestra?' But I bring fresh ideas from the other orchestras. If the players in Leipzig complain that a passage can't be played as fast as I want it, I can say, 'I just heard it played that fast in Chicago.' In Leipzig, we can't play as perfectly as in Chicago. But sometimes we can play more beautifully.
"When I was in Dresden, I did lots of Mozart. My personal position to Mozart has always been to play him spiritually, rather than esthetically. I think the early-music movement is important, but one thing is dangerous, that we only play older music on original instruments. That's the big problem with so-called purism. We have an original-instruments group in the Gewandhaus, but we also have a long Bach tradition. The Romanticization of Bach is less dangerous than his objectification."
Masur has shied away from opera in recent decades. He says his experience as chief conductor of the Komische Oper in East Berlin in the 1960's, under the director Walter Felsenstein, soured him on the vagaries of conventional opera, with its star singers and limited rehearsals. But he does conduct a wide range of music, including contemporary music. "I feel the obligation to master as many styles as possible, in the spirit of the composer in his time," he says.
"For example, Tchaikovsky has a different meaning in Leningrad than elsewhere; he's not just salon music. In my journeys, I try to observe how the music is played in different places, to achieve security of style," he adds, citing the late Russian conductor Yevgeny Mravinsky's way with Tchaikovsky. "I pride myself that I have no particular style of conducting, and I make sure my students don't imitate me."
In 20th-century music, Masur has championed Eastern European composers, from Janacek to Prokofiev, Shostakovich and Alfred Schnittke. His favorite East German composer has been Siegfried Matthus, whose dramatic gifts and orchestral ingenuity don't disguise a fealty to mainstream classical tradition. Yet the conductor's tastes may be friskier than that. For his first Philharmonic concerts this week, he has included two pieces by the American avant-gardist John Adams, along with Aaron Copland and Bruckner's Seventh Symphony.
"His reaction to the hundred or so American pieces we showed him was really interesting," says Jon Deak, the Philharmonic's associate principal double-bassist, head of its artistic advisory committee and himself an experimental composer. "First of all, he reads scores like comic books, which is very refreshing. He said a lot of the music showed a certain grayness and safeness. He really liked the guys who are taking chances."
MASUR IS NOW 64 years old. His entire career was fostered by the old East German regime, from postwar studies in Leipzig (he spent the last months of the war as a 17-year-old draftee in Holland) to engagements in Breslau, Leipzig, Dresden, Schwerin, East Berlin, Dresden again and then to the Gewandhaus. In Leipzig, he managed to cajole local officials and the Erich Honecker regime in East Berlin to underwrite his new concert hall, and he always traveled freely.
As a backlash against his post-1989 democratic prestige, there were hints that his liberalization was an opportunistic sham, and that like the former secret-police officials and Party functionaries who share his comfortable, leafy Leipzig residential neighborhood, he was somehow compromised. Those charges rose up in ugly fashion with recent tabloid insinuations that his culpability in a 1972 auto accident had been covered up by the Communists. He has always admitted responsibility for the crash, on the Autobahn between Berlin and Leipzig, which killed not only two young men in an oncoming car but also his second wife and left him temporarily paralyzed and traumatized. "For me, it was more a spiritual crisis than a physical one," he says. "I stopped conducting for months. Finally, the orchestra urged me to attempt Bach's Mass in B Minor. I started using only two fingers to conduct, but then it was all right."
Clearly he was a prized cultural export item for the Communists, and clearly his ability to combine idealism with practicality served him well. But no one has suggested damaging complicity on his part before 1989. He took real chances in the 1970's, championing a dissident Soviet composer like Schnittke. His role as a leader in the East German democratization movement is indisputable. At considerable risk, he spoke out early and forcefully against police suppression of demonstrators. He invited figures from all walks of Leipzig life to participate in open forums at the Gewandhaus -- the main demonstrations were taking place just outside, on Karl-Marx-Platz -- which defused potentially violent confrontations and eased the way toward reform.
Friedrich Magirius, a Lutheran pastor who was a leader of the democratization movement and who now serves as the second-highest municipal official, the city president, is a staunch Masur admirer. "Some people complain that he dealt with the old powers," Magirius concedes. "But of course he had to -- we all did."
The possibility that he might have become President of East Germany in its last months was real. "The orchestra asked him not to do it," says Brauer, the orchestra committee head. "I believe he accomplished more as Kapellmeister than he could have as President. He would have been a politician against his will." Masur refused to join a political party, calculating that his influence might be undermined by affiliation with any interest group. He makes light of those who still think of him as a potential political figure. "A politician who conducts Beethoven isn't believable," he says with a laugh.
Even today, though, Masur serves as an advocate of former East Germans against the injustices of unification, protesting widespread unemployment, too-rapid privatization and the abolition of cultural and scholarly institutions by competitors in western Germany. "You can't impose bureaucratic rules on a sick land," he argues. "There are legal rights and there are moral rights. Our fear is not that we will lose our musicians, but that the public won't have enough money to buy tickets." (At a Gewandhaus subscribers' forum, one concertgoer pointed out that a ticket still cost the equivalent of four beers, and figured that was a pretty good deal.)
His harrowing experiences in 1989 may not have altered his musical style significantly, but they did reinforce his self-confidence as an artist. "It made me stronger," he says. "It taught me to overcome fear. People saw more clearly what kind of artist I was. There are stars who are only interested in the gifts of their art, but not connected to the people. The events of 1989 brought us in the Gewandhaus closer to our public."
His political prominence may have tipped the balance in his favor during the Philharmonic's search for a music director. Dawn Riggs, then chairwoman of the main Philharmonic players' committee, spoke at the time of his "unimpeachable moral and musical integrity." "Music," Masur reiterates earnestly and often, "must be more than entertainment for two hours in an evening." It is an idealistic attitude that echoes the motto of the Gewandhaus, emblazoned above the stage in a Latin phrase from Seneca that translates: "To provide true joy is a serious business."
Masur has a stern side, an abrupt temper that can cow employees and awaken stereotypes of tyrannical Teutonism. Some Philharmonic players were nervous that he might "come in here like some commandant," as Deak puts it, although any temperament he has shown so far has been rationalized as a byproduct of his passion for excellence.
But there is a playfulness, too, as in a favorite stunt in which he stops up a gently spouting fountain in a Gewandhaus courtyard until it explodes with pent-up pressure. When he says things like "I don't want to be called a 'wonder' -- the wonder is the music," you believe him. "He takes the music and us very seriously," Deak says. "It's not a showcase for him, not just another stop for his bio, and we respond to that."
Masur's self-image is perhaps best summed up in a story he told late one afternoon at his Leipzig home: "I once heard a lousy performance of 'Eine Kleine Nachtmusik' in Tashkent. I asked the conductor, 'How could you tolerate that?' He said, 'You people from Western Europe think you're better. I was born here and I live here. In 1,000, years this orchestra will play it better, but I'm proud that I've been able to improve them a couple of millimeters.' I felt ashamed, and learned a great lesson from that."
THOUGH MASUR HAS A DRIVER and a security gate and a swimming pool with a removable cover for year-round usage, all of which sets him far above the average Leipziger, his home seems positively middle class by American standards. Orchestras closely guardsuch figures, but it is safe to assume that Masur will easily earn more than $1 million this season, from all sources. Certainly, the new home he is seeking -- mostly likely in or near Rye, N.Y., the site of a good German-language school for his 14-year-old son, Ken David -- will be far grander than this.
Still, it's comfortable and private; when the leaves fill out the trees, he says conspiratorially, one can swim in the nude. Aside from Ken David, the product of his marriage with Sakurai, a now 41-year-old violist and soprano, there is a daughter from his second marriage, Carolin, 24, a mezzo-soprano who lives and studies in Berlin, and three older offspring from his first marriage, which ended in divorce. There is also a big, bouncing dog named Caesar, who with all due respect to his human family seems to be Masur's favorite. Everyone seems genuinely to like one another; it's an affectionate house.
Ken David, who attended a Japanese school near London last year, is a sweet and modest boy who plays chamber music with his family. Masur can still negotiate his way around a keyboard with a dapper touch, despite a crippled right hand dating from his teens. The crippling was caused by an inoperable tendon condition and is what made him switch to conducting in the first place. With his imposing, hearty manner, Masur seems in vibrant good health, though he had an angina scare last year, diagnosed as brought on by stress from all his political and musical overachieving. He says now that his heart is firmly under control.
The Masur-Sakurai marriage appears to be a true love match. It must have been, in order to persuade a 24-year-old Japanese woman playing in a Rio de Janeiro orchestra to abandon that glittering metropolis in favor of grim, oppressive Leipzig and a man 23 years her senior. She calls him "Elephant" as an endearment, and his favored clasp for the string ties he has worn since their marriage is a carved wooden elephant, a gift from her.
IT WOULD BE SILLY TO portray Masur as some innocent provincial. He has conducted the great orchestras of the world; he knows how the music business works; he has been impressively successful in winning corporate support for his beleaguered Gewandhaus, raising orchestra wages from a mere one-quarter to nearly two-thirds those of a comparable West German orchestra like the Munich Philharmonic. An this despite uttering gloomy complaints that "marketing seems to rule the world."
He will be aided in his foray into New York by the fact that German conductors are enjoying a new cachet in the United States. There seems to be a fresh yearning for the orchestral discipline and mainstream authority, undistracted by flashy virtuosity or trendy accretions from early music or modernist composition.
"His first concert with us after his appointment was Mendelssohn's 'Elijah' last December," recalls Siebert, the Philharmonic flutist. "The rehearsals were very inspirational. He thoroughly knew the piece, the text, the spiritual meanings behind every word and how the music related to those meanings. It was wonderful."
In the "Elijah" performances, Masur was substituting for Leonard Bernstein. "Those 'Elijahs' were very sentimental," Deak says. "I myself have played 'Elijah' up to here. Masur stopped the first rehearsal after the first couple of pages and said -- I can't quote him exactly -- that there is the god of love and the god of fear and we weren't taking the difference seriously enough. Within 10 minutes, everyone was giving it their all. It was a big experience; it's why we become musicians. Lenny would have loved it."
In his plans for New York, Masur wants to import some of the ideas he has espoused in Leipzig. "He's used the word 'partnership' a lot with us," Siebert said. His programming agenda includes a series that offers comprehensive looks at a composer's work in chronological order or in historical context. In Leipzig, for instance, there were concerts combining Beethoven piano concertoswith Bruckner symphonies, and others with symphonies by Shostakovich and Beethoven.
Masur is also a great believer in the cultivation of youth. This means conducting conservatory orchestras wherever he goes, forging alliances that can infuse a city's professional orchestra. It also means active involvement in young people's concerts. For him, a cultural tradition is not something simply inherited. "The tradition was lost in Leipzig, too, after the war," he says. "It had to be rebuilt, step by step."
When his New York appointment was announced, he left vague his intentions about Leipzig, other than to say he would stay there through its 250th season in 1992-3. Now he's reinforced his commitment to both cities. After some juggling, he assumed the music directorship in New York a year earlier than the originally announced 1992-3 season. But he also agreed to stay on in Leipzig indefinitely. The reason is that he was concerned about the morale of the Gewandhaus Orchestra and of Leipzig itself, and felt that their casual abandonment would be unconscionable. "We're thankful that he's here and for all that he's accomplished," says Magirius, the city president. "It's very, very important that he stays."
Masur says now that he will cut down guest engagements and reside in both New York and Leipzig for more than five months each, sinking his roots as deeply into New York's musical life as he has already done in Leipzig. "There will be no problem," he contended at a New York news conference a few months ago. "It's like a marriage and a lover." He didn't say which was which.

GRAPHIC: Cover photo: Kurt Masur. (Photograph by Anthony Barboza for The New York Times)
 
Photos: For most of his career, Masur has been walled off from the tumult of the international music business. Above, he conducts a rehearsal of the Gewandhaus Orchestra in Leipzig. (pg. 26); Right, inside the orchestra's home, a concert hall that Mazur planned to the tiniest detail. (pg. 27); By traditional East German standards, Masur has enjoyed a comfortable life style in Leipzig. Above left, he plays with his dog, Caesar. (pg. 28); Above, at the piano with his wife, Tomoko, and their 14-year-old son, Ken David. (pg. 29)(Photographs by Herlinde KOelbl for The New York Times); Mazur leads an early forum on East German democratization at the Gewandhaus in October 1989. (Photograph from The Gewandhaus Orchestra)(pg. 38); Kurt Masur conducting the New York Philharmonic on Long Island this July. (Photograph by Tomas Muscionico/Contact for The New York Times)(pg. 68)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LEIPZIG, GERMANY (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; GEWANDHAUS ORCHESTRA CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; GEWANDHAUS ORCHESTRA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; LEIPZIG (GERMANY) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LEIPZIG, GERMANY (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ORCHESTRAS AND OTHER MUSIC GROUPS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); OPERA (72%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN KURT MASUR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



186 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



187 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Recession Spurs Connecticut Tax Sales

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AT 10 A.M. on Aug. 22, Virgilio's, a defunct restaurant on Highland Avenue, was auctioned by the Town of Cheshire to satisfy a delinquent tax bill of $45,900. About 15 people showed up on the steps of Town Hall, but no one bid.
So the town has, in essence, bought the property for back taxes, but it cannot take title for a year. In that time, the owner, a consortium of Bridgeport businessmen called Coastal Associates, or the mortgage lender, may redeem it by paying the taxes plus 1 1/2 percent interest a month, or 18 percent a year, mandated by state law. 
 "I thought the bank would be there bidding, but they didn't come," said Michael A. Milone, the town's Finance Director. Connecticut National Bank carries a first mortgage of $250,000 on the property and Frank and Margaret Calabro, original owners of the restaurant, hold a second mortgage of $350,000. Don Holley, Cheshire's tax collector, said the property is assessed at $875,000, "but the market value has probably dropped from $1.2 million in 1988 to around $700,000."
Connecticut National Bank stayed away, according to Drayton Heard, senior vice president in Hartford, because "I don't think the sale was a good market test of the value of the property."
The bank has scheduled a foreclosure sale for Nov. 2, he said. "People who are accustomed to buying in this manner will come, and there should be many more active bidders," he said.
In a tax-sale auction, the successful bidder undertakes to pay the taxes but does not acquire title for a year. If the owner chooses to end his delinquency, he will owe the successful bidder, the buyer in waiting, 18 percent interest on the taxes that the bidder has been paying.
The town's goal is to get the taxes paid up, but the process has the effect of putting pressure on owners or their mortgage lenders, who may be planning foreclosure procedures or already started them, to pay up sooner.
"So many towns are doing these auctions that we have been holding classes on tax sales, foreclosures and bankruptcies," said Patricia Moisio, tax collector in Redding and president of the Connecticut Tax Collectors Association. "This will be the first time that I have held a tax sale in the 12 years I've had my job. It's becoming routine after efforts to collect or make payment arrangements have been exhausted."
If the bank holds a successful auction on the Cheshire property, the town expects all back taxes to be paid when title transfers.
Among the buyers attracted to a recent tax-sale auction in the town of Guiford were Sharon Silvestrini and Diane Robinson, owners of the Evergreen Galleries. On April 26 they paid $8,495 for a new house at 181 East River Road auctioned by the Guilford tax collector. The builder, William Bailey, marketed it at $350,000 but never sold it. He has until April 1992 to reclaim it.
"It's a great investment," Ms. Robinson said. "Where else can we get 18 percent on our money, or if he doesn't pay up, a house for $8,495?"
BARBARA KOHLS, Guilford's tax collector, started out with 34 properties for the April sale. Most of them paid up before the deadline, seven were auctioned and seven were withdrawn because of bankruptcies. Six properties belonging to Thomas Doyle, a local developer who declared bankruptcy, included raw land, a commercial building and a house. Another bankruptcy, filed by Gorbach Properties of New Haven, a lien holder rather than an owner, was filed the day before the sale.
"I didn't realize that a lien holder can put a property out of reach by declaring bankruptcy to protect his interest in it," Ms. Kohls said.
As the recession deepened, preparations for tax sales became more complex and time consuming. Title searches are necessary so that each lien holder can be notified. The county sheriff and the property owners must be notified, and newspaper notices are required for three consecutive weeks, with the sale scheduled within 10 weeks of the first notice.
"It's a lot less trouble to wait for the banks,' Ms. Kohls admits, "but I feel the town needs the money now."
Three condominium units were sold for $15,000, $22,000 and $26,000. If the high bidder paid more than the amount of the tax bill, the excess was placed in escrow for a year, after which it will be turned over to the taxpayer or lien holder.
A three-quarter-acre parcel of marshland on Long Island Sound was bought by the Guilford Land Conservation Trust for $1,500, and 9,500 square feet of a commercial condominium building on the Post Road went for $6,500. The remaining unit of 3,100 square feet is owned by a 1989 buyer who paid $250,000 for it.
Larger cities seem to prefer turning over negotiations and foreclosure sales to lawyers, as opposed to having municipal tax sales. "Their lists of delinquent properties are much longer, the buildings are larger, more complex, they can involve abandonments and long hours of research that tax collectors are not equipped to handle," said Ms. Moisio, the Redding tax collector.
THE firm of Salvin and Salvin in Wilton limits its practice to tax delinquencies and handles the work for the City of Norwalk. "The number of cases has increased tremendously in the past three years," said Arthur Salvin. "People just plain don't have the money. Businesses are not doing business, and it's almost impossible to get a loan. The chief problem this year has been builders who own several pieces of property of high value that they are not able to sell or finance."
Lawyers' fees, set by the court, can vary from a high of 10 percent of the outstanding amount to as little as 0.5 percent, plus court costs consisting of a $125 filing fee and sheriff's fees for serving defendants, but averaging around $75.
"Sometimes the amount owed is in the hundreds of thousands of dollars," said Mr. Salvin, "in which case a 10 percent fee would be unconscionable."
Waterbury uses its City Attorney, George Tzepos. "We have 175 foreclosures pending in court," he said. "We prefer foreclosure sales to tax sales because they are definite. They do not tie up property for a year."
"However," he added, "we are exploring going back to tax sales with a strategy I don't wish to disclose at present."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Property marketed at $350,000 on East River Road in Guilford, Conn., sold for $8,495 at a tax-sale auction. (Steve Castagneto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (56%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (56%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (56%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (56%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAXATION; SALES; AUCTIONS; PROPERTY TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); SECOND MORTGAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



188 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By Eleanor Charles

 BODY:

QUILTS AND SPREADS
More than 400 quilts, from antique to contemporary and from all over the country, will be exhibited for sale at prices ranging from $75 to $2,000 at the Stamford Historical Society's giant Quilt Show, on Friday from noon to 6 P.M. and Saturday and Sunday from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. 
 The Stamford 350th anniversary commemorative quilt, made over a two-year period by the society's volunteers, will be on display. After presentation to the city's Mayor last May, it was shown at various corporate headquarters downtown before returning to the Historical Society, its permanent home. Measuring 8 by 12feet, it contains 30 squares depicting the city's history. Among them are a Post Road mail carrier of the 1680's, the 1705 Knapp House that still stands on Stillwater Road, the original railroad station, the First Presbyterian Church (dubbed Fish Church because of its shape), and the contemporary skyline with the G.T.E. Building, General Reinsurance and Landmark Buildings.
Quilt tops and spreads, food, trompe l'oeil painted furniture, collectibles and anniversary quilt notecards will also be for sale.
The Historical Society is at 1508 High Ridge Road and admission is free. The phone number is 322-1565.
 
POLISH CULTURE
 Central Connecticut State University in New Britain will be steeped in Polish culture through Oct. 20, while a Polish Arts Celebration continues, open to the public without charge.
An exhibit called "Voices from Krakow: Contemporary Prints from Poland" consists of aquatints, plaster prints, woodcuts, linocuts, etchings and lithographs by artists associated with the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow. A companion exhibition, "Touched by Angels: Polish Folk Art," includes carvings, reverse-glass paintings, Christmas creches and paper cutouts.
Both exhibits may be seen in the Samuel S. T. Chen Art Center at Stanley and Wells Streets on the campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 1 to 4 P.M. and Sunday from 2 to 5 P.M. Gallery talks by university faculty members will be given at 2:30 P.M. on Sept. 22 and at 7:30 P.M. on Sept. 26.
On Sept. 21 two Polish film classics will be screened in Welte Hall. "Ashes and Diamonds," an Andrzej Wajda film about a resistance fighter in World War II who assassinates the wrong man, will be shown at 7 P.M., followed at 9 by the Roman Polanski film "Knife in the Water," which deals with intense relationships among three people on a yacht. Free tickets may be reserved by calling 827- 7322.
"A New Vision for Peace and Justice in the 1990's" is the subject of a lecture to be delivered by the Rev. William Sloane Coffin at 8 P.M. on Sept. 28 in the Student Center Ballroom. More information is available by calling 827-7000.
 
MEN AND WOMEN
 Men and women are invited to a free session of the Men's Counseling Centers to be held in Westport on Friday from 7:30 to 9:30 P.M. at the Public Library, Bernhard Plaza. The topic will be "What Men Really Want and Need, and Their Difficulty Getting It From Women." Dr. Robert Helfand and Dr. Louis Kopolow, directors of the counseling centers, will lead the discussion. They said their purpose is to define "deep masculinity" and to foster the growth of a men's movement as a positive and compassionate response to the women's movement.
The organization will also sponsor a wilderness adventure for men on Sept. 21 and 22 at Camp Pomperaug in Union. The fee will be $135. For more information call 748-3241.
 
KITCHENS IN HISTORY
 Eating your way through eight kitchens dating from 1690 to 1990 in Moodus, East Haddam and Hadlyme will be the order of the day on Saturday from 10 A.M. to 3:30 P.M., when the East Haddam Historical Society has scheduled its Cook's Tour fund-raising event. Tickets, $12 each, may be picked up on Saturday, along with self-guiding maps, at the Amasa Day House on Moodus Green, or ordered in advance for $10 by calling 873-8144.
Homeowners will be on hand at each house, providing recipes and tastings of their specialties, ranging from 1800's Connecticut Western Reserve breakfast gingerbread to baked beans to salsa and tortilla chips.
The 1690's house actually has three kitchens: the original, a lean-to built when the house was a tavern and a new one installed in 1989. A 19th-century country kitchen typically has a fireplace for cooking, beehive oven and tin roasting oven. A wood-burning stove is still in use for cooking in a 200-year-old farmhouse, and the latest word in cooking may be inspected in a brand-new all-digital kitchen.
 
ABOUT WRITING
 Alfred Kazin, the critic, writer and teacher, will give a talk titled "An Old Man Mad About Writing" at 5 P.M. today in the Roxbury Congregational Church on Route 317.
The free informal lecture will focus on Mr. Kazin's more than 50 years as a writer, reader and reviewer for The New Republic, The New York Times, The New York Herald Tribune and Scribner's magazine. He has taught at Harvard, Berkeley, Cornell, Barnard and the City University of New York, and his most recent books are "A Writer's America: Landscape in Literature," published by Knopf in 1988, and "Our New York," Harper & Row, 1989.
 
SEEDLINGS AND FISH
 Each year the Fairfield County Soil and Water Conservation District in Bethel sells a limited number of seedling trees and a supply of fingerling trout for private ponds at below-market prices. Seedling evergreens are recommended as economical and decorative replacements for trees lost in the recent storms. They are sold at 6 to 10 inches in height and grow at a rate of 8 to 14 inches a year. Balsam fir, Eastern white pine, Scotch pine, white spruce, Colorado blue spruce and Canadian hemlock are the varieties available. Orders must be placed by Sept. 20, and 25 seedlings cost $15 to $20, depending on the species; 100 are sold for $40 to $45. Larger amounts are sold at greater discounts.
Rainbow and brown trout fingerlings are for sale at $26 for 50 fish. The rainbow trout are bred for ponds and grow quickly, bite well and put on spectacular aerial displays. Brown trout survive on lower oxygen levels, are sometimes hard to catch and are better at resisting acid rain. They also prey on fingerlings that are stocked later. Fish must be ordered by Sept. 27. They come in a plastic bag in which they can survive for about two hours. Call 744-6108 to order or obtain more information.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); POLAND (69%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); POLAND (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS QUILTS & QUILTING (92%); HISTORY (91%); CALENDARS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PAINTING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MAYORS (70%); FILM (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



189 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
Extracting Siberian Oil

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
Big oil companies remain wary about pledging billions to ventures in the vast oilfields of the Soviet republics. But a deal joining Phibro Energy Inc. of Greenwich, Conn.; a Houston-based independent, Anglo-Suisse Inc., and a Russian oil association nearly a year ago is already providing the Russians with foreign currency from crude exports.
Several other independent oil companies in the West had signed deals before the coup attempt last month, but few have moved as rapidly as the Phibro-Anglo-Suisse group, called White Nights. A Russian oil cooperative has 50 percent ownership. 
 "Our history of dealing with the Russians was that it might take months to hammer out a contract, but once it was done, the Soviets honored their commitments," said Ronald H. Benson, a Phibro executive who is president of White Nights. The group has nearly 1,000 workers, including more than 900 Soviet workers hardened to life in western Siberia.
Those harsh conditions and the collapsing Soviet economy have taken a toll on some Texans and Oklahomans. Gilles Labbe, president of Anglo-Suisse, said that this summer he fired two American administrators who were frustrated by the bureaucracy.
Yet production is rising. Output in three fields operated by White Nights has grown to 22,000 barrels a day and will reach 400,000 by 1996, Mr. Labbe said. Another deal signed in July among the same partners, called Golden Mammoth, will pump 600,000 barrels a day in five years, from 25,000 today, he said.
White Nights expects to invest $1 billion over 20 years and to drill more than 500 wells in three fields that hold 800 million barrels. Another $2 billion is expected to be spent in Golden Mammoth, which has two billion barrels of reserves, Mr. Labbe said.
Oil experts gauge the Soviet Union's total oil reserves at about 60 billion barrels. But some geologists say the region could surpass Saudi Arabia, with its proven reserves of 250 billion barrels.
Big Oil seems certain to join the hunt soon. Matthew Sagers, an analyst at PlanEcon, a consulting firm in Washington, said deals with Western companies could increase Soviet oil output by four million barrels a day in 1994, from about 10 million barrels today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald H. Benson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHIBRO ENERGY INC; ANGLO-SUISSE INC HOUSTON TEXANS (55%); HOUSTON TEXANS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHIBRO ENERGY INC; ANGLO-SUISSE INC HOUSTON TEXANS (55%); HOUSTON TEXANS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; SIBERIA (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); COUPS (56%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C; BENSON, RONALD H

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



190 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2095 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Life's Embattled Founder Takes to the Stump

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG

DATELINE: NYACK, N.Y.

 BODY:
Several months ago, as public jitters over the safety of high-yield junk bonds were sending the giant insurer Executive Life down its long road to ruin, Herbert Kurz went on the defensive. If policyholders of his Presidential Life Insurance Company got nervous, the junk bond-laden insurer could also face a destructive run.
So he drove to New York City, where he lectured at length to financial reporters about how Presidential differed from Executive Life. A few months later, Mr. Kurz was again on the stump, this time scolding a California news commentator for bad-mouthing Presidential on a radio talk show. Just a few weeks ago, he urged a group of insurance agents who sell his company's policies to ignore predictions that Presidential could be the industry's next fatality. 
 While other insurers have larger junk portfolios in absolute terms, Presidential is now the industry's junk-bond leader in relative measure. At the end of 1990, more than half of its $2.3 billion in assets, or $1.28 billion, was invested in junk. These high-yield holdings equaled 12 times its capital and surplus, the cushion it keeps against losses. Only Executive Life, which collapsed last April after scores of policyholders cashed in during a junk-bond scare, had a similar percentage.
The 71-year-old Mr. Kurz, who founded Presidential 25 years ago and almost singlehandedly built it into one of the country's larger life insurers, argues that several factors distinguish his company from Executive Life. Indeed, its junk bonds are of much higher quality than were Executive Life's.
For now, no one is predicting -- at least not publicly -- that Presidential will fail. According to New York insurance regulators, the company remains firmly solvent and has been able to meet all requests for policy redemptions. Presidential is also one of the more profitable companies in the life insurance industry, with returns on shareholders' equity consistently in the high teens.
But then, Executive Life was among the industry's biggest money makers before its demise. And that similarity, along with Presidential's heavy exposure to junk bonds, is why Mr. Kurz's company, more than any other life insurer, has faced such intense scrutiny since Executive Life's fall and spooked so many analysts.
"We're watching the company's earnings and bond portfolio extremely closely," said Philip Tsang, who follows Presidential for Standard & Poor's.
Many others have been, too. Presidential's stock, traded over the counter, has plummetted from a peak of $14 in November 1989, closing at $3.125 on Friday. Its policyholders, while by no means showing signs of panic, have been cashing in their Presidential policies at a quicker pace: In the first six months of 1991, they redeemed Presidential annuity contracts worth $176.9 million, up from $146 million for all of 1990.
And Moody's and Standard & Poor's have both rated Presidential's claims-paying ability to be weak relative to that of competitors. While the bulk of the bonds in Presidential's portfolio are paying the interest and principal due on them, Robert Riegel, the Presidential analyst at Moody's, says "with their sort of exposure, a hit here or there could significantly weaken the company."
And because the two rating agencies wield substantial clout in shaping insurance agents' opinions about which life insurers can be counted on to make payments over the long haul, the decision by Moody's and Standard & Poor's to assign Presidential a mediocre rating could hamper Presidential's ability to sell policies in the future.
Clearly, Mr. Kurz is on the firing line. While maintaining that Presidential's strategy is sound, Mr. Kurz, responding to critics and taking advantage of the high prices junk bonds are fetching now, began selling some of his bonds several weeks ago. Even so, Presidential still has what by industry standards is a high exposure to junk bonds: 45 percent of total assets.
Mr. Kurz, who stands a lean 6 feet, 5 inches tall, started out in the business as a rather conservative investor. A World War II Air Force navigator and Brooklyn College economics graduate, Mr. Kurz quit his uncle's X-ray equipment company to sell life insurance. Later, in 1966, he formed Presidential to sell "term" life insurance, a type of coverage that provides only insurance protection; it has no savings component. When Presidential's term insurance business was firmly established, Mr. Kurz moved Presidential into the annuity business in the early 1970's. At first he invested the company's annuity dollars in short-term, corporate I.O.U.'s known as commercial paper. But as the market for annuities grew, Presidential moved heavily into junk bonds.
As was the case with Executive Life, many of the junk bonds Presidential purchased in those early days -- and many of the bonds that remain in its portfolio today -- were sold by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the Wall Street firm that went under after Federal law enforcement officials accused it of securities-law violations. Mr. Kurz, who counts Michael Milken, the former head of Drexel's junk-bond operation, as a friend, says Presidential accumulated such a large junk-bond portfolio in part because of Mr. Milken's urging.
But Mr. Kurz insists that the two insurers are a world apart. Executive Life, he maintains, purchased the great bulk of junk bonds Drexel presented, while Presidential was more selective, typically buying only one in seven bond issues and ultimately one in 40 issues once Drexel's legal problems started to surface.
Executive Life was also more vulnerable to a customer run because it sold its policies through stockbrokers rather than insurance agents. The agents tend to be more loyal to the insurer and thus more likely than a stockbroker to encourage nervous customers to sit tight rather than cash in their policies when rumors start, Mr. Kurz said.
Executive Life was also vulnerable by virtue of the size of its clients. It sold so-called guaranteed investment contracts, or G.I.C.'s, which promise locked-in interest rates, to pension clients, one or two of which had the power to bring the company to its knees by withdrawing their money. Presidential's clients, in contrast, are much smaller. And unlike Executive Life, which was known for bolstering its capital with accounting gimmickry, Presidential has a reputation for keeping clean books.
Moreover, to this day, Presidential has virtually no commercial mortgages or real estate on its books, two areas that have produced chaos at other large insurers. "We missed most of the problem areas," Mr. Kurz said in an interview at Presidential's headquarters here last week.
And Presidential's junk portfolio, while highly risky, appears to be healthier than Executive Life's. As of June 30, many of Presidential's bonds were higher-quality junk -- companies rated "BB" by Standard & Poor's, like Chiquita Brands. But the largest portion were rated "B," including the FMC Corporation and Bell & Howell. While these debtors are making all of their principal and interest payments, they are viewed by rating agencies as posing a markedly greater risk of default than "BB" bonds. An additional 8.7 percent of Presidential's bonds were rated "CCC" or lower, meaning that specific business developments have made them candidates for default. Executive Life had a higher percentage of "C"-rated bonds.
For their part, New York State regulators say there is nothing they can or would do to rein in Presidential. Terence Lennon, the chief of the New York Insurance Department's Life Insurance Bureau, noted that Presidential is paying all claims promptly, does not appear to be suffering a run and has repeatedly passed examiner's solvency tests.
"If the economy stays good and those junk-bond credits do well, Herb will make a lot of money," Mr. Lennon said.
But investors, rating agencies and some customers are uneasy about those if's. The junk bonds would be less of an issue if Presidential had substantial capital to cushion against losses. But Presidential's capital position has also become controversial. Mr. Tsang, the Standard & Poor's analyst who follows Presidential, argues that Presidential's capital, reported at $126 million as of June 30, is "conservative" for a company of its size.
But an analysis by Weiss Research, a West Palm Beach, Fla., firm that rates insurance companies, found that, based on historical bond default rates, Presidential's capital could be easily wiped out in a recession. "Basically, Kurz has been telling people that he is low-risk and high-yield and that is just not true," said Martin Weiss, the president of Weiss Research.
Presidential fared relatively well in the current downturn, said Weiss Research, because many of its junk bonds were issued by manufacturing companies, which were not hit as hard as the service sector. Unless the company unloads some of its junk, the company, it said, might not be as fortunate the next time the economy slumps.
Until now, Mr. Kurz has been able to confound even his sharpest critics. Presidential would have to suffer at least $126 million in losses on its junk bonds to wipe out its capital cushion and become insolvent. So far, the losses have been nowhere near that.
Last year, for instance, Presidential reported "realized capital losses" of $5.9 million, or well under 1 percent of the company's total assets. The figure refers to performing bonds that have been sold at a loss or to bonds in default that have been sold. In addition, Presidential reported "unrealized losses," meaning losses from bonds that have gone into default but have not yet been disposed, of $73.9 million.
Presidential has also had more than enough investment income -- some $260.8 million last year -- to offset its losses.
What is more, the losses seem to be narrowing. In the first six months of this year, realized and unrealized losses were only $12.8 million.
"The key difference is that we know how to make money," said Mr. Kurz. "With profits, we can make a few errors."
But critics say that the decline in its losses on junk bonds has little to do with the health of Presidential's bonds. Rather, they say, it reflects the drop in interest rates, which has driven up prices of junk bonds and allowed Presidential to sell its junk at less of a loss or even a gain.
If Mr. Kurz has emerged as Presidential's leading cheerleader, it should come as no surprise. In addition to being the architect of the company's junk-bond policy, Mr. Kurz still owns roughly a third of the company's 28 million shares. As the stock as fallen, Mr. Kurz has seen the value of his personal holdings decline by more than $100 million.
Mr. Kurz has been spending his days writing letters to agent groups encouraging them not to write the company off. In coming weeks, Mr. Kurz will meet with more agent and customer groups and is set to talk about Presidential on a local radio talk show.
Defending Presidential is a challenge he seems to relish. "I built this company in my image," he said. "When someone makes it bleed, I bleed."
 
 
WHY CONFIDENCE IS KEY
Ultimately, of course, the outcome at Presidential could turn on policyholder confidence. Presidential's chief, Herbert Kurz, insists that the company is extremely liquid.
That means his company could sell its entire junk-bond portfolio and pay off the vast majority of Presidential's annuity and life insurance policy holders without suffering a loss on the transaction.
This is largely a consequence of the fact that many of Presidential's junk bonds are paying sky-high interest and thus have risen in value as interest rates have fallen.
But interest rates could turn. Critics note that if rates were to rise sharply, Presidential's junk bonds would fall in value and the company would not have as easy a time meeting policy redemptions. While Presidential might then still have the means to pay everyone who came knocking, all this assumes that policyholders don't panic and cash in their policies at once.
Given the events earlier this summer at Mutual Benefit Life, that assumption might have to be reconsidered. The giant Newark-based insurer failed because concerns over Mutual Benefit's mortgage investments sent hordes of policyholders streaming through Mutual Benefit's doors for refunds.
"Even if Presidential doesn't face major defaults on its junk bonds, there still is a big risk," said Ted Brownstein, the head of insurance ratings at Weiss Research, a West Palm Beach, Fla., firm.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herbert Kurz heads the Presidential Life Insurance Company. (Suzanne Dechillo for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "How Vulnerable Is Prudential Life?" tracks net income, cushion against expected losses, gain or loss on bonds sold and losses on defaulted bonds still owned, 1987-1991 (Sources: New York Department of Insurance, Presidential Life)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO PRESIDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRESIDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); ANNUITIES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N; KURZ, HERBERT HERBERT KURZ (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



191 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Waiting to See How Far Gold Falls

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
Already well in decline, gold has been dipping even further in the last two weeks. Some hopeful analysts are raising the possibility that gold is finally near its bottom, which would be a signal to buy. But for others, gold's dismal performance in recent years is such a bad memory that they are waiting -- even hoping -- that it will fall considerably more. Then, and only then, do they be expect a rally, even if it is just a small one.
On Friday, gold closed in London at 348.05 an ounce, its lowest level since June, 1990 and below the psychologically important $350 level. It dipped to $347 an ounce a week ago. 
 Warren Myers, a vice president at Merrill Lynch, expects that at the $350 level gold will find a secure bottom as demand picks up from jewelry manufacturers and investors in Japan and many developing nations, like those in the Middle East, where shaky economies sometimes make gold more attractive.
"I do believe that gold is locked in a trading range between where it is now and $390," Mr. Myers said. He said that getting beyond this range will take some "Armageddon" event.
While he is not predicting one, he cites four possibilities: A halt in gold production in South Africa, the world's largest producer, if a civil war were to break out; a disruption of the flow of gold from the new, more loosely defined Soviet Union; a significant jump in the United States budget deficit, already at record highs, or the failure of one or two major money center banks in the United States.
Alan Posnick, senior vice president of the MTB Banking Corporation, a New York gold coin dealer, said, "the message that gold is sending us is that it is the forgotten financial commodity."
He said that at $347, gold could be forming what analysts call a double, or solid, bottom on charts of gold prices. Normally, this would be a signal to buy. But, he added, "I would prefer that gold trade down to $325 and establish a new low."
His reason is this: Given the weak performance of gold in the last five years, "too many potential investors have seen gold stuck in this range for some time." But if gold moved $25 an ounce lower and then held there, investors might think it was really ready to rise again. The resultant buying, naturally, would be fine for a coin dealer like MTB Banking.
But even if gold holds at the $347-to-$350 level, Mr. Posnick still does not expect it to get higher than $365 to $375 by the end of the year.
Joseph Rosta, a research analyst for the CPM Group in New York, said the explanation for the drop is simple. "Traders and speculators decided that the price of gold did not have much room for appreciation in the near term, so they bailed out and took their assets elsewhere," he said.
Mr. Rosta, pointing to the $350 range in the prices for the December gold contracts on the New York Commodity Exchange, expects gold to hold at the $350 level. But he said there is still a chance gold could break loose and fall to around $320.
This would happen if the price moves decisively below the $350 level. On the charts many analysts use to follow gold, the next stop below $350 is around $320. Orders to sell based on these charts could push the price down that low rather quickly.
"The trend of gold has been downward from $370 an ounce on March 8," added David A. Poole, chief economist at International Investors Inc., a gold fund in New York. "You really cannot call a change in the trend so far."
 
Bonds Are Up
 Americans investing in foreign bonds had their third-best month of the year in August. The gains averaged 1.89 percent after exchange rate fluctuations were factored in, according to the J. P. Morgan government-bond index.
The best markets were in Spain, Canada and Australia. In those countries, local bond prices rose during August; the countries' currencies also rose against the dollar, giving investors a double gain.
But for the year so far, the sharp rise in the dollar has made Europe in general a bad place for American bond investors. While local bond prices have jumped sharply in Spain (13.95 percent) and Britain (12.31 percent), the peseta and the pound have dropped sharply against the dollar. The result is a 2.50 percent decline in Britain and a measly 0.34 percent rise in Spain, including the 3.18 percent jump in August.
The bond market rallies in local currencies have been boosted by cuts in official interest rates and investors' hopes for more to come. Strong improvement in inflation rates have also helped.
For example, much of the rally in Australian bonds, which were up 1.87 percent in August and 13.17 percent for the year in local terms, has come on the back of the Government's new emphasis on fighting inflation. The expectation is that Australian inflation could fall as low as two percent in the next year or so. In addition, the Government also cut its key short term interest rate one percentage point last week.
In Britain, the bond rally was sparked by official interest rate cut, including another half of a percentage point last week. And inflation, which had been double digit, is heading to below 5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); CPM GROUP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES; FORECASTS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (73%); BUDGETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (64%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



192 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/September 1-6

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Why It Took So Long to Expose B.C.C.I. 

When the Justice Department unsealed six indictments against officials of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International and a reputed leader of the Medellin drug cartel for money laundering, some wondered why it took so long. "Today's indictment should have occurred two or three years ago," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, who released a report last week critical of the slow pace. The problem, he said, is that leads were never followed up. Some suspect B.C.C.I.'s network of consultants and highly placed friends slowed discovery. The Internal Revenue Service said that in 1988 it gave information about B.C.C.I.'s secret ownership of American banks to the Federal Reserve; nothing happened. The Central Intelligence Agency, in 1986, knew about the money-laundering. "There is possibly a cover-up or conspiracy," Mr. Schumer said. "But it is also a 50 percent chance that it was just ineptitude."
 
An Apology of Sorts From P.& G.
 
When the Procter & Gamble Company admitted it had set in motion a probe of the records of 803,000 phones in Cincinnati, it was bad enough. The company was trying to find out which of its 94,000 employees had leaked information to The Wall Street Journal about P.& G.'s plans. But when Edwin L. Artz, P.& G.'s chairman, apologized in writing to the staff for snooping he may have angered even more people. He admitted the company did something wrong, he wrote he was embarrassed, but he asserted that the wrongdoing was for all the right reasons. P.& G., Mr. Artz wrote, "had a clear legal right to seek the assistance of the authorities to investigate potential damaging leaks of confidential company information." But to investigate an entire city? Legal suits against P.& G. are expected to follow.

Ford Goes Back to the Past
 
A little "freshening up" is how the stylists at the Ford Motor Company described their revisions on the 1992 Taurus and Sable models. They made the hood slope a little more, narrowed the headlights a tad and steamlined the dash. But without the warning, the changes could have gone unnoticed. The cars look surprisingly like the original 1985 models. What was sleek then (they resembled bars of Sweetheart soap, analysts said) may be dowdy now. "Ford's product renewal cycle is 10 years or more, while the Japanese are doing it in four," said James Harbour, a manufacturing consultant to the automotive industry. That is costing Ford market share. While the Taurus remains a 1985 fly caught in amber (engines and all), the Honda Accord has seen three new sets of skin, pushing the Taurus aside as the nation's No. 1 selling car.

Coke's Image Doctor
 
Coca-Cola may be one of the world's best-known trademarks, but after the "Coke II" fiasco -- a series of forgettable commercials and a promotion that featured a pop-up dollar bill that didn't pop up -- Coke's image needed some sprucing up. The company announced last week that it had hired Hollywood's premier power broker, Michael S. Ovitz, to help with its global marketing, advertising and image. (What exactly Mr. Ovitz will do, Coca-Cola did not say.) Mr. Ovitz is the talent agent who fashioned the deal to sell MCA Inc. to Japan's Matsushita Electric Company and Columbia Pictures to Japan's Sony Corporation. Mr. Ovitz, the chairman of Creative Artists Agency Inc., represents Hollywood celebrities like Madonna, Michael Jackson and Kevin Costner. Mr. Ovitz will need all the client clout he can get to match the sizzle of Diet Pepsi's Ray Charles spot, "You've got the right one baby, uh-huh."
 
Unisys Confesses
 
The Unisys Corporation pleaded guilty last week in a Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., to bribery, conspiracy and filing false claims with the Pentagon. Unisys will pay $190 million to settle the charges.

Punishment at Salomon
 
It was a week full of apologies. Warren E. Buffett, the Omaha investor who is interim chairman of Salomon Brothers Inc., told a House subcommittee that he was sorry for "the actions that have brought us here." Then he presented a report to Congress about some of Salomon's wrongdoings. The report detailed what was a lax management style. It said Paul Mozer, Salomon's former head of the government trading desk, changed records of submitted bids and called in at least one unauthorized bid for a customer he was not even in touch with. It said the trading desk had "rules" about who could and could not approve illegal activities. The severity of the report must have persuaded Salomon to judge more harshly the top executives who resigned because of the scandal. The executives, including John H. Gutfreund, the former chairman, will not share in bonuses, will not get office space and will not be defended at Salomon's expense.
 
The British Treasury last week ousted Salomon from managing its sale of British Telecommunications stock in the United States.
 
Fast or Tasty?
 
With some home-delivered pizzas, it is hard to taste the difference between the cardboard and the crust. There have also been accidents -- some fatal -- as companies rush to deliver their pizzas faster than the competition. So Domino's Pizza Inc., which had $2.65 billion in sales last year and is first in home delivery, is fashioning a new $50 million ad campaign that emphasizes taste and downplays speed. The campaign is being created by Grey Advertising Inc. in New York. In these ads, said Edward H. Meyer, Grey's chairman, "the product plays the hero role."

 
 
ECONOMY

 
A Business Buying Spree
 
Every month, the National Association of Purchasing Management surveys 300 of the nation's largest companies on their ordering plans. Last week the association said its index surged to 54.8 percent in August, up from 51.8 percent in July. Anything above 50 percent denotes an economy that is expanding.

Autos Are Barely Moving
 
For the nation's car and truck makers 1991 is a year they would rather forget. Last week there was more bad news. Sales by domestic manufacturers during the last half of August slid 11.6 percent from the same period last year.

When Companies Defy Logic
 
Most economists abide by one rather dubious proposition: People behave rationally. Lower the price, economists say, and people will be only too happy to buy. So with interest rates falling and the price of money coming down, businesses should be borrowing and investing for the future. But according to the Commerce Department, companies will be increasing their investments in new plants and equipment this year by a scant 1.6 percent, far less than the 4.5 percent increase in 1990, when interest rates were high and the recession began. When the economy finally picks up, a number of supposedly rational companies may find they have too little capacity.

Interpreting the Jobless Rate
 
The unemployment picture could have been painted by a Cubist: it fuses together more than one perspective. The figures themselves, according to the Labor Department, were virtually unchanged for August with 6.8 percent of the work force still without jobs. On the positive side: Lots of new jobs were added in manufacturing. On the negative side: Construction and mining showed sharp declines. The markets saw the numbers and figured interest rates will fall further.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
A Space Station of One's Own
 
The Soviet space program -- the world's largest -- is running out of money. To keep it going (they still launch more than 100 payloads each year) the Soviets are turning to the West. One money-making project -- no one has said how much it made -- was an experiment paid for by the Coca-Cola Company. It was designed to measure what happens to the gases in soda when cosmonauts aboard the Mir orbiting space station drink Coke. Another project has been to sell trips on Mir. A Japanese company paid $12 million for a journalist to spend a week on Mir -- he was nauseous the whole time -- and some German, British and French guests have signed up. But last week the Soviets announced the unthinkable. They are considering selling the station altogether. For an estimated $600 million to $700 million, some lucky buyer could have a slightly used 100-foot-long space station 240 miles out in space. Considering NASA's plan to spend $30 billion to build a similar model, the Mir looks like a bargain.
 
Israel Wouldn't Wait
 
President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d had asked Israel to delay its request for $10 billion in loan guarantees for at least 120 days. The Administration wants peace negotiations between Israel and its Arab neighbors to begin before it considers the request. But last week, Israel, confident it had strong support from Congress, made its request anyway. The aid -- which would probably cost the United States $50 million to more than $1 billion -- would allow Israel to borrow $10 billion in the capital markets at more favorable rates. Israel wants the money so it can construct housing for as many as a million Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union. The battle in Congress is expected to take months.

The Japan Scandal Grows
 
Tales about abuses in Japan's securities industry continue to surface. Last week, reports in Japanese newspapers -- confirmed by the Ministry of Finance -- told of rigged bidding for securities sold not only in Japan but in markets around the world. The bogus trades allowed individuals and companies to make illegal payments to each other outside the jurisdiction of Tokyo authorities.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mir space station (Reuters); Charles Schumer (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Edwin Artz, of P.& G.; The 1992 Taurus: a subtle makeover (Ford Motor Company)
 
Graphs track percent change in the National Association of Purchasing Management's index of economic activity, Aug. 1990-Aug. 1991 (Source: National Association of Puschasing Management); U.S. seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for new cars, Aug. 1990-Aug. 1991 (Source: Company reports); spending fo new plants and equipment by businesses, 1987-1991* (*1991, estimate) (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); PGP (PAR) (83%); PG (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (83%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); CARTELS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



193 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Dance with a Bouncy Dollar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif.

 BODY:
Robert J. Prantis is neither a software wizard nor a hardware guru. But when he loaded up his car and left Chicago two years ago to begin a new career in Silicon Valley, he was exactly what Sun Microsystems Inc., the hot young manufacturer of computer work stations, needed. His expertise was in the arcane world of currency markets and hedging against the sudden fluctuations in the value of the dollar. His move to Sun shows how sophisticated many American corporations have had to become at dealing with dollar volatility as they compete in the global marketplace.
Sun wooed Mr. Prantis away from the Beatrice Corporation because, like more and more American companies, it found itself heavily dependent on sales outside the United States -- more than 50 percent of its sales are abroad and involve as many as 20 different currencies. Sun did not want swings in the currency markets to throw its financial plans into chaos. And in the years since Mr. Prantis arrived, Sun has managed to minimize the impact of this volatility. 
 Sun isn't the only company that needs foreign exchange expertise. Last year, according to the Commerce Department, 19 percent of American corporate profits came from abroad, up from 11.7 percent in 1986. In the first quarter of this year that percentage rose to 23.8 percent. But a quick run-up in the dollar can dent a company's foreign sales and quarterly profits and even cause a sudden drop in the stock price. That's what happened to companies as varied as the Ford Motor Company and the Amdahl Corporation after the dollar soared in February and March and held most of its gains through the summer. The Polaroid Corporation, lost 11 cents per share in the first quarter because of the rise of the dollar.
"In a place like the United States, that is tied to the quarterly earnings report, foreign exchange is more and more a driving force," said Thomas J. Meredith, Sun's treasurer.
Many companies are being driven to expand their foreign exchange expertise by memories of the wreckage caused by the dollar's rise during the early 1980's, when it soared more than 50 percent, reaching all-time highs against many currencies. American goods suddenly became prohibitively expensive abroad, giving foreign competitors an edge and causing American exports to decline. Imports rose at home, as foreign products became cheaper for Americans to buy. The balance of trade worsened and American manufacturers were pummeled; entire industries went into decline.
Between 1980 and 1985, more than a million manufacturing jobs were lost, according to William H. Branson, an economics professor at Princeton University, and James P. Love, a lecturer at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton.
Corporate currency management and demand for experts like Mr. Prantis have thus grown with a vengeance. Although the immediate mission of the currency hedgers is to protect the next quarter's bottom line, at more and more companies -- Merck, Tandem Computers and Eastman Kodak, for example -- they also have instructions to look to the mid- and long-term, to anticipate broad trends in global interest rates and currency flows and to take steps to reduce the impact of such shifts or even ride them to additional profits.
 
Insurance Against Adversity
 To do this, the hedgers are growing ever more sophisticated. They are turning to familiar hedges, like contracting for delivery of a currency at a set price in the future to lock in the present dollar value of a big sale. But they are also using strategies like currency options, currency proxies and elaborate combinations of currency trading instruments. Many of these instruments are new and some are exotic, but they all basically buy insurance against an adverse move in the dollar. Corporate hedgers are also pushing accountants for additional rule changes to increase the opportunities for hedging.
And the most experienced companies are venturing into a broader type of hedging that can cross the line into strategic planning: economic hedging. This is an approach that looks years ahead, considers who the competitors will most likely be and how currency strategy relates to products, plant locations, labor and suppliers.
"People are starting to view foreign exchange with a much more strategic view," said Scott S. Silver, vice president of International Risk Control in Palo Alto, Calif., a consultant on currency hedging. "They are looking at how currency rates effect the competitive nature of their business, not just how it impacts their quarterly earnings. It is hedging on a grander scale."
To be sure, one reason chief financial officers and their staffs can hedge currency fluctuations with some success is that the dollar is less volatile overall than it was a decade ago. There will always be some sharp swings. But most experts say that the United States and its economic allies are doing a much better job coordinating economic and monetary policies in a way that helps reduce extreme moves in the $700 billion-a-day foreign exchange market.
 
Riding the Volatility
 And Sun Microsystems, as well as companies like Ingersoll-Rand, Colgate-Palmolive, International Paper, Dow Chemical and Hewlett-Packard are better prepared to ride out even the sharp swings of recent years, including the 27 percent rally since mid-February and the sudden fall of 6 percent in mid-July.
"No one likes the volatility, but you look to see what you can do within the movement," said Fred Lopatynski, manager of foreign exchange at Ingersoll-Rand. "People have learned to adapt and to adjust to it."
Added Hans Pohlschroeder, the manager of foreign exchange at Colgate-Palmolive: "In today's environment, where governments are talking more and trying to harmonize economic policies, we are getting more well-managed fluctuations of the dollar. And that will lead you to believe that you should be able to manage your currency positions well."
One measure of hedging growth is the rapid rise in corporate activity in the foreign exchange market. According to Greenwich Associates, a consulting firm in Greenwich, Conn., total corporate trading volume has jumped to an average per company in 1990 of $7.178 billion a year from $3.784 billion in 1988. Another measure is the increase in corporate trading staffs. Tandem Computer's staff, although still lean, has tripled since 1987, to three. Ingersoll-Rand has not increased its staff, but has grown in other ways, Mr. Lopatynski said. It has installed new computers and communications systems that track changes in the company's currency exposure much faster than before.
 
From the Ground Up
 The impetus for Sun's buildup came during a financial crisis in 1989 when earnings suddenly sagged and it appeared that the company, famed for its Silicon Valley Cinderella growth, was stumbling. Every dollar began to count. "We didn't know where we were making our money," said Mr. Meredith.
When he arrived, Mr. Prantis had to begin with the basics. "There was no organizational chart and it was difficult just to find the people in the company who were responsible for flows of money," he said.
He began by identifying Sun's exposure to foreign exchange risk. It was not as easy as it sounded, because information can travel slowly in a growing company. "Sun has to be vigilant month to month and has to identify all the exposures," Mr. Meredith said. "A supplier agreement could lapse and the internal reporting mechanisms could not catch it fast enough." Also, in a company with decentralized operations, there can be jealousies about giving up authority. "There was a battle to get it centralized," Mr. Prantis said.
One thing Mr. Meredith, Mr. Prantis and Dianne M. Edmonds, another member of the Sun treasury operation, found was that Sun's subsidiary in Japan was buying work stations from Sun in the United States in dollars and selling them in yen while headquarters was selling dollars to buy yen to pay for work station components it bought from Japan. This meant there was a flood of currency exchanging, which left the company doubly exposed to the risk of dollar-yen fluctuations.
Unraveling this problem was not easy, and some Japanese banks lost much of Sun's currency business. But eventually, the home office prevailed, and the yen-dollar exchanging ceased. This left Sun with what is called a natural hedge: it was being paid in yen by customers and paying suppliers with the same yen so there was no exposure to currency fluctuations. The change, Mr. Meredith estimated, has saved the company about $1 million in the last year.
 
Balancing Gain and Risk
 Sun is developing similar natural hedges in Europe, but they are less extensive than in Japan. So the company deals with that currency exposure by purchasing currency "forwards," which work this way: If the company sells a number of work stations to be delivered over several months at a certain price in French francs, Sun buys a forward for the amount of the buyer's purchase orders. That locks in the current price of the franc and protects Sun in case the franc's value dives in the coming months as the work stations are delivered. Sun knows, of course, that the foreign currency could rise sharply in those months, causing the company to miss a chance to make some extra money. But Mr. Meredith and his colleagues prefer to avoid the currency risk completely simply by locking in the value of the mark.
Some companies have been hedging currencies for much longer than Sun, even back to the 70's when the dollar was freed to float against other currencies. And some, like Merck & Company and the Eastman Kodak Company, are larger players in the market. At the end of last year, for example, Merck had hedges of $1.327 billion in place. David Fiedler, director of foreign exchange planning at Kodak, said his company also had major positions, though he declined to reveal how much.
Like Sun, these companies use natural hedges and buy currency forwards. But they also employ things like currency options. With an option, Kodak might pay a fee for the right to buy dollars against the company's marks or yen at a set price in the future. When that future time arrives, the company does not have to buy the dollars if the market price is not advantageous, but it loses the fee it paid for the right of purchase. Thus, options provide insurance against an adverse move in the dollar while maintaining the opportunity to profit.
Hedging is rarely perfect but it can pay off handsomely if there are sharp, unexpected moves of the dollar. When asked how they capitalized on the dollar last spring, several companies said they were prepared for the rise, but not for such a dramatic rise.
More and more companies are also pushing for accounting rule changes to broaden the opportunities for hedging strategies. Hedge accounting requires that a company be able to show that its transactions actually will take place. If it has sales invoices in hand for future delivery of a product, a company can then carry currency hedging instruments on its books without having to change their value every quarter to reflect the current market. If a company had to follow this "mark to market" approach, it would experience the volatility hedging is designed to avoid.
Mr. Fiedler at Kodak, for one, is aggressively seeking the rule changes. "It is safe to say that on the margin there are companies that are recognizing economic risk but do not hedge because they can not get hedge accounting," he said. Hedge accounting rules tend to limit hedges over longer periods of time and hedges that would be made against anticipated income from the development of new products, as compared with expected sales from existing merchandise in the future.
 
Out in Front of the Rules
 Accountants with experience in corporate hedging say that their profession is often slow to recognize the legitimacy of various hedging strategies and permit their clients to avoid mark-to-market accounting requirements. "The accountants are, as usual, a little behind in getting the rules up to what is going on in practice," said Bob Mills, national industry director for investment banking at KPMG Peat Marwick in New York.
Merck is regarded as one of the leaders in long-term economic hedging. The philosophy, according to Judy C. Lewent, vice president and chief financial officer, is to protect Merck's cash flow so that the company can be certain of having the money for the research and development that is so vital to its competitive position in the global drug industry.
For example, the new drug Proscar, for treating an enlarged prostate, has been in development for years and is still going through the approval process at the Food and Drug Administration. In planning its hedging strategies, Ms. Lewent said the company set a goal for the cash flow needed to pay for the development of that and other drugs. It used forwards, options and other hedging techniques to try to guarantee the necessary cash-flow level.
Compared with companies like Merck, Sun is just a beginner. Only recently did it move beyond natural hedges and the simple world of forwards. Now it is pushing into currency options and proxy currencies, which is the use of one general currency, like the German mark, to represent several European currencies, instead of hedging all the currencies individually.
Until July 1, Sun routinely hedged all its sales abroad by buying currency forwards. But now, in a move that reflects its growing sophistication, the company tries to take advantage of the dollar's movement. This means that when the dollar is weak or falling the company may elect not to put a hedge in place. The risk of course, is that the dollar won't move as predicted, costing Sun money.
Like many companies, Sun has been conservative because it has taken so much time to move the entire company along the hedging learning curve. But it also holds back because it fears getting burned in the foreign exchange market.
There are glaring examples of companies whose operations have gone bad. This year, Allied-Lyons P.L.C., the British food and liquor company, reported a foreign exchange loss of 150 million pounds, or about $265 million. Three of the company's top executives have since resigned, though the company did not explain what happened in detail. Some analysts believe Allied-Lyons had begun speculating on currency movements rather than just hedging and fared badly.
"When you start playing the foreign exchange game you are adding risk to the equation," Mr. Meredith said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sun Microsystems' Edmonds, Meredith and Prantis. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. 6)
 
Graphs: The volatile dollar: a 27 percent rally since mid-February includes a sharp drop of 6 percent in July. Graph tracks the value of the dollar in Germaqn marks, Jan.-Sept. 6, 1991 (Source: Datastream) (pg. 1); "Over the Ocean," tracks U.S. corporate profits from abroad as a percentage of profits, 1986-1991* (*1991, first half.) (Source: Commerce Dept.); "A Growing Specialty," tracks U.S. corporate currency trading volume in the large customer market, 1988-1990 (Source: Greenwich Associates) (pg. 6)
 
Chart/Graph: "Hedging: The Art of Reducing Risk"
 
A U.S. company agrees in late January to sell 10 computers to a German company for 15,000 German marks, or $10,000 at the 1,50 exchange rate of the day, for delivery in July. But by July, the dollar has rallied to 1.83 marks, making 15,000 marks worth only 8,200.
 
Here are some hedges the company can use to protect itself from a potential loss:
 
NATURAL HEDGE
 
The German subsidary of the U.S. company buys and sells in the same currency, the mark. In this case, it does not convert the 15,000 marks from the sale to dollars but uses them to buy supplies in Germany.
 
CURRENCY FORWARDS
 
When the company signs the deal in January, it buys a forward contract in the foreign exchange market, paying 15,000 marks exchangable for $10,000 in July. Even though the dollar has rallied by July to 1.83 marks to the dollar, the company is protected against the $1,800 loss because it locked in to the lower rate in January.
 
OPTIONS
 
Options offer a company insurance against a loss as well as an upside opportunity which means they are more expensive than forwards. In this case, an option would be placed to buy the dollar in July at January's rate of 1.50 marks, or $10,000 for 15,000 marks. By July, the dollar has rallied to 1.83 marks, so the company exercises the option to prevent a loss. But if the dollar had fallen to 1.40 marks, say, the company wouod drop its oiption and instead buy the dollars at 1.40 marks, getting $10,071.
 
CURRENCY FUTURES
 
Currency futures work like forwards except that forwards are worked out in private deals, while futures contracts are standardized with set amounts, fixed delivery dates and are traded on formal exchanges.
 
Graph shows the value of the dollar in German marks, Jan.-Sept. 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); FUJ (LSE) (84%); 6702 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); FUJITSU LTD (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (72%); POLAROID CORP (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CORPORATIONS CURRENCIES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



194 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Time to Open The Treasury's Auction Club?

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
The Federal Government has always depended upon rich and powerful men to help it make ends meet. For the past two centuries, the plutocratic assistance has been provided by the likes of John Jacob Astor and J. P. Morgan and, of course, Jay Cooke, the legendary banker and devout abolitionist who almost singlehandedly sold the Treasury bonds that financed the Civil War.
Today, the rich and powerful men on which the Government relies are the usually obscure executives of the 39 firms known as "primary dealers," the firms through which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York buys and sells Treasury securities to adjust the nation's money supply. The Fed also requires primary dealers to bid regularly at Treasury auctions and to make a market in Treasury debt. In return, the primary dealers are the only institutions, besides banks, that are allowed to submit auction bids on behalf of other investors -- and thus, they can spy out market trends and attract new customers seeking their guidance. 
 This vague but apparently valuable "franchise" is coming under intense scrutiny in the wake of disclosures that executives at Salomon Brothers, a primary dealer, submitted phony customer bids to circumvent Treasury limits on how much each bidder can purchase.
Some critics ask why auction bids should be channeled through this club at all. Richard Sylla, an economic historian at New York University, said the system offers some protection in that the Treasury will not lack for bidders -- a comfort, given the projected growth in Federal deficits in the next few years. No one can be forced to remain a primary dealer, however, so the assurance is hardly ironclad. "And the disadvantage," said Professor Sylla, "is that the Government is, in effect, sponsoring a cartel."
Jacob Dreyer, chief economist for the Investment Company Institute, also questioned "whether the market would not be better served if there were more bidders" -- the nation's mutual funds, for example.
E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Fed, explained at Congressional hearings last week that the Fed simply cannot do business with everyone when it needs to adjust the money supply. That, he added, "necessarily implies that some will be chosen and some will not." But it is not clear why those chosen to handle the Fed's money-modulating business should, ex officio, get the right to play a privileged role at Treasury auctions.
In the distant past, as Professor Sylla noted, the Government turned to tycoons to sell its debt because it could not find buyers otherwise. But the perverse lesson of the Salomon case is that demand for Treasury securities debt is so strong today that people are breaking the rules to buy more of them. "It does strike me as a little funny," said Professor Sylla. "In a global financial system, perhaps it just doesn't make sense to limit the bidding anymore."

GRAPHIC: Graphics: "The Dow Drops 10.28 to 3033.32," tracks Dow Jones average, Aug. 28-Sept. 6, 1991; "Yields Have Moves Lower ...", tracks the government-bond yield curve, maturity from 3 months to 30 years, for bonds of July 5, 1991 and Sept. 6, 1991; "... But Borrowing Needs Are Still High," tracks administration estimates of budget deficit, 1991-1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SALOMON BROTHERS INC FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SALOMON BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HISTORY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BONDS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); CARTELS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (67%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



195 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: All About/Luxury Cars;
A Race for the Young and Affluent

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
At its recent preview of new models, Cadillac touted some virtues of its 1992 Brougham: the greatest length of any car produced in this country, rear-wheel drive and maximum insulation from the road. They are qualities -- none of them new -- that have helped make Cadillac the nation's best-selling luxury marque. But they are features that are also aimed at a core market that is heading over the hill; the median age of a Brougham buyer is 66.
So to attract younger buyers, Cadillac, a division of the General Motors Corporation, has drastically redesigned two of its models: the 1992 Seville and Eldorado, which were introduced last week. These cars have less chrome, a leaner more "European" look and firmer suspension systems for maximum contact with the road. The new Cadillacs, which sell for $32,500 to $38,000, are more expensive than the average Cadillac, which now costs about $29,000. 
 Cadillac brought out its new Eldorados and Sevilles to compete in the loosely defined luxury market of cars selling for $20,000 or more -- a market that is not for car makers with shallow pockets. Advertising and marketing costs are high.
The new Japanese entrants into the luxury field have been spending $50 million to $60 million a year to market their products. General Motors, which spent $1.5 billion on all domestic advertising last year, does not release its expenditures by division.
The luxury-car market has also been hurt by the recession; sales have fallen by 9 percent so far this year. But they are expected to grow from their current level of about 1.3 million cars to 1.6 million by mid-decade, according to analysts.
The high costs of marketing, combined with the recession, have taken their toll. Last month, Peugeot, the French auto maker, and Sterling, of Britain, announced they would leave the American luxury market.
Peugeot and Sterling may be in retreat, but last month the Mazda Motor Corporation of Japan said it would jump into the luxury car race in 1994 with a separate division called Amati.
 
The Power of Upstarts
Complacent Europe Stumbles and Falls
 To jump into the growing luxury car market in the 80's, Japanese car makers used the same strategy they used to push into the American market for less expensive cars.
"They come into the market as good value for the dollar," said Susan Jacobs, a luxury-car market analyst with her own consulting firm in Little Falls, N.J. "Then they work off this base to develop more sophisticated products." While some of the original Acuras sold in 1988 were priced at about $16,000, the new NSX model goes for $62,600. But unlike many of the Europeans, the Japanese companies have not abandoned the bottom of the market.
The proliferation of models from the biggest Japanese car makers is quickly crowding the field. And as these car makers gain acceptance among buyers, new entrants from Japan are plunging into the market. Mitsubishi, for example, introduced this year its new Diamante, which sells for $19,939 in its basic configuration.
 
It Worked Before
Japan Spends Big, And Proliferates
 The mid-1980's were good years for European car makers. Porsche, Jaguar and Saab all watched their American sales more than double between 1982 and 1986. Jaguar sales hit a record 24,464 in 1986, while sales of Saabs peaked at 48,250 in the same year. Other European companies, including Mercedes-Benz, Volvo and BMW, also reported heady sales gains during the 80's.
Some car makers figured good times would continue and built more plants to meet anticipated demand.
But what these auto makers did not expect was the chilling effect on sales of the 1987 stock market crash. They also underestimated the Japanese, which in the late 80's took direct aim at the Europeans. Honda's Acura division, Toyota's Lexus and Nissan's Infiniti all earned critical acclaim.
The Europeans figured the status associated with their own products would keep the upstarts at bay, but they were mistaken. "Buying smart has really been coming in in the last four or five years," said John Hammond, a senior partner with J. D. Power & Associates in Agoura Hills, Calif.
In 1987, according to analysts, European car makers had 32.1 percent of the American luxury market. By 1990, their share had fallen to 23.7 percent. So far this year, Europe's luxury cars had just 19.8 percent of the market. During the same period, the American share of the luxury market -- dominated by Cadillac and the Ford Motor Company's Lincoln division -- held steady at about 50 percent.
In response, some European car makers are fleeing the increasingly competitive lower end of the luxury market where the Japanese are congregated and moving further up to enhance their prestige, which could hurt their volume but increase profits.
Mercedes-Benz has not released prices for its big, new 1992 S-Class models due out in October, but one analyst predicted they could cost 20 percent more than the 1991 models they replace. The new Mercedes 500 SEL sedan is expected to bump up against the $100,000 mark, compared with roughly $80,000 for the current 560 SEL.
Porsche, from Germany, which has seen its sales tumble to 9,140 in 1990 from 30,471 in 1986 is also moving to appeal to more-affluent buyers by introducing several costlier models. Almost alone, BMW is holding the line. It is marketing a new, entry-level 325 series with models that cost about as much as the cars they replace.
But in a crowded market with lots of appealing cars to choose from, the European car markers' strategy may backfire. Stephen Reitman, an analyst with UBS/Phillips & Drew in London, said some of the sharper price hikes for new European models may be too steep for the choice-rich consumer. "The American consumer has become more cost-conscious," he said. "The rich watch their dollars as much as anyone else."
 
Their Parents' Dream
Do Real Boomers Drive Cadillacs?
 Like Cadillac, Lincoln is retooling for the future, despite steady sales gains throughout the 80's that it won mostly at the expense of Cadillac. "As baby boomers move up, are they going to want a smaller car? That's our $64 million question," said Chuck Snearly, a Ford spokesman.
Part of Lincoln's answer is to turn out a new Lincoln Mark VIII next year with a more aerodynamic design than the Mark VII.
"We're not dismissing the Japanese entries," Mr. Snearly said. "They're headed right at us."
Lincoln's gamble on a smaller, more European-style car just might pay off. Lincoln's "evolving image is in step with the luxury market," Ms. Jacobs, the analyst, said. "The new products coming will be good competitors."
But while Lincoln has been able to build a track record of delivering quality cars, some analysts fault its marketing. "They've become somewhat invisible," said Mr. O'Grady. "In order to keep their buyers, they need to freshen up their marketing."
Lincoln disagrees. Mr. Snearly said its sales speak for themselves: they hit 231,660 in 1990, up from 101,574 in 1983. But Lincoln will run new television ads this fall.
Even so, Lincoln and Cadillac face challenges, analysts say, in trying to reach younger buyers. "They're trying to go to people who don't consider them. It can be done, but it does take time," Mr. O'Grady said.
For its part, the Chrysler Corporation is moving to promote its New Yorker models, which have not been redesigned in recent years, as affordable luxury cars. Chrysler is no longer trying to provide all cars to all customers. In the future it will focus on a narrower range of products.
 
 
ZEN AND THE ART OF BUYING A CAR
 When Americans shop for a car, they generally start by considering six models. Then they narrow the field and usually visit three showrooms before they settle on a model. In all, this takes an average of two weeks, according to J. D. Power & Associates, a consulting firm in Agoura Hills, Calif.
But buyers of luxury cars typically take twice as long to decide how they will spend their dollars. One reason is that there are now dozens of luxury models to choose from. As a result, manufacturers are placing more emphasis on the quality of the customer's shopping experience.
This has led to sizable investments in showrooms and their furnishings, typified by fountains and dramatic architecture at the Infiniti showrooms. Some Nissan Infiniti showrooms even have indoor bridges and "contemplation zones" -- designated areas where a customer can sit without harassment to think about a car in Zen-like silence.
Efforts by Infiniti and Toyota's Lexus "have sort of dragged everybody up there with them," said Ted Orme, of the National Automobile Dealers Association.
But all this elegance may backfire, said Pete Swetish, a senior partner at MOR-PACE, a consumer research firm in Farmington Hills, Mich. "They are meaningful statements to some buyers, but you might look at those kinds of things and say, 'Geez, I'm paying for that?' " he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mitsubishi's 1992 Diamante; The 300 SE from Mercedes-Benz; Honda's 1991 Acura NSX; Cadillac's 1992 Eldorado coupe.
 
Graphs: "Japan Elbows Its Way Into the Luxury Market," tracks the number ofluxury cars sold in the U.S. by each group of manufacturers -- the big three, European and Japanese -- for 1980-1990 and for Jan. to July for 1990 and 1991 (Sources: Ward's Automotive Reports, Jacobs Automotive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (64%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (64%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (83%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



196 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
Making the Scene At the U.S. Open

 BODY:
It's a sweltering afternoon at the U.S. Open, and Boris Becker is drenched with sweat going into the third set. The stadium's upper levels are packed with spectators, but down below, the crowd is sparse. At center court, the two boxes belonging to the Chase Manhattan Corporation are conspicuously empty, their blue plastic seats shimmering in the sun.
Don't think Chase doesn't harbor serious tennis fans. Just outside the stadium, in an enormous air-conditioned hospitality tent, a handful of Chase executives -- and their guests -- are lolling on wicker settees, swilling Bloody Marys and shouting at Becker's image on a big-screen television. From time to time, they amble by the bar for another cocktail, or select a few hors d'oeuvres from the silver chafing dishes on the buffet table. When Becker smashes a volley, they break into cheers and whistles. 
 Welcome to the U.S. Open, executive-style. For two weeks at summer's end, many New York business leaders have abandoned the canyons of Manhattan for the courts of Flushing Meadows. Discussion turns to finding the best tickets, the best parking spots and the best meals at the biggest corporate sporting event of the season. Executives have apparently found that entertaining clients at the U.S. Open pays -- whether or not anybody actually watches the matches.
"Most of these people have little or no interest in tennis per se," said John Feinstein, author of "Hard Courts," a recent book about the Grand Slam, tennis's four major contests. "They want to go back to the office and tell everyone, 'I was there; I saw Becker.' But they don't really follow the game."
What many do "follow" is the other spectators. "This is the people-watching event of the year," said Tom Ogdon, chief executive of the Ogdon Partnership, a New York executive search firm, which has a prime box. "You see a lot of people you know out there or people you'd like to know."
His neighbors for the two-week tournament -- which ends today -- have included the real estate developer Lew Rudin, Primerica's chief executive, Sandy Weill, and Saul Steinberg, Donald Trump and Teddy Forstmann -- plus assorted bigwigs from Chase Manhattan, Merrill Lynch and Bear, Stearns.
Renting a courtside box at Flushing Meadows -- several hundred are available, at $7,800 per season -- is not hassle-free, however. For one thing, there's a 15-year wait. And once you get a box, deciding on the guest list is no easy matter. "There are a lot of people waiting for the phone to ring to be invited," said Mr. Ogdon. His rules for issuing invitations are simple: 75 percent of his guests are clients, 25 percent friends -- a formula that makes it tax deductible -- and all must demonstrate an appreciation of the game.
Securing prized seats is just the first step. The cognoscenti also vie for "Marquee" parking passes -- the closest to the stadium entrance -- so they can leave their BMW's and Mercedes nearby, guarded by uniformed attendants. Once inside, they don't wait in line for popcorn and beer; they flash stadium-issued V.I.P. cards at Slew's Place, a dining room in the U.S. Tennis Association's hospitality tent, or Racquets, a private eating club attached to the stadium. "It's nice to have a cool, comfortable retreat," said Mr. Ogdon. "There comes a time when you need air-conditioning."
The U.S. Open's corporate hospitality tents may be considered lavish by most standards, but some critics find them lacking. "If you were to go to parties every night at this tournament, you'd be bored stiff after three nights," said Mr. Feinstein. "You'd have tried the chicken, the roast beef and the salmon." He contrasts that to Wimbledon and the French Open: "In Europe, every party is a culinary adventure."
Some executives, however, don't care for elaborate entertaining. "A lot of the people I bring are happy to eat hot dogs in the box," said Gene Beard, chief financial officer of the Interpublic Group, a New York advertising agency, who invites only "people who are selling or recommending or following our company's stock." But with their hot dogs, Mr. Beard's guests also get a view: nearby seats have been held by such business celebrities as Henry Kravis and Meshulam Riklis, and the heads of Shearson Lehman, Manufacturers Hanover and J. P. Morgan.
This year, 22 companies paid to be the tournament's corporate sponsors, up from 20 in 1990. For their money -- ranging from $200,000 to more than $1 million -- they get to plaster their logos around the National Tennis Center. "Following the recession and the gulf war, the rise in sponsors defies all logic," said Barbara Perry, a vice president of the International Management Group, the Cleveland-based sports agency. "But corporate America has this infatuation with tennis."
Clairol, for one, pays a premium so its spokeswoman, the actress Linda Evans, can present the women's singles victor with her winning check. "We've always been dedicated to helping women achieve their full potential, and we view the U.S. Open as a good opportunity to show our support," said Nancy Coleman, a Clairol spokeswoman. "You can do a lot with a sponsorship that you can't do with straight advertising."
While companies with boxes invite about 100 guests, corporate sponsors host many more. This year, the Chase Manhattan Bank offered 3,800 tickets to local employees. But access to its hospitality tent is reserved for present and potential big customers.
How much business actually results from all this company spending? Nobody keeps track. But Mr. Ogdon, for one, said the U.S. Open is great for business. "I've never walked away from a session without a new engagement, and one commitment more than pays for the seats," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PRI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (51%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); PRIMERICA INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; CORPORATIONS; UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS) SPORTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); WRITERS (64%); REAL ESTATE (63%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%); THEODORE FORSTMANN (50%); SANDY WEILL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



197 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: SOVIET TURMOIL;
EXPERTS WORRIED OVER FOOD SUPPLY FOR SOVIET WINTER

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Predicting a poor Soviet harvest, and concerned that financing problems may delay Western food aid, Administration and private experts on agriculture are increasingly worried about how the Soviet Union will feed itself this winter.
The consensus among the experts is that the Soviet harvest will be as much as 25 percent smaller than last year's. Crops have been gathered and sold to central authorities late, if at all, partly because of the political turmoil in the wake of the failed coup against President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. 
 In response to an urgent request from the Soviet authorities shortly after the coup plot was foiled, President Bush announced two weeks ago that he would immediately make available $315 million of $500 million in agricultural loan guarantees for the Soviets that had been planned for Oct. 1. The Soviets wanted to start moving grain in September to insure that their antiquated distribution system did not become overloaded in October.
 
No Guarantees Claimed
 But a senior Agriculture Department official said today that no American or foreign bank had yet claimed any of the guarantees, so no grain was being prepared for shipment.
"The President's purpose will not be served if that $315 million is not touched," the official said, adding that Soviet officials had asked the United States for help in financing the deal.
Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the former Soviet Foreign Minister, warned today of possible food riots this winter. "If there's a shortage of food, then of course the people are going to protest," he told the British Broadcasting Corporation. "Last time round it was a palace coup. I don't think that will happen again. But that doesn't mean people won't take to the streets to rebel against chaos in the economy."
 
U.S. Banks Shun Loans
 Last month, before the coup, banking and grain industry executives said that no American banks took part in a $600 million loan to the Soviet Union for grain purchases, although Washington guaranteed almost all of the loan's principal and half of the interest. The only lenders were four European banks that were said to have acted under pressure from their governments.
Banks have been nervous about lending to the Soviet Union since the coup because of worries about a possible Soviet debt rescheduling and squabbling among its republics over whether to divide up the nation's foreign debt.
The Agriculture Department is now considering ways to help the Soviet Union finance the $315 million deal if no banks are willing to take part, the official said, declining to elaborate.
The options could include guaranteeing more of the principal and interest of bank loans or providing direct government loans to the republics or central Government. The guarantees currently cover 98 percent of the principal and the first 4.5 percent points of interest. All of the American loan guarantees are for borrowing by the central Government in Moscow and cannot be used by the republics.
The Agriculture Department is under pressure from Midwestern farmers and grain exporters who want to sell food to the Soviets, while commercial banks have been lobbying for more generous guarantees. But the Agriculture Department has been reluctant to set a precedent for other countries to demand expanded guarantees, which could increase the cost of an already expensive program plagued by loan defaults.
The European Community promised the Soviet Union about $1 billion in food aid and loans at the beginning of this year, but did not begin delivering it until June. Much of the food still remains to be sent because of distribution problems in the Soviet Union, a European Community official said. No additional food aid has been authorized since the coup, she said.
President Bush announced on Monday that he would send two teams of experts to the Soviet Union in the next several weeks to assess its food supply and food distribution problems. The first team left for Moscow on Friday.
Even with last year's record harvest, the transportation and distribution problems endemic to the Soviet system created local shortages. And officials of two large grain-producing republics, Russia and the Ukraine, have said they will insure their own populations are fed before allowing food to go to other republics.
Soviet state farms have become less willing to sell their crops privately for fear of being accused of speculation in the current turmoil, although their alternatives are to sell to an inefficient state system or allow grain to rot in the fields.
 
Poor Crop Predicted
 "It is our expectation that the Soviet harvest will be considerably less than it was last year, and you will recall that even with the dimensions of last year's harvest there were still some problems within the Soviet Union," Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan said at a news conference this week. "So we would anticipate that with a diminished harvest, those problems would be exacerbated even if the relationships between the republics were clearly understood today."
Private experts disagree about whether time may be running out for large-scale shipments.
"If they don't get it moved in the September, October, November time period, it's going to be even harder to move in December, January, February," when the harsh Soviet winter makes the country's transportation problems worse, said Carol G. Brookins, the president of World Perspectives Inc., a Washington agriculture consulting firm.
Bernard Steinweg, a senior vice president at the Continental Grain Company, a New York-based company that is one of the nation's largest grain exporters, was more optimistic. "We've shipped to the Black Sea throughout the winter months," he said today, but added, "Obviously, the more you get in there before the winter months, the better off you are."
 
Installment Due in February
 President Bush authorized $1.5 billion in loan guarantees for the Soviet Union on June 11. The first installment of $600 million was given then to the Soviet authorities, who needed a month to find banks willing to lend.
Four European banks ended up lending the money, led by the Banque Nationale de Paris, which is entirely owned by the French Government.
The final installment of $400 million is scheduled for February.
A broad consensus in favor of large-scale food aid from seven industrialized democracies to the Soviet Union emerged in London on Aug. 29 at a meeting of the personal representatives of the heads of state of the Group of Seven countries.
The United States and Japan have been concerned that food aid may be wasted if it rots on arrival in the Soviet Union for lack of transportation, as reportedly happened to some grain last year. But they nonetheless support aid this year as a way to stave off possible civil disorder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US) BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SHORTAGES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOOD INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); COUPS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



198 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Field of Maybes Is a Spirit Lifter For Democrats

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SIOUX CITY, Iowa, Sept. 7

 BODY:
The race for the Democratic Presidential nomination finally lurched to life in Iowa this weekend with a fledgling class of potential candidates, a lot of full-throated Bush-bashing and an almost palpable relief among Democratic loyalists that their party was fighting back.
"We have, finally, candidates who are willing to take on George Bush and point out what his vulnerabilities are," said John Roehrick, the chairman of the Iowa Democratic Party, as he joined with more than 500 Democrats to cheer on the potential standard-bearers in Sioux City on Friday night. "For far too long we've been silent." 
 After a long, ominously quiet summer in Democratic Presidential politics, this weekend's forum in Iowa, the scene of the first Presidential nominating contest in February, signaled the start of a busy fall.
Over the next month, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska are all expected to announce their Presidential intentions. And all are seen as likely, if not certain, to enter the race, joining former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, who announced his candidacy last spring.
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa told The Associated Press today that he planned to announce his candidacy on Sept. 15.
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California announced the formation of an exploratory committee this week, injecting another variable into the field, while the Rev. Jesse Jackson has yet to announce his decision, although many Democrats expect him to forgo a race in 1992.
Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, has suddenly found himself with several horses to tout after a summer of nonstarters. "The dynamic is shifting rapidly and it appears we will have a strong field by the end of September," he said this week.
This new class of potential candidates, most of them novices to Presidential campaigns, is filling a vacuum created when many of the party's heavyweights decided not to challenge Mr. Bush, who maintains his high ratings in the public opinion polls.
"I always thought that people would see the merit of getting into a race that people didn't expect them to win," said James Ruvolo, a member of the Democratic National Committee from Ohio. "They're somewhat liberated."
At the very least, Mr. Ruvolo argued, "they can raise issues and build a five-year plan," thus positioning themselves for 1996.
 
'Year of the Leapfrog'
 Carter Eskew, a Democratic consultant who has worked for Mr. Harkin, suggested that it was "the year of the leapfrog" in Democratic politics, with rare opportunities for "people who are very appealing" but would not be heard in ordinary years.
The Democratic fund-raising dinner in Sioux City offered candidates and potential candidates a chance to be heard by Democrats from Iowa, Nebraska and South Dakota. Each of the Presidential speakers sought to stake out his market position.
Mr. Tsongas offered himself as the prophet of economic decline, a Democrat who can remake his party's economic philosophy to encourage investment and job creation.
 
'Get Off Our Knees'
 Senator Harkin, addressing a hometown crowd, delivered a rousing version of his Democratic credo, a plea to return to traditional party values, "get off our knees" and take the fight to Mr. Bush.
One of his liveliest lines concerned the Republicans who deride him as another George McGovern, the party's 1972 Presidential nominee, who lost 49 states and who was the keynote speaker last night.
"Charlie Black and Roger Ailes and old George Herbert Walker Bush and J. Danforth Quayle, if they want me to repudiate George McGovern, if they want me to repudiate what he stood for all his life in politics, from Food for Peace to ending the Vietnam War and bringing our troops home, to getting that crook Nixon and his den of thieves out of the White House," Mr. Harkin roared, "if they want me to do that, why they can just go straight to hell." The crowd went wild.
Mr. Clinton argued that the nation had a host of dangerous problems, from lagging educational progress to the failings of the health care system that had to be confronted by national leadership. "The President counts a thousand points of light, but I promise you that leaves a lot of darkness," Mr. Clinton said, referring to Mr. Bush's emphasis on voluntarism to solve domestic problems.
 
Tone of a Centrist
 Still, Mr. Clinton, trying to position himself as the centrist in the race, said the Democrats must couple their belief in an active, problem-solving government with a new emphasis on personal responsiblity. That would apply, he said, both to people at the bottom of the economic ladder and to the people at the top.
"I'm still waiting for George Bush to say the first word about what Salomon Brothers did the other day, about the S.& L. ripoff, about all these things that have happened in America, where people on the top have taken advantage of people on the bottom," Mr. Clinton said.
There were some common strains among the potential candidates, particularly a strict focus on domestic issues and a demand for new Federal spending priorities to reflect the realities of the post-cold-war era.
Mr. Harkin put it starkly: "If you want to continue to spend $160 billion of your money to defend Europe from the Soviet Union, or whatever it's called now," he said, "take your ballot and put it in the Bush box."
He added, "But if you believe, as I believe, that Europe is strong enough and rich enough and powerful enough to defend itself if it wants to, and we can take some of your wealth and we can invest it in new roads and highways and bridges and health care, then you take your ballot and put it in the Democrats' box."
In addition to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Harkin and Mr. Tsongas, the group also heard from Larry Agran, the former mayor of Irvine, Calif., and a dark horse candidate, who wants to cut military spending in half.
Mr. McGovern's keynote address was an unabashed attack on Mr. Bush's foreign policy, including his handling of the war in the Persian Gulf.
Arguing that sanctions should have been given more time to work against Iraq, Mr. McGovern asserted, "After American bombers devastated the vastly overmatched forces of Iraq and its civilian infrastructure, Mr. Bush led the nation in an outpouring of self-congratulatory jingoism that would have been more appropriate in the days of Caesar."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Potential Democratic Presidential candidates at a forum in Sioux City, Iowa on Friday were, from left, Paul E. Tsongas, a former Massachusetts Senator, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. Mr. Tsongas has already announced his candidacy; the others are expected to run. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY H BROWN LTD (66%); IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IOWA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); WILDER, L DOUGLAS (GOV); KERREY, BOB (SEN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); JERRY BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



199 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: BACKTALK;
Thorpe Still Hasn't Received All He Deserved

BYLINE: BY ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
THE Maltese Falcon of sport is a mysterious silver chalice, 2 feet long and 30 pounds, in the form of a Viking ship. Lined with gold and encrusted with jewels, it had once been owned by the czar of Russia. Now it belongs to Jim Thorpe's estate. Or does it?
And where is it? 
 This weekend, as Robert Helmick, president of the United States Olympic Committee, explains the circumstances of his possible conflicts of interest, the silver ship seems to be sailing even further out of sight. "Ironical, isn't it?" said Jim Thorpe's 69-year-old daughter, Grace. "My first reaction was, Dad got $15 a week and they took away all his medals, and now this one got how much, a hundred thousand?"
Grace Thorpe's second reaction was more practical. If Helmick loses his position, she will have to find another well-connected champion to help her hunt for the silver ship and a four-foot-high bronze bust of the King of Sweden. Those two trophies of the 1912 Games were taken from Thorpe along with the gold medals for winning the decathlon and the pentathlon after Olympic officials judged him a professional for having played minor league baseball in 1909.
Grace Thorpe and her brothers and sisters are trying to build a Jim Thorpe Museum in Yale, Okla., where their father owned a home, and where some of them were born. The ship and the bust would not only be prime exhibits, they would stimulate the lagging fund-raising.
There doesn't seem to be a lot of interest in Jim Thorpe, even in this post-"Dances With Wolves" era. But for native Americans particularly, his story still has great resonance.
"He was beaten by the system," said Oren Lyons, a faith keeper of the Iroquois Confederacy, "but he was never tamed. He was his own man."
Lyons, an Onondaga, remembers the middle-aged Jim Thorpe visiting his reservation to watch lacrosse games. Lacrosse, a traditional Indian game, had been banned when Thorpe was at the Carlisle Indian School, as was any language or custom that would divert the natives from total integration into white society.
Yet when the integration occurred, it was never properly credited. Thorpe's accomplishments in baseball, football and track and field were reported to be "natural" rather than the result of any training or hard work. And when King Gustav at the 1912 Stockholm Olympics said, "Sir, you are the greatest athlete in the world," and Thorpe replied "Thanks, King," the exchange marked Thorpe forever as a noble savage.
In a glitch of guilt before the 1984 Los Angeles Games, Olympic officials gave each of Thorpe's surviving children a gold medal. Several weeks ago, Helmick explained to me the reason: "We acknowledged that the rules of the times were unfairly restrictive against minorities and those who were economically disadvantaged. Thorpe got bad counseling. In the spirit of fairness he deserved the medals back."
It was in 1983, while getting those medals, that Grace Thorpe first heard rumors that plans to exhibit the ship and the bust at a Los Angeles museum were canceled because authorities were concerned that "those Indians would come steal the trophies." Further inquiries on her part were stonewalled.
Since then, in calls and correspondence with Helmick, who has been responsive to Grace and to me, we have been told that the International Olympic Committee is preparing a full report on the case. But the trophies, the I.O.C. maintains, were never Jim Thorpe's to keep; they were so-called "traveling trophies," to be held for only four years by each decathlon and pentathlon winner.
"If that's so," asks Grace, "who else had them after Dad? And where are they now? I'd like some facts."
Have they been sold, stolen, lost? Have the precious gems been pried out, the gold melted down, fakes created as replacement? Are they in the basement of the I.O.C. headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland? Where's Sam Spade?
The Jim Thorpe Memorial Foundation in Yale, Okla., has raised about $160,000 so far. It needs to raise $725,000 by next July to qualify for a $150,000 challenge grant from the Mabee Foundation of Tulsa. While the Oklahoma State Historical Society runs a Thorpe exhibit in the original Yale home, the new structure could house the diaries, photographs, uniforms, research materials and other Thorpe memorabilia scattered around the state and the world.
With Helmick's own amateur standing in jeopardy (he must explain his role as a paid consultant to companies and organizations with at least indirect Olympics ties), Grace, a retired congressional aide on Indian affairs, has been searching for other allies. She has even written to that other complex American sports hero, Arnold Schwarzenegger. But she hasn't quite written off Helmick.
"Don't forget, I'm also a part-time judge for the Sac and Fox Nation," Grace said. "The man hasn't been tried yet. I'd just like a few more facts, please."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YALE (OKLAHOMA) UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (70%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1912); ETHICS; OLYMPIC GAMES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MUSEUMS ; PENTATHLON; DECATHLON SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); LACROSSE (78%); BASEBALL (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); ETHICS (71%); CHILDREN (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (56%); 

PERSON: THORPE, JIM (1888-1953); LIPSYTE, ROBERT; THORPE, GRACE; HELMICK, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991



200 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Insolvent Boston Suburb Faces Threat of Takeover

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
The small, impoverished suburban city of Chelsea, made up largely of immigrants and the elderly, is so short of money that it can no longer pay for its own basic services, leaving political leaders and financial experts unsure how to save it or whether it can survive at all.
Gov. William F. Weld on Friday proposed legislation that would put the city of 28,000 people north of here into receivership. 
 Today the state Senate's Local Affairs Committee held an emergency hearing on the bill, and the Governor is expected to meet with legislators next week to lobby for the measure.
The proposal would remove Chelsea's Mayor and replace its government for up to five years with a receiver appointed by the Governor. The receiver would have the authority to break city contracts with unions representing the police, firefighters and teachers, thus potentially saving Chelsea money. But the receiver could not raise taxes, severely limiting his ability to resolve Chelsea's large and chronic budget deficit.
State legislative leaders immediately expressed opposition to the plan. William M. Bulger, president of the state Senate, said that unless provisions were included requiring Chelsea to raise its taxes to help bail itself out, the Legislature might not approve the Governor's plan. Mr. Bulger, a Democrat, pointed out that several Massachusetts cities were on the verge of bankruptcy as a result of the recession and that the Legislature could not afford to save them all.
Referring to raising Chelsea's taxes, Mr. Bulger said: "If they don't do it, why should we take it over? Where will it end if we take it over?"
At today's hearing, Senator Martin Dunne, the Democrat who heads the committee, was one of several speakers who criticized the Governor's proposal. "I just don't see the receiver having the ability to resolve this," said Mr. Dunne, a former Mayor of Holyoke, another city facing severe financial problems.
 
Saying No to Higher Taxes
 Mr. Weld is opposed to tax increases and insists Chelsea be rescued by cutting its budget. A state voter referendum limits the amount of tax increases a community can institute in any given year unless voters override it, and Chelsea voters have repeatedly rejected attempts to override it.
Chelsea has an estimated $9 million deficit in its $48 million budget. The state is already contributing almost 50 percent of the city's budget, and on Wednesday a state-appointed financial control board that has been trying to straighten out Chelsea's finances rejected an interim budget, leaving the city without money to pay its bills.
 
'Not the End'
 Governor Weld, a Republican, described his proposed solution as "radical." It would be the first time a town in Massachusetts has been placed in receivership since the Great Depression.
Within the 1.8 square miles of Chelsea itself, reaction to the proposal ranged from elation to anger.
"This is not the end of our city," said Mayor John Brennan. "It's the beginning of a new Chelsea."
Mayor Brennan has been urging the state to take over the city since last spring, when residents overwhelmingly voted down a tax increase that would have helped close the budget gap.
But Michael Thompson, a 29-year-old firefighter and Chelsea native, said of the receivership plan: "It stinks. After us being here for years, and working hard, the receiver is going to come in here and tell us what do do."
Mr. Thompson expressed fear that a receiver would lay off many of firefighters and reduce the salaries of those who remain.
Despite his anxiety, Mr. Thompson was still at his job on Friday at the Central Fire Station, as were many other municipal employees, even though Chelsea has no money to pay them. But the city's schools, which had been scheduled to reopen Thursday, remain closed. The schools, which have the worst test scores in the state, have been administered by Boston University since 1989.
 
Factors of Decline
 Chelsea's deficit reflects both the state's recession and the city's singular situation. The city is dominated by the Tobin Bridge, an elevated expressway that bisects it and is the main route between Boston and its northern suburbs. The bridge has long lowered property values and contributed to a sense of Chelsea as a dumping ground. The Chelsea River, lined with malodorous oil refineries and chemical plants, is an additional eyesore.
Demographically, Chelsea is largely a city of recent immigrants and the elderly. According to municipal statistics, 43 percent of the city's schoolchildren speak Spanish as a first language, 10 percent speak Khmer and 5 percent Vietnamese.
More than a third of the city's families earn less than $10,000 a year, and, state officials say, Chelsea has the state's highest percentage of residents living below the Federal poverty line. The school budget has been so tight that students often share textbooks.
Chelsea's poverty has resulted in a decline in its tax revenue, which has dropped to $13 million this year from $14.5 million a decade ago. That represents a decrease of more than 40 percent after inflation.
 
A Question of Survival
 Susanne Tompkins, a member of a state-appointed advisory committee that studied Chelsea, said the city's problems, taken together, are just too great for Chelsea to survive.
"We concluded it's not viable as a city," said Ms. Tompkins, who is the research director of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a business-financed watchdog group.
The revenue gap is too great and the city is too poor for any action by a receiver to make it work, she said, adding that even if the receiver laid off many police officers, firefighters and teachers the budget could still not be balanced and maintain a liveable city.
"Our belief on the committee was that the only way out is for the state to provide extraordinary revenue now in loans," Ms. Tompkins said. Then, in the long run, she added, Chelsea would have to try to be annexed to Boston or possibly share its municipal services.
Boston officials have indicated no enthusiasm for annexation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The problem facing Chelsea, a city of 28,000 on the edge of Boston, is partly a reflection of Massachusetts's economic decline and partly a result of its own conditions. The city is dominated by the Tobin Bridge, which has long lowered property values and added to a sense of Chelsea as a dumping ground. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Massachusetts indicating Chelsea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHELSEA (MASS) UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1991

 
