

1 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BRADDOCK JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Rock Bottom For Decades, But Showing Signs of Life

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
BRADDOCK, Pa. -- As Americans wonder just how horrible the economy will become, this tiny steel town offers a perverse message of hope: Things cannot possibly get any worse than they are here.
Hunched on the eastern edge of the Monongahela River only a few miles from bustling Pittsburgh, Braddock is a mix of boarded-up storefronts, houses in advanced stages of collapse and vacant lots.
The state has classified it a ''distressed municipality'' -- bankrupt, more or less -- since the Reagan administration. The tax base is gone. So are most of the residents. The population, about 18,000 after World War II, has declined to less than 3,000. Many of those who remain are unemployed. Real estate prices fell 50 percent in the last year.
''Everyone in the country is asking, 'Where's the bottom?' '' said the mayor, John Fetterman. ''I think we've found it.'' 
Mr. Fetterman is trying to make an asset out of his town's lack of assets, calling it ''a laboratory for solutions to all these maladies starting to knock on the door of every community.'' One of his first acts after being elected mayor in 2005 was to set up, at his own expense, a Web site to publicize Braddock -- if you can call pictures of buildings destroyed by neglect and vandals a form of promotion.
He has encouraged the development of urban farms on empty lots, which employ area youths and feed the community. He started a nonprofit organization to save a handful of properties.
In an earlier era, Braddock was a famed wellspring of industrial might. The steel baron Andrew Carnegie put his first mill in the town, the foundation of an empire that helped build modern America. With the loot and guilt Mr. Carnegie piled up, he also built a library here, the first of more than 1,500 Carnegie libraries in the United States.
Immigrants came to work in the mill, and through ceaseless agitation won union representation that enabled their children -- helped by the library on the hill -- to achieve a better life.
A local boy, Thomas Bell, celebrated this hard-won success in his autobiographical 1941 novel ''Out of This Furnace.'' The story recounts the strivings of three generations in Braddock's mill and their transformation from exploited and maligned ''Hunkies'' from Eastern Europe into full-fledged Americans.
This year, the town will be featured in the film version of another work of art, Cormac McCarthy's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel ''The Road.'' Set in a post-Armageddon America where food is so scarce that many survivors turned to cannibalism, ''The Road'' was shot partially in Braddock.
A town whose story has evolved from building America to making Americans to eating Americans for dinner might seem a hard sell. So Mr. Fetterman, who is paid $150 a month, also promotes Braddock as a place to buy extremely cheap real estate.
Erik and Shannon Gustafson heeded that call. The couple were living in Chicago, where Mr. Gustafson was a part-time commodities trader, when they heard about Braddock last winter. They settled on a two-bedroom house whose owner warned them that it had black mold and was probably a tear-down. Her price: $4,750.
The Gustafsons paid the money and discovered that the mold problem was overstated. ''Space is cheap here,'' said Mr. Gustafson, 30. ''We can afford to focus on our hobbies.'' He is a graphic designer; she is a photographer.
Joel Rice, a furniture maker, bought a 15,000-square-foot former car dealership that he is converting to a showroom, workshop and home, with a greenhouse on the roof. The building cost $70,000, perhaps a tenth of what he would have had to pay for a tiny shop in Oregon, where he was living.
It will take at least two more years to clear the debris and put in new wiring, plumbing and fixtures. But Mr. Rice, 38, is undaunted. ''If all our effort here crashes and burns,'' he said, ''it won't be because we held anything back.''
Unlike many stricken steel towns, Braddock never lost its mill. Part of the U.S. Steel system, it still employs nearly a thousand workers. But they no longer live in town, and the stores followed them to the suburbs. Eventually, only the stubborn and those without resources remained.
''Even the bars and liquor stores closed,'' said Ron Kutnansky, who was born in Braddock in 1953 and lived there and in North Braddock for decades.
A custodian at the University of Pittsburgh, Mr. Kutnansky finally moved out three years ago, after his home was broken into for the third time. ''It's a fairly big shame what happened to Braddock,'' he said. He sold his house for a dollar, no regrets.
As Mr. Kutnansky was leaving, a political novice was starting to shake things up. Mr. Fetterman, now 39, is hard to miss, at 6-foot-8 and 325 pounds, with a shaved head and goatee. He has a master's degree in public policy from Harvard but came to Braddock in 2001 to work for a county youth program. He won the May 2005 Democratic primary by exactly one vote. (He faced no opposition in the general election.)
The mayor wears his commitment to Braddock not on his sleeve but under it: On his right arm are tattooed five dates memorializing killings in Braddock during his time in office. The victims included a man delivering a pizza and a 2-year-old girl who was assaulted and then dropped into a snow-covered playground. She froze to death while trying to walk home.
On his other arm is a large 15104, the town's ZIP code.
This impressed many of the younger residents. ''I was shocked, because he's not even from around here,'' said Jeremy Cannon, 23.
Mr. Fetterman's official powers are limited, partly because of Braddock's ''distressed municipality'' status and partly because it is technically a borough overseen by a borough council. The council president, Jesse Brown, did not return telephone calls for an interview.
Mostly, the mayor offers encouragement, ideas and energy. With the financial help of his father, who owns a commercial insurance agency in York, Pa., he also makes direct and indirect investments in local real estate. He set up the nonprofit organization, Braddock Redux, and gave it $50,000 to buy a former Presbyterian church to serve as a community center.
Last year, Mr. Fetterman gave the organization another $12,000 -- money he says he got by draining his 401(k) -- to buy a duplex and another house next door. The next step was securing a grant from the Buhl Foundation in Pittsburgh to refurbish the buildings for six at-risk teenagers who, at 18, were too old for foster care. Run by two members of AmeriCorps, the group house will open this month.
''Where a lot of people would see a series of negatives -- a bankrupt community with deteriorating housing, foster kids aging out of the system and confronting a lack of employment -- John saw potential,'' said Frederick Thieman, president of the Buhl Foundation.
One of Mr. Fetterman's biggest coups was persuading a small alternative energy company, Fossil Free Fuel, to secure a warehouse on Braddock Avenue.
''This is a very welcoming place for a business, because it has so few,'' said Fossil Free's co-owner, David Rosenstraus.
All this is movement in the right direction, but the uninhabited buildings are still falling down. Dozens are scheduled for demolition. ''If struggling communities don't preserve their architecture,'' Mr. Fetterman said, ''there's no chance of any resurgence down the line.'' Sometime soon, he worries, Braddock will pass the point of no return.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The state has deemed Braddock, Pa., a ''distressed municipality.'' The mayor, John Fetterman, below, with tattoos of the dates of killings during his time in office.
The mill town once had 18,000 residents
 now it has 3,000 and is full of abandoned buildings. The Carrie Furnace, right, on the riverbank, operated until 1982. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA KYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Braddock, Pennsylvania 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011



2 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
FAIRNESS IS QUESTIONED
In Cambodian Trial
As a United Nations-backed tribunal prepares to hold its first trial hearing this month in the deaths of 1.7 million people in Cambodia at the hands of the Khmer Rouge, indecision over how many defendants to try has left many concerned about the tribunal's fairness and independence. PAGE 8
A GRAVE BRINGS CLOSURE
After 30 years, a soldier has broken his silence and assisted in locating the remains of Afghanistan's first president, Sardar Mohammad Daoud Khan, and his family, who were killed during a Communist coup. With the funeral preparations, Afghans hope now to close a chapter of a brutal era. PAGE 6 
CHEERY MARCH IN SOMALIA
Mobs of people poured into the streets of Somalia's capital to demonstrate -- not against the government, but in favor of it. While whistling and singing, many saw the victory of Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed as a window on hope and a possible path out of the violence, after relentless cycles of rebellion, displacement, famine and war. PAGE 10
Peaceful Elections in Iraq 12
National
A FRESH START IN ILLINOIS.
(Or Is It?)
In Illinois, it's a time of celebration for those who viewed Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich as a source of humiliation and a symbol of corruption -- not a novelty in a state with a long history of shady politics. But some remain skeptical that anything will change. PAGE 16
NOWHERE TO GO BUT UP
While Americans ponder how much worse the economy get, people in Braddock, Pa., a tiny steel town a few miles from Pittsburgh, do not, feeling that they've already hit rock bottom. With the town's tax base largely gone and real estate prices down by 50 percent, the mayor is trying to make an asset out of his town's lack of assets. PAGE 16
TRYING TO STAY OPTIMISTIC
Governors across the nation are mirroring President Obama's ''Yes, we can'' optimism in their annual speeches to state lawmakers even though most states face steep budget deficits, suggesting that bad times require big ambition. The state of the state speeches, given by more than 30 governors in January, mark the beginning of legislative sessions. PAGE 20
BIG CIRCUS IS SUED
An American icon is going to court this week. Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey circus is being sued by animal rights groups, which say the circus's elephants are subjected to poor living conditions and cruel training practices. PAGE 22
New York
NEW SENATOR HAILS
From Dynasty in Albany
When she was chosen to fill Hil-
lary Rodham Clinton's Senate
seat, Kirsten E. Gillibrand edged
out the scions of two political
families, the Kennedys and the
Cuomos. But what many New
Yorkers may not know is that
Ms. Gillibrand herself hails from
a dynasty of sorts. Page 24
LANDLORDS GET FLEXIBLE
In this troubled economy, landlords would rather hold on to a good tenant than dish out eviction notices. Just a year ago, the owners of New York's most coveted retail and restaurant spaces held a lot of power to dictate the terms of their leases. Not so anymore, considering the rising rates of vacancies and bankruptcies. Page 23
MIXING SPORTS AND POLITICS
Amid his relentless Sunday press conferences, and assiduous courting of voters outside Manhattan, Representative Anthony D. Weiner carves out as much time as he can for sports, and plays with a skill unusual for an elected official. Page 23
Obituaries
INGEMAR JOHANSSON, 76
A boxer from Sweden, he knocked out Floyd Patterson in 1959 to win the world heavyweight championship, only to lose two more brutal title fights to the American in the next two years. Page 29
Sports
STEEL CURTAIN, PART 2
The Steelers who play today are too young to remember when the team's defense defined greatness in the 1970s. And now with a defensive line ranked in the top three in the league in nearly every major category, a hopeful sign appeared at Heinz Field: Steel Curtain II. PAGE 1
THEN THERE WERE FIVE
With Arizona finally making it to a Super Bowl, maybe there is hope for the Forlorn Five -- Cleveland, Detroit, Houston, Jacksonville and New Orleans, Dave Anderson writes. PAGE 4
A PROUD FATHER
For Larry Fitzgerald Sr., a veteran sportswriter, covering the sudden success of the Arizona Cardinals and the brilliant playoffs by Larry Fitzgerald Jr. is exhilarating not just as a journalist, but as the father of the best wide receiver in the N.F.L today. PAGE 4
HALL OF FAME BECKONS
As a Buffalo Bills defensive end, Bruce Smith won four consecutive American Football Conference title games and lost the Super Bowl each time. He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame on Saturday, during his first year of eligibility.. PAGE 7
WILLIAMS WINS OPEN
Serena Williams swept past Dinara Safira to win her fourth Australian Open singles title and 10th Grand Slam singles title by the lopsided score of 6-0, 6-3. ''It's mine again,'' Williams said in a lilting voice. Page 9
Week in Review
THE JOY OF UPDIKE
Though a brilliant man, John Updike, who died on Tuesday, was not a novelist of ideas, but the great chronicler of middle-class America in the perplexing age that was the 20th century. PAGE 1
THREAT TO PUTIN'S BIG PLANS
Now that the worldwide financial crisis is abruptly ending an oil-driven economic boom in Russia, people are not as lax about the power that Vladimir V. Putin has amassed over the last eight years. PAGE 3
THE NATIONAL PASTIME(S)
The N.F.L. recently sent out a 29-page paper making the case that professional football -- rather than basketball or baseball -- was ''America's choice.'' And while statistically the N.B.A. and the M.L.B. put up a good fight, the only numbers the fans really care about are on the scoreboard. PAGE 5
Editorial
THE NATIVISTS ARE RESTLESS
The relentlessly harsh Republican campaign against immigrants has always hidden a streak of racialist extremism. Now after several high-water years, the Republican tide has gone out, leaving exposed the nativism of fringe right-wingers clinging to what they hope will be a wedge issue. Week in Review, Page 8
Op-ed
FRANK RICH
As the economy collapses, the Republicans' sole ambition is to play petty politics to gum up the works. Week in Review, Page 9
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Throughout the Middle East, there's a whisper of hope that a serious American peace effort by President Obama just might transform the region, with the most promising route forward passing through Syria. Week in Review, Page 10
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
If it is not apparent to you yet, it will be soon: there is no magic bullet for this economic crisis, no magic bailout package, no magic stimulus. We are going to have to learn to live with a lot more uncertainty for a lot longer than our generation has ever experienced. Week in Review, Page 9
GOOD BANK, BAD BANK
Max Holmes, a hedge-fund manager and finance professor, writes that the ''good bank/bad bank'' proposals to save the financial industry could be improved, while the actor Rick Moranis imagines what it would be like to phone one of the ''bad'' banks. Week in Review, Page 10
Sunday Business
A SYMBOL OF CAPITALISM
Falls From Grace
What place is there in this rocky financial environment for a building devoted to nothing but spending? In America's 50-year marriage to the mall, it may be time for couples therapy. Page 1
VACANCIES IN PARADISE
One of the country's wealthiest communities, Fisher Island, Fla., is sitting with about a quarter of its 695 homes on the market, but nobody is buying. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
AN EPIC FILM
In So Many Ways
There's a lot of pressure on Zack Snyder, who has a task of mythic proportions. When he took on the mantle of director for the movie of the comic book ''Watchmen,'' 20 years of expectation and a huge and rabid fan base came along with it. Can a work this big be honored by a film adaptation? Page 1
A 12-MINUTE PARTY
Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band are lined up to perform at the Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday. America, cue your theme music. Page 1
The Magazine
YOU JUST CAN'T KEEP
Them From Jamming
Over the last six years, roller derby has been reborn -- this time as a sport, not theater. Page 18
THE BIG FIX
The biggest challenge for the new administration in Washington is not jolting the economy back to life but transforming the economy when Wall Street and Silicon Valley aren't able to do so. Page 22
2 Kids + 0 Husbands = Family PAGE 30
Travel
I CAME TO THE BAHAMAS
For the Waters
When discussing the Out Islands of the Bahamas, the phrase ''get lost'' loses any negative connotations. A short trip to nothing but beach, sun and water awaits. Page 1
FLIGHT'S DELAYED. COOL!
State of the art amenities, designs from Italian architects with a modernist flair, Europe's tallest wine tower and not a polyester sheet or a sickly yellow carpet in sight. Meet the next generation of airport hotels -- places where you might actually want to stay. Page 6
Book Review
A MASTER OF BUILDINGS,
A Dilettante in Love
Frank Lloyd Wright, like so many visionaries, was made more interesting by his shortcomings rather than his successes. At least that's one way to look at it, and in T. Coraghessan Boyle's new book ''The Women,'' the influential architect is examined through his messy relationships. Page 1
CARROLL'S SECOND LIFE
Known for his nonsense poem about a boy slaying a mythical beast and for his stories about a little girl lost in a land beyond reason, Lewis Carroll has another, less-known side. ''Lewis Carroll in Numberland,'' by Robin Wilson, explores the author's second career -- in mathematics. Page 6

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GOVERNORS (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICS (75%); COUPS (75%); FAMINE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); MAYORS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); REAL ESTATE (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CAMBODIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011



3 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; SKI-DOO MX Z TNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Dashing Through the Snow

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
WOODFORD, Vt.
I OWN two snowmobiles. From this you might conclude that I am a serious snowmobile enthusiast. I am not.
But I am a person whose natural proclivity for impulse purchases intensifies in the dead of winter, when the promise of a motorized respite from the doldrums can cause temporary derangement -- and the purchase of an inexpensive snow machine from the 1970s. Or two.
My older sled is a 1977 Scorpion Range Whip Sting 440. Its rudimentary front suspension relies on leaf springs strapped to rusty skis. Its rear suspension consists of the foam on the seat and about a half-inch of vertical travel built into the track. The motor is a 440-cubic-centimeter two-stroke, and it's not short on power: I once saw an indicated (and perhaps optimistic) 80 miles an hour on a frozen lake. The Sting is an engine with handlebars, and it's generally terrifying. 
One year, the Scorpion was in the shop when a big storm hit. Fed up, I decided simply to buy a more modern machine, which is how I came to own my second sled, a 1979 Arctic Cat Panther 500. It has a purple seat and no brakes. And that's where my snowmobile frame of reference ends: frozen in its tracks three decades ago.
Bombardier Recreational Products, the Quebec-based maker of Sea-Doo watercraft and Ski-Doo snow machines, says 2009 is the 50th anniversary of the invention of the snowmobile. The basis for this claim is the introduction in 1959 of the Bombardier Ski-Doo Snowmobile. Having missed out on the most recent three-fifths of that timeline, I drove to Vermont last year to ride two of the 2009 Ski-Doos and see what's changed since my disco Panther rolled off the Arctic Cat assembly line.
My chosen steed was the new Ski-Doo MXZ TNT 600 H.O. E-TEC, which carries a sticker of $9,649 -- quite a bit more than the $400 I paid for the Scorpion. That convoluted name means that this is the performance MXZ chassis fitted with a new 600 cc direct-injection two-stroke engine.
Two-stroke engines, which fire every time a piston travels to the top of the cylinder (rather than every other engine revolution, as four-stroke engines do) tend to be powerful but inefficient. In the past several years, it looked as if two-strokes -- the smoking, stinking chainsaw motors of your imagination -- were rapidly becoming obsolete. But the arrival of direct fuel injection granted the two-stroke a stay of execution.
With a fuel-cooled computer regulating combustion, the MXZ's fuel economy is 21 miles a gallon, a 15 percent improvement over Ski-Doo's previous fuel-injected motor. The exhaust is clean enough that marine versions of this design, used in Evinrude outboards, won a clean air technology award from the Environmental Protection Agency.
The spark plugs don't need to be changed for three years, and the motor can ''summerize'' itself by fogging the cylinders with oil when you put your machine away in the spring. Another trick: to back up, the motor pauses and then begins running backward, so no reverse gear is needed in the transmission.
The 600 E-TEC also retains that signature two-stroke power output; it has 118 horsepower and is bolted into a machine that weighs only 415 pounds. To put that in perspective, a Corvette ZR1 would need more than 900 horsepower to achieve a similar power-to-weight ratio. I thought my old Scorpion was a terrifying little rocket, but this thing promised to rip my arms out of my sockets.
(I also drove a 1200 cc MXZ with 130 horsepower, but because that machine is heavier and has a four-stroke engine, the performance is about the same.)
The 600 starts with a simple half-pull of the rope -- electric start is eschewed in the name of weight reduction. Because of the precise fuel metering, there's none of the nonsensical crackling you'd expect from a two-stroke. It's quiet but frenetic, sounding more like a hyper four-stroke than an old-school popcorn-popper.
Innocuous idle aside, a few minutes into my ride it's clear that this is one of the hardest-accelerating vehicles I've ever piloted. Pressing open the throttle with my right thumb causes the engine to zing up to its power peak and stay there, courtesy of the continuously variable transmission. Meanwhile, you hang on for dear life before pulling the brake lever as a distant coppice suddenly becomes an immediate obstacle.
However, while the speeds are certainly higher -- I ventured onto a frozen lake and saw 115 m.p.h. on the speedometer -- the drama is lower than it is with my old sleds. In the 1970s, you'd have bounced along a trail at 30 m.p.h. until you came to a corner, at which point your machine would have tipped over and burst into flames. With the new models, you glide along at 50 m.p.h. and don't even notice.
On the way back to base, I and some riders from Ski-Doo were following a trail along power lines when I noticed that I had crested a rise and gone airborne at 40 m.p.h. My instinct was to jump off the snowmobile; on my own sleds that would be the safest way to avoid the explosion of aluminum and fiberglass that would result when they hit the ground. But the MXZ has nine inches of suspension travel at the front and 15 inches for the track, so I summoned the courage of a hundred Todd Palins and braced myself for an impact that never came -- I simply floated to earth and went on my way.
I've got to say, I'm ruined for my beater snowmobiles. Comparing my Scorpion or Panther with the MXZ is like comparing a Wright Brothers' flying machine to an SR-71 Blackbird. It makes me wonder what the snowmobile will look like in another 30 years. Although, given the specter of climate change, the biggest challenge for the snowmobile of the future may be finding anywhere to ride it.
Correction: February 8, 2009, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A snowmobile review last Sunday about the Ski-Doo MXZ TNT 600 H.O. E-TEC misidentified its manufacturer. It is Bombardier Recreational Products, which was bought by private investors in 2003, not Bombardier Inc., a global transportation company that makes aircraft, trains and subway cars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 50-YEAR HERITAGE: The Ski-Doo MXZ TNT 600 H.O. shows how far snowmobiles have come. (pg.AU1)
 TWO STROKES OR FOUR?: Ski-Doo's MXZ TNT 600 H.O. E-TEC, right, with two heavier TNT 1200 4-TECs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA DYER) (pg.AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); SNOWMOBILE MFG (90%); MISC TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: BOMBARDIER INC (54%); BOMBARDIER RECREATIONAL PRODUCTS INC (54%)

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011



4 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Pointing to New Era, U.S. Steps Back as Iraqis Vote

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Riyadh Mohammed contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iraqis across the country voted Saturday in provincial elections that will help shape their future, but regardless of the outcome it is clear that the Americans are already drifting offstage -- and that most Iraqis are ready to see them go.
The signs of mutual disengagement are everywhere. In the days leading up to the elections, it was possible to drive safely from near the Turkish border in the north to Baghdad and on south to Basra, just a few miles from the Persian Gulf -- without seeing an American convoy. In the Green Zone -- once host to the American occupation government, and now the seat of the Iraqi government -- the primary PX is set to close, and the Americans have retreated to their vast, garrisoned new embassy compound. Iraqi soldiers now handle all Green Zone checkpoints.
American helicopters and drones may be in the sky, but Iraqi boots are on the ground. The Americans are already worried about securing the road to Kuwait because soon they will have to start hauling out much of the infrastructure they have built on bases across Iraq.
The end of an era comes not in a single moment, but looking back it has become evident that the mood has changed, power has shifted, the world is not the same. 
In the United States, many Americans view the war as already over, even though more than 140,000 American soldiers remain on Iraqi soil.
President Obama has made it plain that Iraq is not his war; he wants to focus on Afghanistan. In an economic crisis, there is simply not enough money for the country to keep spending hundreds of millions of dollars a day in Iraq.
Any arguments that remain in Washington about the shape and timing of the troop withdrawal this year seem almost moot here, given how much Iraqis want to show they can govern on their own and how much Americans want to hand over responsibility to the Iraqis so they can meet withdrawal deadlines.
This is not to suggest that the war is over. In two provinces, Nineveh and Diyala, counterinsurgency operations are still under way, and the military is tracking signs of activity by Sunni extremist groups in the troubled areas surrounding Baghdad. For now, the rest of the country is mostly calm. The provincial elections will test political stability: whether Iraqis can begin to resolve still festering sectarian and ethnic tensions through the ballot box. The formal process of disengagement started in earnest in November, when the Iraqi Parliament approved a new security agreement with the Americans that sealed the date of departure, by the end of 2011, and almost immediately changed the balance of power.
The outlook of Iraqi citizens has changed as well. They are more confident that their problems are their own, and that the Americans cannot fix them and often have only made matters worse.
''The American military presence brought nothing to our streets but destruction and chaos,'' said Omar al-Dulaimi, 57, a government employee who lives near the Um al-Khoura mosque, one of the largest Sunni places of worship in the capital. ''We had nothing from them but tension and confusion. It's much better for us and for them if they stay in their bases now.''
That resentment of the American presence boiled over in 2007 after Blackwater Security guards opened fire on Iraqi civilians in Nisour Square, killing 17 of them and wounding more than 30. That episode, which was widely publicized in Iraq and abroad, crystallized Iraqi loathing and resentment of what they saw as Americans' casual disregard for Iraqi lives -- and their own powerlessness to hold the Americans to account.
Such anger helped embolden Iraqis to drive a tough bargain on the security agreement, which cemented their sense that they were, at last, seizing control of their own destiny. The Iraqi resolve surprised the Americans, who in the end were forced to accept a hard deadline for departure, give up immunity for contractors like Blackwater and give Iraqis explicit authority over all military operations in the country.
Now, for both sides there is the feeling that something has changed and that whatever happens next, Iraq will not return to the way it was.
''We're going through transition in Iraq at the same time we're going through transition in our forces here,'' said Gen. Ray Odierno, the commanding general for Iraq. ''They will elect new provincial governments. I believe 75 percent to 80 percent of the provincial governments will change, and oh, by the way, we'll begin to reduce our troops' size.''
The shifts are subtle, often unspoken. The American military role now has less to do with protecting Iraqis and more with giving them the psychological reassurance that they can handle what comes their way. The Americans no longer tell the Iraqis what to do, and the Iraqis, especially Iraqi Army officers, no longer look to the Americans for approval. At least that is the case in areas where the fighting has stopped; less so in areas like Mosul where American military might is still required to keep violence at bay.
When General Odierno stopped to inspect a polling center in rural Medaen, south of Baghdad, on Wednesday, his conversation with the Iraqi Army general who oversees the area was respectful, a little formal: two military men exchanging information. It was not exactly a conversation between equals; each knew that the other was from a different world, each knew the Americans have superior arms and training, and each offered the other his observations.
''I see less Sunni-Shia issues than I do a lot of other issues here,'' General Odierno said.
Gen. Qassim al-Maliki nodded. ''We have a lot of Shia voting this time,'' he said. ''We didn't have a lot in the last election,'' he said.
As the American military slowly steps back, the diplomats and the civilians are emerging from the wings. Certainly, this is far from a normal diplomatic relationship. Iraqis entering any area close to the Americans are still subject to multiple humiliating searches and interminable waits. American diplomats cannot yet leave the embassy; they live like virtual prisoners, every movement beyond its gates an armed undertaking. But it is possible for Americans and Iraqis to talk about issues other than sheer survival.
Iraqis, too, are beginning to explore a different kind of relationship, one that no longer looks to the Americans only for protection. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has agreed to finance a substantial scholarship program to send Iraqis to the United States and British Commonwealth countries for study, in an effort to create a better educated professional class. Still, the American era in Iraq is nowhere near a final act. If this were an opera, it would be just past midway in the libretto. While both sides are disconnecting, neither can let go entirely.
The Iraqis need the Americans not just to dampen terrorist activities within the country but to protect them from predatory neighbors. Syria and Iran have interfered here since the invasion, and while the Iraqis are often uncomfortable with how the Americans have reined in these powers, they are reluctant to stop them because they fear their neighbors more.
When American forces pursued insurgents over the Iraqi border into Syria in late October, it was an international incident. Iraq was embarrassed in front of the Arab world. Such incidents are likely to recur and could become much more fraught.
For the United States, Iraq remains a strategic prize close to the Middle East flash points of Israel, Lebanon and Syria as well as Iran and the oil-rich Persian Gulf countries. It is not by chance that the Central Intelligence Agency has its largest station in the world in Baghdad.
It is inescapable that the United States exerts more influence here than in any other oil-producing country -- and will be intent on continuing to do so. Iraq will be eager to demonstrate its independence; the United States will have to rely on levers other than a huge and continuing military presence. This promises considerable tension as each side redefines its relationship.
The elections on Saturday were a step toward a peaceful approach to settling disagreements among factions about the shape of the country. If new governments are seated from north to south and east to west, the United States and Iraq can begin the next act in earnest.
If all goes well, ''The United States will not need big troops here,'' said Jawad al-Bolani, the interior minister, a secular Shiite. ''The Americans need to look at something besides security. Iraq needs America to start a new chapter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Iraqi woman voted in provincial elections on Saturday at a Baghdad school. Over all, the day passed peacefully. (pg.A1)
 At a school in the Adhamiya neighborhood of Baghdad on Saturday, election staff members waited for voters to arrive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); HELICOPTERS (53%); APPROVALS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); TURKEY (92%); KUWAIT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011



5 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: Faced With Fiscal Adversity, Governors Try to Embrace It

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Battered by the worst economic downturn in decades, governors across the country are using their annual speeches to state lawmakers to inject a little Obama-style optimism into the dour debate over budget cuts, and even to suggest that bad times require big ambition.
In Oregon, Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski, a Democrat, is proposing $2 billion in new taxes and fees to pay for children's health care, transportation and investments in renewable energy. In Alaska, Gov. Sarah Palin, a Republican, proposed that half of the state's energy come from renewable sources by 2025. In South Carolina, Gov. Mark Sanford, a Republican and a staunch fiscal conservative, proposed lowering state income taxes by increasing the state cigarette tax to 35 cents a pack, up from 7 cents, the lowest rate in the nation.
The State of the State speeches, given by more than 30 governors in January, mark the beginning of legislative sessions. Governors typically recount accomplishments, outline challenges and propose solutions. Even in good times there are plenty of platitudes. But now it seems that nearly every governor, regardless of political party, has a variation on ''Yes, we can'' as they pick up the role of cheerleader in chief. 
''We're never better than when our backs are against the wall,'' said Gov. Chet Culver of Iowa, a Democrat. ''We stand tall, and we never give up. In Iowa, we keep our promises. Our word is our bond. We stand up for Iowa values. We work together like a team -- to get things done!''
In Idaho, Gov. C. L. Otter, a Republican, asked residents to summon some ''grace and grit.'' In Massachusetts, Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, urged people ''to learn to lean on each other.'' In Nebraska, Gov. Dave Heineman, a Republican, reminded residents that they were ''can-do people.''
Most states face steep budget deficits, sometimes in the billions of dollars. Many governors are proposing vast spending cuts and hiring or wage freezes, and others say tax increases are unavoidable. Most are also hoping for help from a federal stimulus package.
Some are planning unconventional solutions. In Minnesota and Wisconsin, the governors -- one Republican and one Democratic -- went so far as to announce a first-ever plan to share some government operations, like the salting of wintry roads, to save money.
It has been popular, too, to point to other states in worse situations.
''We are fiscally steady,'' said Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican, comparing his state with many others ''crawling to Congress for bailouts.''
Ms. Palin's speech might have been the most anticipated. Ms. Palin, the former Republican nominee for vice president, used her address to reassert herself on Alaskan issues (she proposed ambitious projects like a 500-mile road across the tundra from Fairbanks to Nome, as well as a 7 percent budget reduction) and to try to position herself for her new national audience on issues like the environment.
The governor aspired to more painterly language than she had in past addresses, perhaps to counter criticism of her speaking style during the presidential campaign. She took time, notably, to praise President Obama's ''skill, grace and greatness.''
Following are excerpts from 12 State of the State addresses:
Gov. Sarah Palin
Republican of Alaska
I used to wonder if the occasionally rough edges of politics were unique here under the Great North Star. But I ventured out a bit this past year, and I tell you that as partisan quarrels go, ours really aren't so bad. At our best, we are forthright in our opinions, charitable in our judgments and fair, just like the people who hired us to work for them.
Today, when challenges may seem as high as Mount McKinley, and change as constant as the mighty Yukon flows, and political events send shockwaves through our foundation like the '64 quake -- what do Alaskans do? We climb Denali, we forge the river, we rebuild a stronger foundation on higher ground. When it matters most, lesser differences fall away. Just like family, Alaskans unite.
Gov. Bill Ritter Jr.
Democrat of Colorado
I know what it's like to grow up in a family affected by layoffs. My dad was a dry-land wheat farmer, and he also was a construction worker and heavy equipment operator. There were winters when there wasn't work to be found. There were times when my mother put dinner on the table using food stamps for me and my 11 brothers and sisters. This session, we must do everything we can to help those who are struggling, to keep Coloradans in their jobs, and to keep families in their homes.
Gov. Sonny Perdue
Republican of Georgia
Political mantras aside, cutting more than 10 percent from a budget cannot be achieved by simply cutting waste. While we have worked for six years to do more with less, at some point, in business or in government, it becomes less with less.
The job of budgeting is hard right now, but it's not because the directions are complicated. Like families sitting around their kitchen tables all over Georgia, we are doing what is necessary to balance our checkbook. As I look within, I find something within the human constitution that bounces back, something within this collective American spirit that rebuilds.
I'll never claim to be a Nehemiah; but the prophet's call, ''Let us rebuild the walls,'' rings true today. This is the time to continue building our state, to prepare for the future, to plant the seeds that will enrich our children's inheritance. Together, we will do just that.
Gov. Mitch Daniels
Republican of Indiana
As recently as 2007, an essayist wrote: ''More than any state I know of, Indiana suffers from a crippling inferiority complex. Hoosiers struggle desperately to prove to themselves and the world that they have a higher function than simply filling up the space between Cincinnati and Chicago.''
That's Cincinnati, as in Ohio, with its $7 billion deficit and downgraded credit rating, begging Washington for a massive handout. That's Chicago, as in Illinois, a perennial ethical embarrassment where the government is floating billions in suspect paper just to pay its back bills.
Across America tonight, there are dozens of states that would gladly change places with Indiana. We are fiscally steady; they are crawling to Congress for bailouts. We are building the infrastructure of a prosperous future; they are pleading for money just to maintain the roads and bridges they have now. They are raising state taxes of all kinds, while we are holding the line. Their property taxes are exploding, while ours are coming down for good. Who here feels inferior to that?
Gov. Deval Patrick
Democrat of Massachusetts
Hunkering down may be good advice in a hurricane, but it is not leadership. I choose a politics less about tactics and more about a vision for how to help ordinary people achieve their potential even when times are tough.
We do indeed have unfinished business. But the ''we'' to which I refer is not government alone. It is all of us. The times we are in are tough, but temporary.
While they last, we are going to have to learn to lean on each other, to live as members of a community. That means check in on your elderly neighbor when it's cold to make sure the heat is on. If you have some extra food or can afford a few extra items at the grocery store, drop something off at the local food pantry. Take the coat your kids have outgrown over to a family shelter for a child it might fit just fine. Recycle everything you can.
Gov. Tim Pawlenty
Republican of Minnesota
We're all here because we love and care about Minnesota. Whether it's ice castles or ice fishing; lutefisk or hot dish; ''The Minnesota Rouser'' or ''Purple Rain''; going up north or playing pond hockey down the street; visiting the world's largest prairie chicken or ear of corn; swapping Ole and Lena jokes or trading real-life stories of how almost every one of us has hit a deer with our car. ...
Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle and I have been working together to find state government operations that can be combined or coordinated to save money in both states. You often hear the reference about when ''the lion will lay down with the lamb.'' Well, how about this: In the near future, the Gopher will lie down with the Badger.
Gov. Dave Heineman
Republican of Nebraska
We need only look to the example of how Nebraska accomplished the construction of a new state Capitol in the midst of the worst economic depression of the 20th century for inspiration in managing the situation we face today.
When construction began in 1922, America was at the height of the Roaring Twenties. Economically, times were great. But in 1929, the economy crashed and Nebraskans were faced with a challenging decision. The Capitol's skyscraper tower had not been built, and there was a growing sentiment to stop building.
Nebraskans, however, are can-do people. They knew that the building could be completed by prioritizing the remaining projects. Three years later, the Capitol was completed as designed, crowned by the Sower that has become a cherished symbol of our great state.
This story speaks to our heritage as Nebraskans. We have always been hard-working and practical. We are patient, prudent and judicious. These values are why Nebraska continues to be one of the few states not currently facing a financial crisis. However, the challenges facing other states provide a picture of what could lie ahead for us.
Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski
Democrat of Oregon
If we're going to significantly cut greenhouses gases, we're going to have to think bigger than capping emissions and trading credits. We're also going to have to innovate, educate and invest. That means more research and development into energy efficiency and conservation. Creating a larger science infrastructure that will attract and train scientists and engineers. ...
When it comes to fighting climate change, recently I've been hearing a chorus of naysayers singing a three-part harmony of too costly, too burdensome and too soon. But this chorus is out of tune and out of touch with Oregon's future.
The time has come to put away the old songbook about a healthy environment being an impediment to a steady, strong and sustainable economy. It wasn't true 30 years ago -- and it is not true now.
Gov. Mark Sanford
Republican of South Carolina
Even the Bible talks about the Pharaoh's dream and seven fat cows coming out of the Nile followed by seven skinny cows, so the notion of ups and downs, and of business and economic cycles, represent thinking that has been around for a very long time.
Unfortunately as a nation, and as a state government, this idea has been forgotten by too many for too long. Debt has grown three times faster than the national economy over the last 15 years. Its dangers are something I described in detail at this very State of the State four years ago, yet this proliferation of debt has occurred in government, in business and within households across the country.
The unsustainable march we were on has now come to an end, and so the bottom line is that as a nation, and again by extension as a state, we will face a tremendous de-leveraging. There is no way to avoid this reality.
Gov. Rick Perry
Republican of Texas
Now, I'm a big believer in conservative fiscal approaches, but that doesn't mean it's time to play defense. Texas is strong because we aggressively play offense. In tough times, others see threats; Texans see opportunity.
For example, the nationwide struggles are creating a buyer's market for economic development, so let's be bold and win even more jobs for Texans. When other states are raising taxes, their businesses will be looking elsewhere for tax relief. Let's make sure they find it in Texas. When other states are driving companies away with suffocating layers of regulation, let's welcome them with fewer obstacles.
Gov. Tim Kaine
Democrat of Virginia
Last fall, we restructured prison facilities, closing older and smaller facilities to become more efficient. However, the rate of growth in the state's budget for incarceration has dramatically outpaced other spending items over the past decade.
While we must not make changes that would compromise public safety, we have a responsibility to our citizens and taxpayers to examine the costs and benefits of such dramatic growth. Current law allows the director of the Department of Corrections to release inmates up to 30 days before the end of their term. I have proposed a change that would allow the director the discretion to release inmates convicted of nonviolent crimes up to 90 days early, if warranted by good behavior. This small change will result in significant budget savings without compromising public safety.
Gov. Dave Freudenthal
Democrat of Wyoming
Those of you who have been out moving livestock know what I'm talking about. You're out there and you've got a job to do, and here comes a summer storm. Not time then to forget the livestock and head to the barn. It is time to ride out the storm, get the job done and finish your task.
We are indeed in a storm. The storm is going to affect this state and this country and those that we love and those that we don't know. The only thing we can do is to stay focused, stick with the underlying agenda, limit our expenditures, take advantage of the opportunity to review how we're spending money and become much more focused about the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Let's be bold,'' Gov. Rick Perry told Texas lawmakers in his State of the State address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY CABLUCK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
''We rebuild a stronger foundation,'' Gov. Sarah Palin said in her recent address to the Alaska Legislature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL GRILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ''We are going to have to learn to lean on each other,'' Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts advised residents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHICS: SHIFTS IN THEMES: Number of times the following words were used by the governors who have delivered their State of the State addresses so far: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (54%); INCOME TAX (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); MARK SANFORD (73%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); CHET CULVER (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); DAVE HEINEMAN (58%); TED KULONGOSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011



6 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: If We Buy American, No One Else Will

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS A. IRWIN. 
Douglas A. Irwin, a professor of economics at Dartmouth, is the author of ''Free Trade Under Fire.''

DATELINE: Hanover, N.H. 

 BODY:
 WORLD trade is collapsing. The United States trade deficit dropped sharply in November as imports from the rest of the world plummeted in response to the financial crisis and global recession. United States imports from China, Japan and elsewhere declined at double digit rates. The last thing the world economy needs is for governments to give a further downward shove to trade. Unfortunately, we may be doing just that. 
 Steel industry lobbyists seem to have persuaded the House to insert a ''Buy American'' provision in the stimulus bill it passed last week. This provision requires that preference be given to domestic steel producers in building contracts and other spending. The House bill also requires that the uniforms and other textiles used by the Transportation Security Administration be produced in the United States, and the Senate may broaden such provisions to include many other products.
 That might sound reasonable, but history has shown that Buy American provisions can raise the cost and diminish the effect of a spending package. In rebuilding the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge in the 1990s, the California transit authority complied with state rules mandating the use of domestic steel unless it was at least 25 percent more expensive than imported steel. A domestic bid came in at 23 percent above the foreign bid, and so the more expensive American steel had to be used. Because of the large amount of steel used in the project, California taxpayers had to pay a whopping $400 million more for the bridge. While this is a windfall for a lucky steel company, steel production is capital intensive, and the rule makes less money available for other construction projects that can employ many more workers.
 American manufacturers have ample capacity to fill the new orders that will come as a result of the fiscal stimulus. In addition, other countries are watching closely to see if the crisis becomes a general excuse for the United States to block imports and favor domestic firms. General Electric and Caterpillar have opposed the Buy American provision because they fear it will hurt their ability to win contracts abroad. 
 They're right to be concerned. Once we get through the current economic mess, China, India and other countries are likely to continue their large investments in building projects. If such countries also adopt our preferences for domestic producers, then America will be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for those contracts.
 Remember the golden rule, or the consequences could be severe. When the United States imposed the Smoot-Hawley Tariff in 1930, it helped set off a worldwide movement toward higher tariffs. When everyone tried to restrict imports, the combined effect was a deeper global economic slump. It took decades to undo the accumulated trade restrictions of that period. Let's not make the same mistake again.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Sunday, about ''buy American'' requirements for government spending, included outdated information about the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. While California officials reported in 2004 that a ''buy American'' provision would force taxpayers to spend $400 million more for domestic steel for the bridge, the state later restructured the project and was able to use cheaper imported steel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



7 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; NEW HAVEN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: In New Haven, Holding Out Hope That Landmark Club Reopens

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
 FOR decades, Mory's, a private dining club here, proudly bucked the advance of time. 
 Black-and-white photos of 1920s Yale football squads lined walls. Live a cappella groups, not prerecorded music, provided dining-room entertainment. And the kitchen served Welsh rarebit, whose Worcestershire-flavored cheese on toast evoked Evelyn Waugh more than a hip young-adult eatery.
 But the modern world, it seems, could only be kept out for so long. 
 On Dec. 19, the clapboard-sided York Street building, whose membership includes Yale students, alumni and faculty, fell prey to financial problems worsened by the economic meltdown and closed after 145 years.
 The nonprofit association that has run Mory's since 1912 decided to lay off the club's 32 employees in order to pay its vendors' bills, said Christopher Getman, the association's president. But officials from the association remain hopeful that funding will be found to reopen the club. ''It's really sad for everybody involved,'' said Mr. Getman, a Hamden resident and investment manager who is also a 1964 Yale graduate.
 Mory's has been at four New Haven sites since 1863, when it was formed in a Wooster Street pub, according to a version of its history. It didn't fold easily.
 In June, faced with a steady drop in the number of patrons -- 20 percent fewer this year than just two years ago, club officials say -- Mory's went begging in its ranks for a bailout. 
 But there were not enough takers, said Mr. Getman, adding that soon after, the stock market crashed, sapping the endowment of the club, which has 14,000 members, who need a nod from existing members to get in. Almost all do. 
 Historically, they paid $40 for four years, if they were students, and $275 a year, if they were recent alumni living in the area. But older alums -- those who graduated before 1973 and who make up the bulk of the membership -- could pay just $15 and be set for life, a policy that Mr. Getman said had kept the club's coffers empty.
 If a rescue fund were to be created, Mory's, located in a two-story Greek Revival building with peeling paint, might get a makeover.
 At the top of the list is a plan to build a bar where people can just drop in for a casual drink, Mr. Getman said, if they don't feel like swilling from a silver-plated loving cup filled with orange juice and Champagne, which is one of Mory's signature beverages, and one that's usually enjoyed communally.
 And rarebit, however enduring, might vanish.
 ''No one's wanted to talk about the elephant in the room here, and that's the quality of the food,'' said Mr. Getman, adding that hiring a new chef ''could improve the quality of the product.''
 But the menu may only be partly to blame for Mory's demise. Indeed, the list of explanations can seem as voluminous as the number of names carved in the club's wooden tabletops.
 One is that students don't like the tie-and-jacket dinner dress code, though that was relaxed a decade ago so guests could wear collared shirts to dinner, Mr. Getman said. Another complaint is that when Connecticut raised the drinking age to 21 from 18 in the 1980s, a huge portion of Yale's undergraduates could no longer legally imbibe at Mory's, which hurt business.
 In the last few years, Mory's has faced competition from the growing number of eating and drinking establishments that have cropped up in the downtown. ''If they had kept up with the times, they would probably still be here,'' said James Cuticello, a clerk at J. Press, a clothing store that has been in the city since 1902. ''It was just hard to keep up with the diversity of restaurants.''
 Yet the push to improve downtown New Haven may come at the expense of mainstay businesses, said Kate Hay, who works at Labyrinth Books.
 ''It's another New Haven institution down the tubes,'' said Ms. Hay, citing the closing of the Yankee Doodle coffee shop a year ago and before that, the Yale Co-op bookstore.
 Yalies looking for an off-campus club experience don't have to panic just yet. 
 Eight other member-based organizations have offered to welcome displaced Mory's members into their dining rooms, including the Graduate Club on Elm Street, where patrons can eat prime rib under the gaze of former Yale presidents, whose portraits hang there.
 And at a school where secret societies are still a draw, interest in exclusive organizations may not be dead, according to Aaron Voloj, 22, a first-year law student who enjoyed a steak salad at Mory's just days before it closed. 
 ''I'm disappointed,'' Mr. Voloj said, ''because I was planning on spending more time there next semester.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIGHT TIMES: A shrinking endowment contributed to Mory's closing.
 CLOSED DOORS: Mory's, a New Haven mainstay, has been dark since Dec. 19. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CHEESE (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); LAYOFFS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



8 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Putting Capital At the Top of the Menu

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
THERE it was again. ''Great space -- perfect for you!'' Stephen Starr's BlackBerry was buzzing with a message promoting another tantalizing opportunity. ''Brokers in New York and Philly have come to know me as the space junkie,'' said Mr. Starr, who is the founder of the Starr Restaurant Organization, which owns 19 restaurants in Philadelphia, New York and Atlantic City. ''I get e-mails every day.''
 Mr. Starr's investments have often started with an inspiring space. That's how he came to have two major restaurants in Manhattan, a little more than a block apart. 
 In the spring of 2004, he had just closed the deal for Morimoto, a New York version of his Philadelphia restaurant named for Masaharu Morimoto, the Japanese chef at its helm, when the landlord suggested that he look at another space nearby. 
 Mr. Starr didn't want to open another restaurant so soon, but when he saw the space -- a soaring 16,000-square-foot former Nabisco factory on Ninth Avenue, at 16th Street in the Chelsea neighborhood -- he was hooked. Two years and about $15 million later, it would house Buddakan, a New York outpost of Mr. Starr's Asian-fusion restaurant, also in Philadelphia. 
 ''There are great deals out there; the problem is, banks won't lend you any money,'' Mr. Starr said, referring to the continuing credit crisis. ''It's torturous.'' 
 A lot of restaurateurs and the brokers that cater to them feel the same way. With the economy in a tailspin, restaurants across the country are feeling the pinch, but perhaps nowhere more so than in Manhattan, where the cost of opening and operating a restaurant has soared over the last several years. (Some restaurant neighborhoods that barely existed only a decade ago, such as the meatpacking district, now command rents of $300 to $400 a square foot, according to Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president of Newmark Knight Frank Retail.)
 Even over the holiday season -- typically the busiest and most profitable time of year for restaurants -- business remained weak, as Wall Street firms and other companies canceled or curtailed holiday parties. High-profile restaurants across the city reported that holiday business was off 20 to 40 percent from the previous year, according to the New York City chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association.
 ''The collapse of Wall Street in October was the worst possible time for the restaurant industry,'' said Chris Cannon, the owner of Alto and Convivio, both in Midtown Manhattan. 
 Sales at the high-end Alto declined over the last three months from the previous year, Mr. Cannon said, but business at his other restaurant is booming after it reopened last summer with a new name (Convivio, changed from L'Impero) a lower-priced menu and glowing reviews. Averaging the two, he said, he's even with last year's performance. 
 Mr. Starr, meanwhile, said business at his Manhattan restaurants was solid until December, when sales fell 5 to 9 percent. Now, he said, ''We're all concerned about this quarter.''
 Industry watchers are anticipating a shakeout. Mr. Cannon, for one, predicts that 10 to 15 percent of New York's high-profile restaurants will close in the coming months. ''It's tough,'' he said. ''Everybody's talking to their landlord.''
 Last month, Stephen Hanson, the president and founder of the restaurant group B. R. Guest Restaurants, closed Fiamma, an Italian restaurant in SoHo, and Ruby Foo's, an Asian-themed restaurant on the Upper West Side. The leases for both were scheduled to expire this spring. Fiamma will become a space for private parties and events. 
 Steven M. Kamali, the principal of Steven Kamali Hospitality, a brokerage and consulting firm, says his restaurant listings -- many of them struggling restaurants that still have time left on their leases, a situation he once described as signaling ''imminent death'' -- have surged by 70 percent over the last 90 days. His current roster of 50 or so listings include restaurants in New York City and a few on the East End of Long Island. Mostly, he says, it's smaller businesses with single, standalone restaurants that are in trouble.
 Real estate brokers are bracing for a flood of restaurant properties to come on the market. The fabled Rainbow Room could be next. The landlord, Tishman Speyer Properties, and the Cipriani family, which has operated the Rainbow Room at 30 Rockefeller Center for the last decade, are enmeshed in a messy public battle over rent. At the current rent -- $6 million a year -- potential bidders will have to have deep pockets. 
 The food-friendly Chelsea Market, at 15th Street between Ninth and 10th Avenues, has two potential restaurant spaces available, brokers say. And a cavernous space at the MetLife North Building on Park Avenue, in the same building as the highly successful Eleven Madison Park and Tabla, both part of the Union Square Hospitality Group, has been on the market for nearly a year. The space was once occupied by Credit Suisse.
 Mr. Roseman of Newmark Knight Frank Retail has the listing on a space on 58th Street and Madison Avenue, a prime location near the Four Seasons hotel and the General Motors Building. ''We've had a lot of interest,'' he said, but costs of building out the space have scared away some potential bidders. 
 Mr. Kamali said that his inventory of available space is sitting on the market twice as long as it would have just a couple of years ago. 
 Macklowe Properties has been looking to lease 11,000 square feet of prime restaurant space spread over three levels of its new 30-story tower at 510 Madison Avenue, at 53rd Street, which is expected to be completed this spring. The ground-floor space has 25-foot ceilings, and would probably fetch $300 or more a square foot, brokers say. A Macklowe spokesman said it is in advanced negotiations with a ''veteran operator'' for the entire 11,000 square feet. But the unnamed operator has not yet gone before the local community board for a liquor license, which would suggest a deal is far from done. 
 Still, the downturn offers opportunity for chefs or restaurateurs with access to cash and a good concept. After a breathtaking run-up in rents over the last several years -- which gave rise to the $30 and then $40 entree as restaurants tried to cover their costs -- many landlords are lowering their asking rents. 
 More favorable lease rates and a large pool of talent available for hire add up to ''great opportunities to expand right now,'' said Danny Meyer, the C.E.O. of the Union Square Hospitality Group. High rents are one reason his company hasn't signed a lease for a fine-dining restaurant in five years, he said.
 Mr. Roseman noted that many well-known chefs still did not have a presence in New York. ''You can have the best restaurant in Cincinnati, but you're not that big until you're in New York City,'' he said. Some starry-eyed chefs and restaurateurs are sniffing around, he said, adding, ''There's action.'' 
 There are high-profile openings slated for this year. Shaun Hergatt, the Australian-born chef, is preparing to open SHO Shaun Hergatt, serving ''modern French,'' in the Setai, New York, a new luxury condominium development at 40 Broad Street, in late February. ''I'm looking at this as a long-term plan,'' Mr. Hergatt said. 
 And Mr. Cannon plans to open Marea, an Italian seafood restaurant, at the end of April in the former San Domenico space at 240 Central Park South. 
 Tony May, owner of San Domenico, who vacated his former site after he said the landlord wanted to increase his rent fourfold, is readying a new, larger location on 26th Street near Madison Park. By the time his new San Domenico opens this fall, he says, he hopes the economy will be on the upswing. ''If not, I guess I'll have to talk to my landlord,'' he said, perhaps only half-joking. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Starr, left, says business at his Manhattan restaurants was off in December. Later this month, Shaun Hergatt, the Australian-born chef, below left, plans to open SHO Shaun Hergatt, serving modern French cuisine in the Setai, a new luxury condo downtown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (52%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: CHRIS CANNON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



9 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN NORTH STAMFORD, CONN.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Abundant Stone, Scarce Neighbors

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IF glass and steel define Stamford's business district, with its gleaming high-rises, then the northern section of the city, which is 37 miles from Midtown Manhattan, is all about stone.
 Outcroppings of moss-flecked gneiss jut over roads that hairpin down hills. Slabs dumped by glaciers mark driveways. And instead of wood, smaller stones nicknamed ''New England potatoes'' rib the walls of older homes near the Mianus and Rippowam Rivers.
 So pervasive is the landscape's stoniness that most residents no longer notice, though visitors sometimes marvel at it.
 Carol Huff, a resident, described a guest who was ''convinced that my yard was a religious ceremonial site'' for Native Americans, because, Ms. Huff said, the rocks ''looked like altars.'' (Ms. Huff prefers to think of the site as ''Martini Hill,'' for the beverages enjoyed there during sunsets.) 
 Like many in the neighborhood, she arrived as part of a corporate relocation; she moved here from Hawaii 13 years ago to work for a local telecommunications company.
 In fact, brokers say, as far back as the 1960s the neighborhood was a hot spot for employees of the blue-chip corporations that began ditching Manhattan for Connecticut, where the costs of living were lower.
 Ms. Huff's contemporary house on two acres belongs to that era. Built in 1965, with four bedrooms, three bathrooms and 2,800 square feet of space, it cost $530,000 in 1996 and might sell for $1 million today, even with the economic slowdown, she estimated -- in part because a kitchen renovation added porcelain tile floors and cherry cabinets.
 And that price could be seen as a relative bargain, Ms Huff said, because a home in North Stamford can feel like a second home and primary residence rolled into one.
 ''If you live in an area like this,'' Ms. Huff said, ''you don't need a place in Vermont for the summer or winter.''
 A community of 19.23 square miles, North Stamford has mostly one-acre zoning, in addition to some two- and three-acre parcels; lots are thus larger here than in the rest of the city. There is also ample room for outbuildings like pool houses or cottages. 
 But the remoteness can take getting used to, said Diane Samelson, who at first missed the food delivery services she had relied on in her Greenwich Village one-bedroom.
 ''Now we have a huge flat-panel TV, and we can barbecue,'' Ms. Samelson said in describing her home, a five-bedroom clapboard farmhouse with four and a half baths and 5,000 square feet of space. The property also has a three-stall horse barn, which her husband, Matt, has remade as a workshop.
 The neighbors probably didn't hear any hammering. 
 ''I didn't even realize I had neighbors until the winter,'' she said, ''when the trees got really bare.''
 The home cost $1.1 million in June 2007, though it has since depreciated by 10 percent, at least according to a bank where, Ms. Samelson said, she recently tried to get a home-equity loan.
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Built in 1941, Ms. Samelson's residence may have been one of North Stamford's last farmhouses.
 By the time World War II ended four years later, developers were exploiting North Stamford's potential as a New York bedroom community, attracted to its woodlands and their proximity to the Merritt Parkway, which forms the neighborhood's southern border.
 An early subdivision went up along Wire Mill Road on land owned by Gutzon Borglum, the sculptor of Mount Rushmore. Those modest ranch homes, some with board-and-batten siding, still line Red Fox and Big Oak Roads, which have no sidewalks.
 Older homes can be found along the two busy major north-south routes cleaving North Stamford, Long Ridge and High Ridge Roads -- more commonly known as ''the Ridges.''
 One remarkable enclave is the historic district clustered around Old Long Ridge Road. Its painted Italianates, with rooftop belvederes resembling glass drawer pulls, complement a pair of Greek Revival churches.
 Teardowns haven't been as prevalent in North Stamford as in some nearby communities, but McMansion-type homes did sprout, along with scores of cul-de-sacs. Newer houses on Sunset Court, for example, display trendy architectural flourishes like gables, decks and skylights. Predictably, there are also plenty of stone walls.
 But despite such building booms, the neighborhood seems to have stayed conservation-minded. About 23 percent of its land, or 2,797 of 12,435 acres -- including land trusts, parks and water company holdings around three reservoirs -- is protected open space, according to the South Western Regional Planning Agency. 
 Though the percentage is lower than in Greenwich, it puts North Stamford ahead of Darien, Wilton and Norwalk, said Alex Karman, an agency planner.
 There are no condominiums in the neighborhood, but there are rental properties -- most, these days, are being offered for rent because their owners have given up hope of selling in the downturn, brokers say.
 As of late January, there were 34 houses for rent, according to Jodi Boxer, an associate partner with Keller Williams Realty. Rental inventory has roughly tripled in three years, she said.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Like other areas, North Stamford has experienced a decline in both sales and prices. 
 In 2006, at the market's height, 194 homes sold, for an average price of $1.02 million, while in 2008, 128 homes sold, for an average price of $948,000, according to data from the Greater Fairfield County Consolidated Multiple Listings Service.
 That 7 percent price drop is less than reported in other parts of the state, but it may be misleading, Ms. Boxer said. It is a yearlong average, and tends to camouflage the extent of the plunge that occurred in the last few months of 2008.
 In that September-to-December period, prices tumbled 15 percent, Ms. Boxer estimated.
 Similarly, the average length of time on the market has stretched further than statistics indicate, she said. The official length last year was 105 days, or about three months -- up from 83 days in 2006. But what those numbers don't reflect is that sellers sometimes switch their listings, serially, from broker to broker.
 ''It's deceptive,'' she said, ''because we know that the market time has increased to six months.''
 Still, many are drawn by Connecticut's property taxes, which can be half of those in Westchester, brokers say.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Northeast Elementary School has an enrollment of 794. On state Mastery Tests last year, 82 percent of fourth-graders demonstrated proficiency in math, 70 percent in reading and 85 percent in writing, versus 85, 66 and 86 statewide.
 Turn of River Middle School has 595 students; Westhill High School has 2,283. The high school offers 24 varsity sports and 24 Advanced Placement classes, including environmental science and microeconomics.
 Last year, 82 percent of students went on to a college, said Sarah Arnold, a spokeswoman. Average scores on the SAT were 499 in reading, 509 in math and 505 in writing, versus 507, 503 and 506 statewide.
 There are several private institutions in the area, like the Mead and Long Ridge Schools. But the city's public schools are anticipating a 1.3 percent attendance increase next year, as recession-battered parents opt for the cheaper alternative, Ms. Arnold said.
 WHAT TO DO
 At this time of year, North Stamford's country clubs are snow-covered and pool clubs shuttered.
 But brave dog-owners still stroll the paths at the Bartlett Arboretum and Gardens, whose 91-acre grounds are open year-round. It offers classes on subjects like skunk cabbage (Feb. 5) and ferns (Feb. 12).
 The slate-roofed Tudor building at the Stamford Museum and Nature Center, formerly the weekend home of the designer Henri Bendel, houses Borglum sketches and some sculptures, too. 
 The Long Ridge Tavern, a collection of former barns and homes, serves ribs and mashed potatoes in a fire-warmed barroom. The Lakeside Diner makes popular ''wedges'' -- as hero-style sandwiches are known in the region.
 THE COMMUTE
 Three bus lines offer trips to Stamford's train station; a 31-day bus pass costs $45. Each weekday from 7 to 8 a.m., 10 trains run to Grand Central Terminal; the quickest takes 48 minutes. Monthly passes cost $258.72 online.
 THE HISTORY
 In the early 19th century, Simon Ingersoll lived on Farms Road in the 1721 Block House, whose walls are of cut stone. In addition to inventing a steam car, Ingersoll created a rock drill that led to the formation of Ingersoll Rand, which makes mining equipment, said Ronald Marcus, librarian of the Stamford Historical Society. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ELEMENTS: A house on Webbs Hill Road in North Stamford. As one resident put it, ''If you live in an area like this, you don't need a place in Vermont for the summer or winter.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of North Stamford. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); COST OF LIVING (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



10 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Despite the Recession, It's Still Party Time

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla. 

 BODY:
Outside Maxim's Super Bowl party Friday night, on the other side of the velvet rope, police officers and burly bouncers shooed unwelcome visitors. They also guarded the door, for a few hours, from a troubled economy. 
 ''It's a great time to throw a party,'' James Kaminsky, the magazine's editorial director, said. ''Everyone is depressed, but everyone in here is happy. That's what a good party is. It's not about saving the world. It's not about saving the whales. It's about having a good time.''
 He stood in the hallway of the Ritz Ybor, outside a high-ceilinged room that throbbed to a bass beat. It was draped in red velvet and decorated with fit young women dancing in clingy yellow dresses. The stars of Salt-n-Pepa were among the celebrities in the crowd, and minutes before Kaminsky spoke, security guards caught a woman in a stall of the men's restroom snorting something that was clearly neither salt nor pepper.
 Sure, the economy is battered, and Maxim has taken its lumps, too. Its parent, Alpha Media Group, which bought the license for the American version of Maxim in 2007 and also owns Blender magazine, had its credit rating downgraded in the past six months. Competitors like FHM and Stuff have folded. 
 But Maxim did something many others were afraid to do this Super Bowl week: It partied like it was 2008. 
 ''We wouldn't be having the party if it didn't make economic sense for us,'' Glenn Rosenbloom, Alpha Media's co-chief executive, said. 
 Magazines like Playboy and Sports Illustrated canceled their annual Super Bowl affairs, and other signs of economic malaise were everywhere. On Friday afternoon, hotel rooms could be had for $100 a night not far from Raymond James Stadium. And during his state-of-the-league address, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell discussed the era's ''tremendous amount of uncertainty'' -- so unsettled that the league and several of its teams have dismissed employees, as if they were no different from Microsoft or Home Depot.
 But this was Super Bowl week, and some people were determined not to forget that, provided they could remember anything in the morning. They were not going to let a recession get in the way of tradition. 
 ''Tough times call for a great party,'' Kaminsky said. 
 Around him swirled the live-action version of his magazine -- pages worth of women and drinks and more women and music and celebrities delivered in party form to an attentive core audience of 20-something men wearing untucked dress shirts and generous portions of hair gel. Maxim brought in about 350 women from area talent and modeling agencies to assist the male-to-female ratio, which is common at parties during the testosterone-rich Super Bowl week.
 ''If you deliver the fantasy a little bit, it makes everybody feel a little bit better about their lives,'' Kaminsky said.
 Maxim was not alone in its defiance to the economy. ESPN the Magazine gave a competing party on Friday night, inside a huge tent that somehow managed to capture Little Steven Van Zandt and Lil' Wayne, Lindsay Lohan, Vinny Testaverde and Jared of Subway sandwich fame simultaneously under one canopy, as if popular culture had just coughed up something unimaginable. 
 Like everyone else accustomed to past Super Bowl excesses, executives at ESPN pondered the best way to face a scrambled new order. Do you give the party? If so, do you tone it down? What kind of message should be sent? 
 ''How do you change, or can you change, the psychology of such a downturn?'' said Gary Hoenig, general manager of ESPN Publishing, with admitted ambivalence. ''Is the positive thing to do something like this, or is there anything you can do that sort of changes the framework? Or are you sort of stuck with this: 'Gee, lots of people are losing their jobs. I've got to stay below the surface, I can't overmarket, I can't visibly do anything that disturbs the funereal mood we're in?' ''
 ESPN answered with a pulsating party. Sprinkled through the scene were women dancing tirelessly, alone on pedestals. They wore referee socks, short shorts, eye black and cropped football jerseys -- a Saint here, a Patriot there. Soon, they danced to Wyclef Jean, performing onstage. 
 But little comes these days without compromise. Hoenig said that ESPN the Magazine's annual parties at the N.B.A. All-Star Game and to mark the release of an ''athletes'' special issue would not take place this year.
 The remnants of the Super Bowl party scene were not all that stiffly faced up to uncertainty. Tampa was awarded Super Bowl XLIII in 2005, when no one imagined the soured environment in which the game would be played. 
 Yet the Tampa Bay Super Bowl Host Committee raised $7 million in private donations to meet its $11 million budget -- more than twice its budget when the city last hosted the Super Bowl eight years ago.
 It was not about to let the economy water down its Super Bowl plans or diminish Tampa's chance to sell itself. Sure, it was tough timing for the host. Or maybe it was perfect timing, a booster shot at the neediest moment.
 ''We are in a recession,'' Mayor Pam Iorio said. ''We're either in a recession getting to host the Super Bowl, or in a recession without a Super Bowl. Those are the two options. Which would you rather have?''
 Still, the recession dealt an unusually difficult hand to the Super Bowl, which has long seemed immune to anything more serious than a halftime-show wardrobe-malfunction controversy.
 NBC, the game's broadcaster, struggled to sell its 30-second commercial spots. The number of credentialed news representatives fell from the previous year, maybe for the first time. The N.F.L. dropped the price of 1,000 tickets to $500, from $800. 
 The annual Friday night Commissioner's Party, which has featured circus performers and wild animals, had two sand-sculpture artists instead. The previous three parties had taken place at the Henry Ford Museum in suburban Detroit, at Jungle Island in Miami and at an airplane hangar and museum outside Phoenix. Last year's party had the feel of a 1940s-era U.S.O. celebration featuring the swing band Big Bad Voodoo Daddy. This year, the party was in the Tampa Convention Center, with a cover band.
 As Maxim's Kaminsky said, ''2009 is the wrong time for idiotic excess.'' So even the Maxim party was limited to 1,400 guests, half the usual number. But that, along with fewer parties taking place, only served to make it more exclusive. 
 It meant more people were left standing on the outside, beyond the velvet rope, shivering in the unusually cool air and the stiff breeze of recession. They just wanted to come in from the elements, if only for a little while. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maxim magazine invited 1,400 guests, half the usual number, to its Super Bowl party Friday night at the Ritz Ybor in Tampa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARITY BECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WOMEN (73%); MEN (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TALENT AGENTS (68%); DISMISSALS (63%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (51%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



11 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Super Bowl Suits

BYLINE: By JOE QUEENAN. 
Joe Queenan's memoir, ''Closing Time,'' will be published in April.

 BODY:
THE BILLION DOLLAR GAME
 Behind the Scenes of the Greatest Day in American Sport -- Super Bowl Sunday
 By Allen St. John
 264 pp. Doubleday. $24.95
 With 80 seconds remaining in last year's Super Bowl, the New York Giants' quarterback, Eli Manning, lofted a gift-wrapped interception to the New England Patriots' All-Pro cornerback Asante Samuel. Had Samuel hung on to the ball, the Patriots would have been the first team in the history of the National Football League to end its season with a 19-0 record, and Manning would not have become the second quarterback in his family to win the game's Most Valuable Player award. But Samuel let the ball bounce off his fingers, and one play later Manning heaved a desperation pass to David Tyree, who thereupon made the most amazing catch ever. Seconds later, the Giants had pulled off arguably the greatest of all N.F.L. upsets. Though I myself would not argue. 
 Samuel's name does not appear in Allen St. John's book ''The Billion Dollar Game: Behind the Scenes of the Greatest Day in American Sport -- Super Bowl Sunday,'' nor is his muffed interception described. This is because the author, a sports columnist for The Wall Street Journal, has other fish to fry. ''The Billion Dollar Game'' is a tribute to the people who bring us the game, the people who broadcast the game, the people who market beer during the game and the people who hold parties before the game. The people who actually play the game are more of a sideshow. It is a story, St. John insists, ''that's never been told before,'' perhaps because most sports fans would rather read about Eli Manning and Asante Samuel, and most sportswriters would rather write about them. 
 The problem the author has set himself is that young men in uniforms are a million -- no, make that a billion -- times more interesting than middle-aged men in suits, just as books about Tom Brady are more interesting than books about Marcia Brady. In taking us behind the scenes of the most thrilling event in American sports, where he will slobber over a host of powerful white men, St. John has almost nothing to say about the scores of black men who supply most of the actual thrills. It's like paying homage to the guys who built the Colosseum, but giving short shrift to the gladiators who brought in the big crowds. 
 The best parts of ''The Billion Dollar Game'' occur early, when St. John describes how the stadium where Super Bowl XLII was played got built in the first place. The University of Phoenix Stadium is home to the perennially crummy (at least until this year) Arizona Cardinals. Rarely competitive -- they did not win a single playoff game between 1947 and 1998 -- the Cardinals almost never sold out games in their former stadium. But they do play in a temperate climate, and because the Super Bowl usually takes place in the Sun Belt, the Cardinals' cunning ownership came up with the idea of building a stadium whose principal function was to play host not to regular-season games for the dismal home team but to periodic Super Bowls showcasing glamorous squads from out of town. Because the local economic impact of the game may reach $400 million by some estimates, a dud organization can make much more money holding a Super Bowl every five years or so than a bunch of Cardinals games on any given Sunday. The Cardinals, playing in their first Super Bowl today, will do so in Tampa, Fla. 
 The chapters about the stadium itself are easily the most informative, in part because the architect, Peter Eisenman (a Giants fan), is a lot more interesting than the assorted television executives and producers, party planners, advertising wizards and broadcasters whom St. John will profile later on. ''Architects don't have many ideas,'' Eisenman confides. Maybe, but that's still a whole lot more ideas than party planners, cameramen or most sportswriters have. Once the stadium story has been told, St. John moves on to the arcane worlds of camera angles, instant replays, cutting-edge Budweiser ads and halftime shows. He also includes not one, but two extended sections about fabulous Super Bowl parties he attended. At one of them, he almost met Tom Arnold. Honest. 
 The author does feed the reader tidbits of information that may have appeared elsewhere but are usefully consolidated here. There is, he reports, no extant copy of the Super Bowl I television broadcast; nobody bothered to keep the tapes. More Americans watched the Super Bowl last year than voted in the 2004 presidential election. Super Bowl ratings vary little from year to year, no matter who plays. Cowboys fans do not like to travel; Steelers fans do. But on other vexing issues he is maddeningly inconclusive. Does domestic violence increase on Super Bowl Sunday? Unclear. Is it true that a billion people watch the game worldwide? Probably not. What is the economic impact of the game on the host city? Some studies say $400 million; others say closer to zero. One thing is certain: Radiohead is not on the short list of potential halftime entertainers. Which probably means Amy Winehouse is out as well. 
 St. John, who wrote ''The Mad Dog 100'' and ''The Mad Dog Hall of Fame'' with the sports radio fixture Chris Russo, will not make anyone forget Red Smith or Grantland Rice. Addicted to cliches -- ''Make no mistake,'' ''Form follows function,'' ''defining moment,'' ''fraught with peril,'' ''edgy'' and the overmatched scribe's all-purpose banality, ''unique perspective'' -- he periodically drops in an extraneous reference to Enrico Fermi or F. Scott Fitzgerald to doll up his off-the-rack prose. Say what you want about F. Scott Fitzgerald, he never wrote sentences like ''It was a party planner's Perfect Storm.'' Neither did Enrico Fermi. 
 St. John professes to have corralled ''unprecedented behind-the-scenes access'' to the ''movers and shakers'' -- those ''at the top of the food chain'' -- responsible for the Super Bowl. But as with many journalists provided such access, the trade-off seems to have been an agreement signed in blood to conduct the interviews in the genuflective mode. A TV producer and a director are ''at the very top of their game.'' The style of camera work used by NFL Films is influenced by Picasso and Braque. The Fox Sports producer Richie Zyontz -- he of the ''unique worldview'' -- ''is like a law professor utilizing the Socratic method.'' Smitten by big shots, St. John asserts that Troy Aikman -- the bringer of ''gravitas'' to the broadcasting booth -- and the snide, yappy Joe Buck ''have emerged as a surprisingly good team'' since Cris Collinsworth left them, gliding past the fact that Collinsworth is viewed by many as the most insightful and charismatic analyst in pro football, while Aikman is dismissed by his detractors as being slightly more exciting than yeast. 
 The real capper is when St. John starts fawning over Hugh Hefner, host of the finest Super Bowl party known to man, musing: ''The question isn't whether Hef is the hippest octogenarian on the planet. It's whether he has any competition at all.'' This is the kind of writing that gives craven sycophancy a bad name. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Super Bowl XLII, between the New York Giants and the New England Patriots, Feb. 3, 2008. (GIGAPAN PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MEN (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); WRITERS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (77%) NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Billion Dollar Game, The (Book)>; Billion Dollar Game, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



12 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Drawn to the Forest

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
INWOOD, at the northernmost tip of Manhattan Island, wasn't a neighborhood that Jessica O'Hara-Baker and Thomas Lewin knew anything about, but they were drawn there by the relatively low rents. 
 From the moment they visited, however, they resolved not to look anywhere else. ''I didn't know there was a forest right there!'' said Ms. O'Hara-Baker, who was captivated by the 196-acre Inwood Hill Park. ''It is completely untamed. As much as I love New York, I miss sky.'' 
 Ms. O'Hara-Baker, 25, who is from Ventura, Calif., and Mr. Lewin, 23, a Philadelphia native, met three years ago through friends. Since her senior year at New York University, she had been living with three roommates on the Upper East Side. She paid $650 for her share of the monthly rent. 
 ''It was sort of shoddy,'' she said. The apartment, once a large one-bedroom, was divided into a three-bedroom after the former tenant died. The landlord explained his philosophy: ''No one needs a living room in New York -- all you need to do is sleep,'' Ms. O'Hara-Baker said. 
 The lack of a living room reduced the pleasure of living with friends. ''What are you going to do -- hang out on each other's beds?'' she said. ''It was not conducive to spending time with people.'' 
 Mr. Lewin, an audio engineer, lived in dormitories as a Columbia University student and later moved with two friends to Washington Heights. He had a small bedroom, which held all of the apartment's closets. His share was $750. 
 Last summer, the couple began hunting for a place of their own. Mr. Lewin had grown tired of cleaning up after his roommates. Besides, he had closets and Ms. O'Hara-Baker, an actor and singer, didn't. Oftentimes, she inadvertently left her audition stuff -- publicity photos, sheet music, clothing -- at his place.
 They wanted a good ''price-to-size ratio,'' Mr. Lewin said, which meant $1,400 to $1,500 for a two-bedroom. The second bedroom would be an office and a guest room for their many visiting relatives and friends. 
 They spotted a listing on Craigslist for a $1,450 two-bedroom on Seaman Avenue in Inwood.
 Ms. O'Hara-Baker had been to the neighborhood once, for the Inwood Shakespeare Festival, but that was at night and she got no sense of place. The streets were numbered ''200-something,'' she said. ''Is that even in Manhattan anymore?'' 
 The apartment was in a lovely prewar building. ''My jaw dropped,'' she said. ''I fell in love. Immediately, I realized that in this neighborhood we are going to get more bang for our buck.'' 
 But the agent told them they were unlikely to get the apartment. ''We were up against people who had been in the work force longer, with more time to build up their savings,'' Mr. Lewin said. 
 They were disturbed to be turned down because of ''something we could do nothing about,'' Ms. O'Hara-Baker said. ''We were thinking, 'Here's this place that's totally within our price range, and they want to give it to people who make even more money.' '' 
 Another Seaman Avenue possibility arose. A two-bedroom, also for $1,450, was on the top floor of a walk-up building. 
 ''I'm sure the fifth-floor walk-up thing is annoying, but we like looking for ways to put more fitness in our lives,'' Ms. O'Hara-Baker said. ''People deal with fifth-floor walk-ups all the time.''
 They wondered why the place had been vacant for weeks. Was the management company picky? Was the apartment awaiting inspection? They were unable to find out. The management company was unresponsive. 
 The couple briefly considered looking at one-bedrooms or venturing east of Broadway, which was more commercial. 
 Robert Hogan, an agent at Citi Habitats, showed them a two-bedroom for $1,400 on busy Arden Street. The apartment was so nice that they had second thoughts about the need for proximity to Inwood Hill Park. ''We reminded ourselves that we wanted to have the park right there,'' Ms. O'Hara-Baker said.
 There seemed to be little available. The market in Inwood tends to be seasonal, Mr. Hogan said, with many leases turning over in rhythm with the school year.
 But prices have stayed relatively flat despite the economic downturn. ''Up there, it is a deal all year round,'' Mr. Hogan said, ''so the prices haven't dropped as much'' as in other neighborhoods. 
 A two-bedroom apartment on Vermilyea Avenue was only $1,200. The low price might have prompted them to reconsider their need to be near the park. But a resident of the building ended up getting the place, leaving a less desirable vacancy: a one-bedroom for $1,400. 
 ''We were skeptical at this point and felt really defeated,'' Ms. O'Hara-Baker said. 
 But Mr. Hogan told them that a friend, Ray Adornetto, an agent at Adina Equities, had a two-bedroom vacancy for $1,295, in an Art Deco building on West 207th Street. 
 They loved the apartment, which felt comfortable, homey and perfectly situated. To the west was Inwood Hill Park. To the east was the A train express stop, as well as a stop for the speedy new Select Bus, for which people pay their fare at pay stations before boarding. Ms. O'Hara-Baker takes it for the first leg of her trip to her part-time job at Carnegie Hill Neighbors, a landmarks preservation group. 
 The place had a horrible paint scheme in ''Barney colors'' -- green and purple. The dishwasher, oddly, was stuffed with plastic grocery bags from C-Town and Fine Fare, the two local supermarkets. 
 The couple said they would paint it themselves for a reduction in rent. So, last fall, they took the apartment for $1,275, paying a broker's fee of 15 percent of a year's rent, or just under $2,300. 
 ''A weight lifted off my shoulders,'' Mr. Lewin said. ''It was six weeks of nail-biting, and then we landed the best apartment. We realized how old this building must be because the layer of paint on the molding is about a quarter-inch thick.'' They added a layer of their own. 
 As expected, the two love the neighborhood. One happy surprise was the Saturday Greenmarket on Isham Street, where they buy milk in glass bottles returnable for recycling. 
 Ms. O'Hara-Baker runs and hikes in the forest; in the winter, the Hudson River is visible through the trees. In good weather, Mr. Lewin rides his bicycle to his SoHo office, a 13-mile trip along the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway. They don't use enough dishes to justify running the dishwasher, so it functions as a drying rack. 
 They even met an upstairs neighbor who formerly lived in their unit, paying around $1,500, so they feel they got an especially good deal. 
 ''Everything in the apartment is the way we want it,'' Mr. Lewin said, ''and if it is messy, that is our own fault and we know it. Things ended up working out for the best. Jess and I are very fortunate and very grateful.'' 
 E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Lewin and Jessica O'Hara-Baker moved into their new apartment last fall.
An affordable two-bedroom on Arden Street was far from Inwood Hill Park.
The management company for another Seaman Avenue building was unresponsive.
 A building on Seaman Avenue in Inwood was picky about finances.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); MUSIC (61%); THEATER (61%); FESTIVALS (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



13 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; DINING GREENWICH; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Bistro, or Call It a Cafe, It's Winning Either Way

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
GAIA, one of my favorite restaurants in recent years, has closed. But in its place, on the barely changed premises, the owners of Gaia have opened a new place, Morello Bistro, and it's quite good. 
 While I would quibble about the word bistro (which seems almost ubiquitous today) and call it instead a cafe, Morello is less formal than Gaia was. The setting is a beautiful landmark interior designed by Rafael Guastavino Jr., son of a Catalan architect who invented a golden amber tile that is formed here into arches, pillars and ceilings. The net effect is sunny by day, softly romantic in the evening. It remains, in my view, one of the loveliest restaurant settings in the state. Morello's has added several clusters of hand-blown white glass chandeliers that command attention on their own.
 The food itself flows from an occasional miss to very good indeed. As sometimes happens, my lunch one day was near-perfect, dinner a week later not so much. Often, as in this case, much depends on what one orders. At lunch three of us chose a number of appetizers and just a couple of entrees. 
 Starters were uniformly tasty. Fried calamari (tender, light to the taste, with a thin, ultralight batter, salty and crisp) came in just the right-size portion -- large enough to pique the appetite, not so large as to stifle it. The squid were served with two dips: tomato (a tad too chilled) and lemon aioli (perky and just right).
 Also delicious were butternut squash soup (golden and velvety) and hamachi crudo (thin slices of buttery-delicate yellowfin tuna in a subtle citrus extra-virgin olive oil dip). Two huge, lightly browned sea scallops, ordered as an entree, were served in a pool of celery root puree awash in black trumpet mushrooms -- a succulently flawless dish.
 As an entree I chose a cloudlike house-made potato gnocchi (punctuated with bits of pancetta and wild mushrooms). Another choice, a round six-ounce beef fillet with caramelized onions, grainy mustard and crunchy-crisp fries, was everything one might wish for.
 Many lunch dishes are also on the dinner menu. Sometimes the accouterments differ. The beef fillet at dinner, for instance, came with a piquant green peppercorn sauce, crushed potatoes and roasted tomato and proved just as tasty as at lunch.
 Overall, our dinner starters didn't fare as well. Fonduta di formaggi, like a sharp fondue with fontina cheese as a dip for ultrathin crisps of toasted bread, was first-rate. Mushroom caps, stuffed with Swiss chard and pecorino Toscano, were unexceptional. Baked clams had tangy prosciutto-flecked bread crumbs, but the tough clams were inedible. 
 The oddest experience came with beef crudo. ''Is this like carpaccio?'' I inquired of the waiter, knowing it to be raw (crudo), but thinking it might be a beef version of the sushilike hamachi crudo I had enjoyed at lunch. ''Exactly,'' he said. I ordered it and it turned out to be steak tartare, very good quality chopped beef seasoned with mustard, shallots and parsley. ''Why did you say it was like carpaccio?'' I asked the waiter later. ''I wasn't thinking, I guess,'' was his response -- not the answer one expects in as sharp a place as Morello.
 Our dinner entrees were a mixed bag. On the plus side: rare-as-requested rack of lamb (with brussels sprouts, caramelized onion, pancetta and olive oil potato puree). Two equally pleasing pasta dishes were tagliatelle verde (with speck, artichokes, chick peas and fresh herbs) and spinach ravioli (with ricotta, tomato, basil and pecorino Toscano). 
 Osso buco Milanese was undercooked and the veal was stringy, though the saffron risotto almost redeemed the disappointing meat. Sauteed wild striped bass was adequate, if not very exciting.
 Desserts on both visits were all splendid, from the rich hazelnut fondant and tiramisu to a seductive panna cotta tantalized by apple and quince flavors. Also worth mentioning: good crusty Italian bread and house-made breadsticks with real flavor, as well as a pungent olive oil dip with red pepper and rosemary.
 While my heart is still with Gaia, I have to admit that Morello Bistro is probably more in tune with current economic times and is a very likeable replacement.
 Morello Bistro
 253 Greenwich Avenue
 Greenwich
 (203) 661-3443
 morellobistro.com
 VERY GOOD
 THE SPACE Two two-level dining areas in a historic landmark building. Dramatic highlights: golden tiled walls with rounded arches and modern hand-blown glass chandeliers. Noisy when restaurant is full. Street-level access. 
 THE CROWD Couples and foursomes, mostly in their 30s and 40s. Attentive waiters. Reservations are recommended on weekends. 
 THE BAR Long full bar with some tables for dining in a separate bar area. Excellent, if pricey, wine list, predominantly Italian, French and American. Bottles begin at $35; by the glass, $7 to $16.
 THE BILL Lunch: entrees, $10 to $26; $20 prix fixe two-course lunch (6 entree choices) offered Monday to Saturday. Dinner: appetizers, $7 to $15; entrees, $19 to $34; desserts, $8 to $10. Sunday brunch: 1 entree and a free beverage, $22. All major credit cards are accepted. 
 WHAT WE LIKE Fried calamari, fonduta di formaggi, butternut squash soup, hamachi crudo, sea scallops; tagliatelle verde, spinach ravioli, rack of lamb, six-ounce beef fillet; all desserts.
 IF YOU GO Lunch: noon to 2:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Dinner: 5 to 9:30 p.m. Monday to Thursday; 5 to 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday; 5 to 9 p.m. Sunday. Brunch: 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Sunday. Metered parking along Greenwich Avenue. 
 Reviewed Feb. 1, 2009 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOVELY LANDMARK: Above, the golden amber tile making up the arches and pillars that set the scene at Morello Bistro. Upper left, tagliatelle verde (with speck, artichokes, chick peas and fresh herbs). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); MUSHROOMS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



14 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Still Doing the Math, but for $100K a Year

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ROCHESTER 

 BODY:
 THIS is a great economic time to be a veteran public schoolteacher. Valerie Huff, a math teacher at East High here, a tough urban school, made more than $102,000 last year.
 ''A good salary? I wouldn't disagree with you,'' Ms. Huff said. ''Took me a long time to get there.'' She started teaching in 1978 for $11,250 a year and, in those early days, worked a second job, bartending, to make ends meet.
 But in the late 1980s, teacher salaries took a jump across the country, and they just kept improving, to the point that now, with the economic collapse, a lot of people who sneered at teachers, wish they had it so good.
 Health insurance? ''My health care is free,'' Ms. Huff said. 
 Security? ''Long as there's kids, I have a job.''
 Pension? ''Guaranteed pension. I hit the magic numbers last June -- 55 and 30.'' That's 55 years old with 30 years of experience, at which point teachers across New York State can retire with an annual income of about 60 percent of their top salary -- likely to be between $60,000 and $70,000 a year in Ms. Huff's case. If she's fortunate enough to live 25 more years, that's the equivalent of sitting on a 401(k) of about $1.5 million.
 At a time when many of her generation are wondering if they will ever be able to retire, Ms. Huff said, ''I'm not sure if I'll retire this June or next.''
 Marie Costanza, 53, another 100K teacher here, said people are suddenly looking at her and her teacher-husband differently. ''Friends in the corporate world who used to belittle teaching -- they're panicky, they don't know what to do,'' said Ms. Costanza, who made $6,850 starting out in 1977. ''My husband and I have had private conversations about how nice it is knowing that we have our security.''
 Before this recession hit, said Gaya Shakes, 56, 101K, ''people would be like, 'Oh you're just a teacher.' Now you hear, 'How do I get on the substitute's list? ' ''
 Nor is Rochester an aberration. Adam Urbanski, who is head of the teacher's union here, estimates that 40 percent of school districts in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey pay as well as or better than his district.
 Veteran teachers who add to their pay by working summer school and mentoring new teachers can lift their salary into the $120,000 to $130,000 range, and their pensions to around $75,000 a year, Mr. Urbanski said. Ms. Huff said she would have preferred taking recent summers off, ''but I did the numbers for retirement and I couldn't say no to teaching summer school.''
 Even teachers in New York City, who have long lagged behind their peers in wealthy suburbs, have made significant progress, with a starting base pay now of $44,500 and climbing to $100,000 after 30 years, said Brian Gibbons, a spokesman for the city teachers' union. 
 Of course, the numbers look so much better now because most everything else is looking so much worse. The latest Bureau of Labor Statistics report showed that virtually every economic sector -- except education and health -- cut payrolls.
 Whether this reflects the start of a reordering of things -- President Obama has promised to upgrade government service, and his stimulus package earmarks large sums for education -- or is simply a short-term diseconomy, is hard to say. It is entirely possible that when businesspeople sitting on school boards all over America begin comparing teachers' pensions with their own depleted 401(k)'s there will be a backlash at the negotiating table.
 Either way, Rochester is a good spot to view the change. In 1986, the maximum salary here was $36,500. The next year, Mr. Urbanski negotiated a landmark contract that raised top pay to $70,000, the best for an urban district in the country at the time. In return, a new category of lead teachers worked longer hours and 10 extra days a year, a tougher screening process was established to weed out bad teachers, and traditional seniority rules were dropped so the best veteran teachers could be assigned to the most troubled schools.
 The contract became a model of union/management cooperation, with Mr. Urbanski and the superintendent at the time making speaking appearances all over the country. It also helped set off an upward salary spiral.
 For a veteran teacher like Ms. Shakes, who is African-American, the journey to 100K has been remarkable. She grew up in Oviedo, Fla., the daughter of a domestic worker and construction laborer, graduated from a still-segregated Crooms High in Sanford, Fla., in 1970 and was part of the first wave of African-Americans to enter mainstream colleges, winning a scholarship to Vanderbilt.
 She picked teaching, in part, because, she said, government jobs like public education ''opened opportunities not otherwise available to us.'' Even after she earned a doctorate from the University of Rochester, she continued teaching high school for two reasons: The schools here are two-thirds black and, she said, ''our children need advocates''; also, that 1987 raise. 
 ''For the first time, I didn't have to worry about day to day,'' she said. ''I was able to buy books when I wanted, music when I wanted, I had money to travel.''
 She makes more teaching in the public schools than she could as a college professor, she said.
 This is what Mr. Urbanski was aiming for when he negotiated that landmark contract. His goal was to give teachers the professional status of doctors, architects and lawyers. He hoped to attract and retain top people, who would be dispatched to the toughest schools and make a difference.
 But while this generation of baby-boom teachers has witnessed remarkable transformations in their lifetime -- in women's rights, in civil rights -- the waves of education reforms aimed at remaking our urban schools that they have been dispatched to implement have repeatedly fallen short.
 Ms. Huff has taught both basic math and calculus at East High, a failing school under the federal No Child Left Behind law, considered by many here to be the city's most troubled. As I walked in the front door one frigid day last month, ambulance attendants were rolling out a young man on a gurney and wearing a neck brace.
 MS. HUFF'S eighth period has just five calculus students -- normally not enough to justify a class -- but the administration keeps it going so these children have a shot at competing with top students elsewhere. No sooner had they sat down and finished their daily warm-up quiz, than there was a loud clanging. ''A pull,'' Ms. Huff said. ''Let's go.'' Someone had yanked the fire alarm. Ms. Huff led her students through halls that were chaotic. Several times when she tried to quiet students from other classes, they swore at her.
 For 15 minutes she and her calculus students -- none of them with coats -- stood in a parking lot battered by a fierce wind off Lake Ontario. Everywhere, kids could be seen leaving school for the day, but all the calculus students returned, took their seats, and just as Ms. Huff started teaching, there was another false alarm and they had to march out again.
 By the time they were allowed back, the period was over. ''We need to do all the problems in 4.4,'' Ms. Huff told them. ''You have to get this done. We'll try again tomorrow.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Generation B column last Sunday, about public school teachers, included incorrect information from a teachers' union spokesman for the number of years required for a New York City teacher to reach the maximum salary, $100,000. It is 22 years, not 30. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



15 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, February 1st 2009

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Jan. 17, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List			 	 	 	1	1	9	OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunity &#8212; from the author of &#8220;Blink&#8221; and &#8220;The Tipping Point.&#8221;		 	 	 	2	2	2	GUILTY, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $27.95.) The columnist argues that liberals victimize everyone else by pretending to be victims themselves. (&#8224;)		 	 	 	3	3	18	DEWEY, by Vicki Myron with Bret Witter. (Grand Central, $19.99.) The kitten left freezing in the returned-book slot of an Iowa public library and his rise to fame.		 	 	 	4	5	10	TOO FAT TO FISH, by Artie Lange with Anthony Bozza. (Spiegel & Grau, $24.95.) Humorous memories from the comedian, a member of the cast of &#8220;The Howard Stern Show.&#8221;		 	 	 	5	4	10	AMERICAN LION, by Jon Meacham. (Random House, $30.) Andrew Jackson in the White House, by Newsweek&#8217;s editor.		 	 	 	6	8	9	WHY WE SUCK, by Denis Leary. (Viking, $26.95.) Sardonic essays from the actor and comedian,		 	 	 	7	16	10	THE AMERICAN JOURNEY OF BARACK OBAMA, by the editors of Life magazine. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) Photographs and essays, starting with Obama&#8217;s birth in Hawaii.		 	 	 	8*	10	17	A BOLD FRESH PIECE OF HUMANITY, by Bill O&#8217;Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The Fox News commentator on his upbringing and career.		 	 	 	9	7	19	HOT, FLAT, AND CROWDED, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.95.) How a green revolution can renew America, by the New York Times columnist.		 	 	 	10	15	6	THE ASCENT OF MONEY, by Niall Ferguson. (Penguin Press, $29.95.) A financial history of the world.		 	 	 	11	9	13	MULTIPLE BLESSINGS, by Jon Gosselin, Kate Gosselin and Beth Carson. (Zondervan, $19.) A couple has sextuplets.		 	 	 	12	6	6	WISHFUL DRINKING, by Carrie Fisher. (Simon & Schuster, $21.) A memoir based on Fisher&#8217;s one-woman show.		 	 	 	13		1	THE INHERITANCE, by David E. Sanger. (Harmony, $26.95.) The foreign policy challenges that George Bush left for President Obama, by a New York Times correspondent.		 	 	 	14*	11	3	THE RETURN OF DEPRESSION ECONOMICS AND THE CRISIS OF 2008, by Paul Krugman. (Norton, $24.95.) The origins of the current financial crisis and how it can be contained, by the Nobel Prize-winning economist.		 	 	 	15	13	2	ANIMALS MAKE US HUMAN, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $26.) Being attentive to animals&#8217; emotions, both positive and negative, can help them have a better life.		 	 	 	16*	12	27	ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Simon Spotlight Entertainment, $24.95.) Humorous personal essays from the stand-up comedian.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); HOWARD STERN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



16 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: Running on Book Sense and Charm

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
 IN the last few years, Michael Ignatieff's friends in the United States and England began receiving self-deprecating e-mail messages from him lamenting how dull and low-profile his life had suddenly become.
 He had spent most of the preceding four decades making a name for himself in both countries -- writing essays on the world's war zones for The New Yorker, The New Republic and The New York Review of Books; writing novels and screenplays; enjoying popularity as a television-show host in Britain and a regular at the Groucho Club; and teaching at Harvard and Cambridge universities.
 Now, he joked, he was stuck in the pedestrian life of a freshman civil servant -- in Canada no less.
 Mr. Ignatieff shocked friends and colleagues three years ago by chucking the life of the mind for the hurly-burly of politics and returning, after a long exile, to his native country to win a seat in Parliament. And if he was bored, it wasn't for long. Last December, after a tumultuous fortnight of machinations in parliament, Mr. Ignatieff, 61, became the leader of the opposition Liberal Party, which has been called Canada's ''natural ruling party'' and has been in power for much of the last century. 
 Should his party win control of the government, something it came close to doing last week and still hopes to in the coming months, he would become the next prime minister of Canada.
 Among the circles in which Mr. Ignatieff once traveled, there might be a sense that anybody capable of writing a novel (''Scar Tissue'') that becomes short-listed for the Booker Prize -- anybody, for that matter, who had the writer Martin Amis and Michael Palin of Monty Python as guests at his wedding -- could figure out a way to jump the queue of Canadian politics.
 Even so, his ascendancy puts his country on the cusp of an unusual moment, in some ways a throwback to the era of the dashing Pierre Trudeau, another smart-set intellectual who served as prime minister.
 ''He was brought in to reinvigorate the liberal brand, to go for the big game right away,'' said Nelson Wiseman, a political scientist at the University of Toronto. ''I think a lot of the party thought, 'We need someone who has the intellectual gravitas of Pierre Trudeau.' Like Trudeau, he came in as a fresh figure, but he also had a reputation abroad that Trudeau didn't.''
 Mr. Ignatieff has proven savvy enough in his own country. Although his opposition coalition split apart and backed down last week from its efforts to defeat the Conservative government led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, political watchers say that Mr. Ignatieff is probably just biding his time. 
 ''He wants the crown in his own right -- not through a coalition but via an election, which most of the pundits think we'll have later this year,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''He also wants the Harper administration to have to wear the recession for a while.''
 Mr. Ignatieff's rise in Parliament happened fast, he said in an interview in late January. He said that he gave up a lot by leaving behind the private contentment of a serious writer's life to run for office. 
 ''But I'm in here to be serious,'' he said, and added: ''This is the only place where I can be a participant, not a spectator. I've been a spectator, and now I'm in the boat fishing. That part of it, from a spiritual point of view, it feels good.''
 A FEW years ago, a survey conducted by Foreign Policy magazine and Prospect, a British journal, ranked Mr. Ignatieff as the 37th-most influential ''public intellectual'' in the world (the Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe was 38th). Although the clauses ''for a Canadian'' or, now, ''for a politician'' are often attached, people almost always describe Mr. Ignatieff as glamorous. Maclean's magazine once named him Canada's ''Sexiest Cerebral Man.'' He was famous in London during the 1980s and 1990s when he was the host of a television talk show devoted to books and ideas. He was a sort of Anglophone version of Bernard-Henri Levy, but with a pedigree and without the money or aversion to shirt-buttoning.
 Mr. Ignatieff's big-time ambition is so much a part of his public identity that he often scores points by making fun of it himself. At a recent address to a group of 700 business leaders, he opened with a shout-out to a member of the audience who, he kindly noted, had run against him for his parliamentary seat. ''And I beat him,'' Mr. Ignatieff said, after a nicely timed comedic pause. The crowd laughed heartily.
 Mr. Ignatieff's life story is positively novelistic in its detail. His father, George Ignatieff, was a Canadian diplomat, and his grandfather and great-grandfather were both Russian counts who served as cabinet ministers in the czarist government. His mother's brother, George Grant, was a famous political philosopher.
 Mr. Ignatieff held the captainship of his boarding-school soccer team, produced a Harvard dissertation that involved spending nights watching over state prison inmates in Massachusetts and has written more than a dozen books: political tracts, three novels, a family history, a biography of his former mentor Isaiah Berlin, and -- mobilized by what he saw in the Balkans -- several books about human rights and intervention. 
 In 2004, when he was serving as the director of Harvard's Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, Mr. Ignatieff was visited by three strategists from Canada's Liberal wing who were leading an effort to infuse a party weakened by scandal with new blood. ''It was a bolt from the blue,'' he recalled, when during dinner they asked him to consider coming back to run for office.
 ''The chance to be in the arena was pretty irresistible,'' he said.
 It was simultaneously of a piece with his background and somewhat incongruous. ''My dad worked for four prime ministers,'' he said. ''I grew up in a house where public service was something you ought to do. But elected public service my father thought of with horror, because he knew how brutal it was.''
 In seeking his party's leadership position in 2006 and 2008, Mr. Ignatieff ran both times against Bob Rae, a longtime politician who happened to be one of his best friends; they had been roommates at the University of Toronto.
 ''It was difficult running against Bob -- we are old, old friends, and our dads were in the foreign service together, '' Mr. Ignatieff said.''
 In 2006, neither was elected leader, but in 2008, Mr. Rae bowed out of the contest at the last minute to throw his support to Mr. Ignatieff.
 ''We had some very emotional conversations,'' Mr. Rae said in an interview in Toronto. ''My feeling was that Michael had the support of the small and influential group of party officials who were voting -- these were special, last-minute circumstances -- but that if it had been a broader election throughout the party, I'd have won.''
 To this, Mr. Ignatieff said, ''We'll never know, because Bob pulled out of the race, because he made a very fine gesture.''
 Mr. Ignatieff's friend Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, described him as ''a genuinely introspective individual,'' but said that in the more than two decades he has been editing him, he had never heard mention of an interest in running for office. ''He is, in spirit, a humanist, not a politician,'' he said.
 Mr. Wieseltier added: ''When I would see Michael, he and I would stroll arm in arm around Covent Garden singing -- poorly, of course -- some of the great quintet in the first act of 'Cosi Fan Tutte.' Therewas in him a hunger for intellectual authority and for a certain degree of social recognition, but it was never about power.'' 
 While Mr. Ignatieff is blessed with many attributes that an elected official is supposed to possess -- poise, focus and an instinct for self-preservation -- he has a number of other traits that probably wouldn't play on an American stage.
 He has openly acknowledged, without much self-censorship, regret over his initial support of the Iraq war and has movingly -- if painfully -- wrung his hands in print, most notably in The New York Times Magazine, over both the decision and his ensuing volte-face.
 In Canada, he has faced criticism for his stance on the war, not simply because of all the agonizing, but because, as Andrew Potter wrote in a 2006 issue of Maclean's, ''his arguments reek of the necessary compromises you need to make as a liberal in the U.S.''
 In fact, over the years, Mr. Ignatieff has been very plain about his affinity for a country not his own. In 2002, writing in Granta, a literary magazine, he discussed his youthful opposition to the Vietnam War: ''I loved my own country, but I believed in America in a way that Canada never allowed. I was against the war because I thought it betrayed something essential about the country. I marched because I believed in Jefferson and Lincoln.''
 Considering those words now over tea and biscuits in Toronto, Mr. Ignatieff said, ''There are moments when I've identified passionately with America, and there are moments of total recoil.'' (The invasion of Iraq, he said, came to encompass both feelings.)
 ''I think I've always felt passionately and proudly Canadian, and the way I prove that is that I've never sought another passport,'' he said, then smiled as he added that he keeps a statue of Thomas Jefferson in his study.
 Charges of carpetbagging -- Mr. Ignatieff and his second wife, Zsuzsanna Zshoar, moved into a condominium in an area of Toronto that he doesn't represent -- and impatience to rise to the top have also provided red meat to conservatives and Canadian tabloids.
 David Rieff, an American friend and author, said: ''Canada, like a lot of culturally small countries, has an ambivalent relationship with countrymen who leave and make it big in the United States or in Europe. He's considered a celebrity at home, and they're very proud of him, but there's also some graceless carping. It's tall-poppy syndrome.'' 
 MR. IGNATIEFF'S next book, ''True Patriot Love: Four Generations in Search of Canada,'' will be published in late April, on the eve of a possible federal election. He described it as an exploration of Canadian identity -- his, as well as those of his grandfather, father and children (he has two). 
 ''Every generation, they are all obsessed with the idea of how to maintain a Canadian empire in the face of America, this behemoth right next door.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CEREBRAL TACTICS: Some see Michael Ignatieff, the opposition Liberal Party leader, as a throwback to Pierre Trudeau (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI/REUTERS)
 WORLDLY: Michael Ignatieff, who lived abroad for many years, with his wife, Zsuzsanna Zshoar.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BOILY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%) CANADA (94%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



17 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; HEMPSTEAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Report Sees A Failure In Educating All Students

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD 

 BODY:
 LONG ISLAND'S public school system, long considered the crown jewel of suburban life here, costs too much and fails to deliver quality education to all students, according to a new study.
 The schools impose a growing financial burden, spending a staggering $8.5 billion a year, and property taxes to finance them escalated at almost triple the rate of general inflation in recent years, the study found.
 The report, issued on Friday by the Long Island Index, a nonprofit research and policy group, faulted the cost and effectiveness of schools in both wealthy and poor communities. 
 ''While we pay a lot in taxes, we don't always get what we expect, and sometimes we don't get what we need,'' the report said. ''While some of our schools are the best in the country, many are not doing well at all.'' 
 Defenders of the system point to schools that send their top graduates to Ivy League colleges and the Island's domination of the annual Intel science contest. But critics note that Long Island is also home to dysfunctional districts, symbolized by the only one ever subjected to a state takeover, Roosevelt. 
 Nassau and Suffolk Counties are balkanized into 125 school districts, which the report called an unusual and inefficient system with gross disparities in taxes, revenues and spending. Of the nation's 3,143 counties, Suffolk ranks fourth and Nassau seventh in number of districts, the report said. 
 Racial fault lines also loom large. Enrollments in wealthy and midrange districts are about three-fourths white, while poor districts are 90 percent black or Hispanic, the report said.
 ''It's a tale of two cities,'' said John H. Jackson, who endorsed the report. He is president of the Schott Foundation for Public Education in Cambridge, Mass., and served on President Obama's transition task force. 
 Patrick G. Halpin, a former Suffolk County executive, former state assemblyman and now the executive vice president of the Institute for Student Achievement, which advises high schools across the nation on improving performance, said that ''this could be one of the most important studies ever on Long Island.''
 ''It could be an extraordinary catalyst for change,'' Mr. Halpin said. ''Our schools are not nearly as good as we think they are, they cost way too much and the education could be much better for the kids if the schools were organized differently.
 ''We're not getting the value we should, even in districts that are expending extraordinary amounts per student. And in high-needs areas, kids are literally trapped in districts that doom them to an inferior education. How many potential Barack Obamas are stuck out there?''
 The study found that as of 2005, the latest year for which data was compiled, wealthier districts on Long Island spent $25,708 annually per student, while poor ones spent $17,747. That gap produces disparities in class sizes, the number of computers and other resources.
 Yet taxes are often highest in beleaguered districts because of large enrollments and lower property values. With little commercial property in Roosevelt, for example, homeowners pay 90 percent of school taxes. In adjacent Uniondale, with a big chunk of the Roosevelt Field shopping mall, residents shoulder only 29 percent of their district's taxes.
 ''It's very clear there has been an inequity in the financing of education on Long Island and throughout New York State,'' Roosevelt's school superintendent, Robert-Wayne Harris, said. ''Unfortunately, in communities like Roosevelt, taxpayers have to bear the brunt.'' He said he doubted that the Island was ready to merge districts.
 The study examined how much a typical annual tax bill would rise to enable a spending increase of $250 per student. For Fire Island, Amagansett, Bridgehampton and Quogue, it would be only a few dollars. But for Brentwood, Wyandanch, Hempstead and Roosevelt, it would come to more than $300.
 State aid adjustments have failed to equalize the financing, the report said. Poor districts also have greater needs, like the growing number of immigrant children requiring help with English. That figure jumped to one in four students in 2007, from one in seven in 2001, the report said.
 ''Where needs are highest, we spend the least; unsurprisingly, outcomes are the lowest,'' the report said of the mismatch of funds and needs. ''Conversely, where we spend the most, student needs are the least.'' 
 Even gifted students are shortchanged, because local districts have failed to innovate with magnet schools like the specialized high schools in New York City, the report said. 
 Though wealthy districts spend the most on education, they yield about the same academic performance as midrange districts, according to test scores. At the other end, schools in struggling communities often fail to educate their students, as shown by failing test scores, dropouts and nongraduates.
 Some states and localities deploy various solutions to such problems, including countywide school districts and equalized revenue. ''It's not that what we're facing is unique,'' said Ann Golob, director of the Long Island Index. But the Island has seen little movement for change.
 ''Long Island has resisted tinkering with its educational system,'' the report said. ''Over the years, proposals to create more opportunities for students, consolidate districts and build magnet schools have gone nowhere. Yet maintaining the status quo will not work either -- it is both too expensive to sustain and not delivering the necessary outcomes for the region.''
 Residents are literally invested in the system. Home buyers shop for the best schools and lowest taxes, and house prices vary sharply by district boundaries.
 ''Long Island has evolved a zero-sum mentality -- if one district gains, another loses,'' said the report, though it disputes that belief. A survey of Long Islanders for the report found that many were unaware of the disparities between districts but were open to the concept of change.
 Yet actual change has been hard to come by, Mr. Halpin said. ''Twenty years ago I asked in my State of the County Message, Why do we need some 126 school districts?'' he recalled of his term as the Suffolk County executive, ''and it became a Page 1 story in Newsday. We have yet to get a satisfactory answer to that.'' 
 As a state legislator, Mr. Halpin sponsored Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's proposal for a high school in Farmingdale specializing in science and math for students across the Island, but local school leaders blocked it. ''These school districts have had a stranglehold over people's perceptions and over legislators,'' Mr. Halpin said.
 The Nassau-Suffolk School Boards Association said it had not yet seen the report and it did not have an immediate comment.
 Long Island's two current county executives, Thomas R. Suozzi in Nassau and Steve Levy in Suffolk, have been pushing schools to save money by consolidating functions like purchasing. 
 The president of the New York State United Teachers, Richard C. Iannuzzi, who taught for 34 years in Central Islip, said, ''We have a great quality of education on Long Island, but it could be even better'' with innovation and equalized financing. 
 Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, said his group had tracked school costs for years. ''We found, to everybody's surprise,'' that when the high cost of living on the Island is factored in, median school costs are actually lower than the state average, he said. 
 The Long Island Index study, a year in preparation, included analyses by Hofstra University and the Fiscal Policy Institute and an opinion survey by Stony Brook University. The index is sponsored by the Rauch Foundation in Garden City.
 The foundation's president, Nancy Rauch Douzinas, said that the growing stress in the economy could exert pressure on public officials to act. ''The people are more willing to be led,'' she said, ''than the leaders are willing to lead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN CONTRAST: Second graders in Victor Kastel's music class, above, at Washington Rose School in Roosevelt, where homeowners pay 90 percent of school taxes. In adjacent Uniondale, below, homeowners pay 29 percent.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: School Lottery: The wealth of school districts varies widely. Some districts have enough taxpaying businesses to pay much of the cost of educating their children. Others have almost none, and homeowners shoulder most of the burden.(Source: Long Island Index) Chart details various statistics for Long Island. (pg. LI7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); COUNTIES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); SUBURBS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



18 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Recession Has Landlords of Retail Tenants Extending Discounts of Their Own

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Back in the mid-1990s, when a stretch of Ludlow Street in Manhattan was dominated by boarded-up buildings and wholesale fruit and nut vendors, Terri Gillis's boutique, TG-170, was one of the magnets that drew intrepid shoppers to the Lower East Side.
 That area is now one of the city's liveliest late-night strips, which made it particularly painful for Ms. Gillis to receive an eviction notice last month because she owed $13,556.26 in back real estate taxes. But in a sudden change of heart, her landlord recently offered to let Ms. Gillis stay for two more years, and even proposed paying part of her future real estate taxes -- which retail tenants normally pay. 
 In this troubled economy, the building manager, Arwen Properties, decided it would rather hold onto a good tenant. 
 ''We're working with her and trying to compromise,'' the lawyer for Arwen Properties, Joel Bernstein, said. ''The landlord has got an incentive, naturally, to keep cash flowing.''
 Many landlords he advises are coming to the same conclusion, Mr. Bernstein said. Just a year ago, the owners of New York's most coveted retail and restaurant spaces held almost unassailable power to dictate the terms of their leases. But the recession is changing that equation, as rapidly rising vacancy rates and bankruptcies are making it hard to find new tenants. 
 And so some small businesses are finding a silver lining in the recessionary clouds: they suddenly have leverage with their landlords. 
 Six months ago, for instance, the landlord of the Holland Bar in Hell's Kitchen terminated the lease because he was confident of finding a higher-paying tenant or developing luxury condos. But when he found no takers, he offered the space back to the bar, at a 20 percent increase in rent. The Holland reopened last week.
 ''Everyone is afraid of losing revenue stream,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman of retail leasing and sales for Prudential Douglas Elliman, who is representing retailers and landlords on six lease renewals. At least two of the landlords have been fearful enough about losing tenants that they agreed to rent cuts of more than 10 percent. 
 Ms. Consolo added that ''2009 is going to be the year leases were negotiated more than ever before.''
 Jeff Gural, who owns 40 Manhattan buildings, said that he has been reworking lease agreements with struggling shop owners to help them stay in business. He typically asks for their financial statements as evidence, then tries to cut deals that can include deferring rent payments.
 ''If someone can show us that they're in trouble and they've been a good tenant over the years, we try to help,'' he said. 
 The rental market has become weak enough that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg acknowledged the problem in his annual budget address on Friday.
 ''There are an awful lot of empty stores, but what is more damaging for the landlords is that most of the other stores are empty -- not empty physically, but people aren't shopping,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 That does not mean that all of the city's landlords, whether in upscale Manhattan districts or shopping strips in Brooklyn and Queens, are cutting their tenants a break; many shops are still facing sharply rising rents as leases come due. 
 Indeed, many landlords find themselves in a bind because they paid stiff prices for property in recent years and need to cover hefty mortgage payments. On average, Manhattan landlords paid $3,348 per square foot for retail properties in 2008, compared with $538 per square foot in 2004, according to the brokerage Cushman & Wakefield. 
 ''If a landlord bought a building over the past decade or longer, they have more flexibility,'' said Jeffrey D. Roseman, executive vice president with Newmark Knight Frank Retail, who has been representing both tenants and landlords on these negotiations. ''If they bought in the last year, they can't afford to be creative.''
 So even now, amid the deepest recession in decades, many landlords are trying to raise rents on tenants who may have negotiated leases a decade ago. Rising rents caused the restaurant Ruby Foo's Upper West Side location to close on Jan. 14. And the Knitting Factory nightclub and Cendrillon, a pan-Asian restaurant, are moving to Brooklyn in search of lower rents. (Cendrillon will reopen under a new name, Purple Yam.)
 But as more small businesses close, the pressure on landlords to strike deals is growing. While New York City's retail vacancy rate has remained relatively low at 4.7 percent, it grew faster than in any other major city between the third quarter of 2007 and the third quarter of 2008, according to Marcus & Millichap Research Services. 
 And rents have started to drop even on busier shopping districts like Madison Avenue, where a Grubb & Ellis report issued last month predicted that rents could fall by as much as 30 percent this year.
 The slowdown is hitting small businesses especially hard in places like the Lower East Side, where real estate values quadrupled in recent years to more than $400 per square foot, said Michael F. DeCheser, a Massey Knakal Realty Services broker. 
 Ms. Gillis feared she might be forced out after watching a neighboring business move when the retailer could not pay his rising rent. 
 Since 2001, the retailer, Arjan Khiani, had owned a clothing shop at 174 Ludlow called Bodyworship, where the customers included celebrities like Britney Spears. In December 2007, Arwen Properties, the building's management company, sent Mr. Khiani an eviction notice saying that he owed about $45,000 in real estate taxes and that his rent would double to $6,900 a month.
 So Mr. Khiani moved out in January 2008 and opened a new shop five blocks away. But that shop did not draw enough business and he closed it in December. Now his new landlord is suing him because he cannot find a new tenant for the space.
 Ms. Gillis was determined not to let that happen to her.
 She started her boutique in her apartment in 1992 and attracted attention from neighbors by holding fashion shows in her front windows. She nurtured young fashion designers, including some who have moved to big retailers like American Apparel. Today, three loyal Westie terriers trail at her heels as she moves around her shop, with its whitewashed floors and chandeliers. 
 In the current slowdown, she says she has kept her business running in part by using her retirement savings to pay bills. With many of her neighbors struggling, she considers herself fortunate that the downturn has helped her keep her space.
 ''They definitely wanted me out of there,'' she said of her landlord. ''But I'm sure because of the economy it would definitely be harder to get someone else in there.''
 Other shop owners are finding that if their landlords will not negotiate, there are others who will. 
 Last year, the new owner of a building down the block from Ms. Gillis told his tenant, Ludlow Guitars, that the monthly rent could more than triple, to $24,000 from $7,100. 
 The landlord, Michael Forrest, calls the block the ''highest retail rent district of the Lower East Side'' and points to two hotel projects and a condo project on the block -- all three are currently stalled -- as evidence the neighborhood will pick up.
 ''I'm an optimist,'' said Mr. Forrest. ''Successful restaurants are still succeeding. I still see people shopping.''
 The owner of Ludlow Guitars, Jan Howell, began looking elsewhere for space, and found a landlord a couple of blocks away willing to charge him only slightly more than he pays now in rent. He plans to move by April and he believes that his customers will follow. For now, he is savoring that he found a deal that might have seemed unthinkable six months ago.
 ''It would have been absolutely impossible,'' Mr. Howell said. ''There's an upside. Business is bad. But rents have come down as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terri Gillis avoided eviction and kept her boutique, TG-170, on Ludlow Street in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EVICTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (53%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (52%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



19 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Recession Can Change a Way of Life

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
AS job losses mount and bailout costs run into the trillions, the social costs of the economic downturn become clearer. The primary question, to be sure, is what can be done to shorten or alleviate these bad times. But there is also a broader set of questions about how this downturn is changing our lives, in ways beyond strict economics. 
 All recessions have cultural and social effects, but in major downturns the changes can be profound. The Great Depression, for example, may be regarded as a social and cultural era as well as an economic one. And the current crisis is also likely to enact changes in various areas, from our entertainment habits to our health. 
 First, consider entertainment. Many studies have shown that when a job is harder to find or less lucrative, people spend more time on self-improvement and relatively inexpensive amusements. During the Depression of the 1930s, that meant listening to the radio and playing parlor and board games, sometimes in lieu of a glamorous night on the town. These stay-at-home tendencies persisted through at least the 1950s. 
 In today's recession, we can also expect to turn to less expensive activities -- and maybe to keep those habits for years. They may take the form of greater interest in free content on the Internet and the simple pleasures of a daily walk, instead of expensive vacations and N.B.A. box seats.
 In any recession, the poor suffer the most pain. But in cultural influence, it may well be the rich who lose the most in the current crisis. This downturn is bringing a larger-than-usual decline in consumption by the wealthy. 
 The shift has been documented by Jonathan A. Parker and Annette Vissing-Jorgenson, finance professors at Northwestern University, in their recent paper, ''Who Bears Aggregate Fluctuations and How? Estimates and Implications for Consumption Inequality.'' Of course, people who held much wealth in real estate or stocks have taken heavy losses. But most important, the paper says, the labor incomes of high earners have declined more than in past recessions, as seen in the financial sector. 
 Popular culture's catering to the wealthy may also decline in this downturn. We can expect a shift away from the lionizing of fancy restaurants, for example, and toward more use of public libraries. Such changes tend to occur in downturns, but this time they may be especially pronounced.
 Recessions and depressions, of course, are not good for mental health. But it is less widely known that in the United States and other affluent countries, physical health seems to improve, on average, during a downturn. Sure, it's stressful to miss a paycheck, but eliminating the stresses of a job may have some beneficial effects. Perhaps more important, people may take fewer car trips, thus lowering the risk of accidents, and spend less on alcohol and tobacco. They also have more time for exercise and sleep, and tend to choose home cooking over fast food.
 In a 2003 paper, ''Healthy Living in Hard Times,'' Christopher J. Ruhm, an economist at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, found that the death rate falls as unemployment rises. In the United States, he found, a 1 percent increase in the unemployment rate, on average, decreases the death rate by 0.5 percent.
 David Potts studied the social history of Australia in the 1930s in his 2006 book, ''The Myth of the Great Depression.'' Australia's suicide rate spiked in 1930, but overall health improved and death rates declined; after 1930, suicide rates declined as well. 
 While he found in interviews that many people reminisced fondly about those depression years, we shouldn't rush to conclude that depressions are happy times.
 Many of their reports are likely illusory, as documented by the Harvard psychologist Daniel Gilbert in his best-selling book ''Stumbling on Happiness.'' According to Professor Gilbert, people often have rosy memories of very trying periods, which may include extreme poverty or fighting in a war.
 In today's context, we are also suffering fear and anxiety for the rather dubious consolation of having some interesting memories for the distant future.
 But this downturn will likely mean a more prudent generation to come. That is implied by the work of two professors, Ulrike Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, and Stefan Nagel of the Stanford Business School, in a 2007 paper, ''Depression Babies: Do Macroeconomic Experiences Affect Risk-Taking?''
 A generation that grows up in a period of low stock returns is likely to take an unusually cautious approach to investing, even decades later, the paper found. Similarly, a generation that grows up with high inflation will be more cautious about buying bonds decades later.
 IN other words, today's teenagers stand less chance of making foolish decisions in the stock market down the road. They are likely to forgo some good business opportunities, but also to make fewer mistakes.
 When all is said and done, something terrible has happened in the United States economy, and no one should wish for such an event. But a deeper look at the downturn, and the social changes it is bringing, shows a more complex picture.
 In addition to trying to get out of the recession -- our first priority -- many of us will be making do with less and relying more on ourselves and our families. The social changes may well be the next big story of this recession. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); RECESSION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); BOARD GAMES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); LIBRARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



20 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Ah, Wilderness!

BYLINE: By JOHN WILSON. 
John Wilson is the editor of Books & Culture.

 BODY:
A PASSION FOR NATURE
 The Life of John Muir
 By Donald Worster
 Illustrated. 535 pp. Oxford University Press. $34.95
 The nature lover and conservationist John Muir is at once famous and indistinct in the minds of most people. Doubtless there are ardent souls who could give a credible account of his life, but not many -- not even among those who share the passion that led Muir in 1867, at age 29, to embark on a thousand-mile walk from Indiana to the Gulf of Mexico and drove him to continue rambling hither and yon throughout his long life. Muir is revered but remote. He needs a substantial biography to bring him into focus. 
 Donald Worster aims to fill that gap. One of the founders of environmental history, the author of a well-received biography of the explorer and scientist John Wesley Powell and long a student of the landscape and history of the American West in particular, Worster brings superb scholarly credentials to the task. What he lacks is the ability to tell a story. Readers with a merely casual interest in Muir aren't likely to persist. But the doughty ones who stay the course will be rewarded. The record of Muir's life that Worster has scrupulously assembled, fascinating in its own right, takes on added significance as Worster sets it in context. 
 Worster frames his narrative in a surprising way, as an exemplary tale about the rise of liberal democracy. For authority he cites Alexis de Tocqueville's ''Democracy in America'': ''In a seldom-noticed chapter of the book, Tocqueville noted that the liberal democratic revolution seemed to encourage a strong feeling for nature. Its philosophical tendency, he wrote, is to tear down the traditional doctrines of Christianity and put in their place a new religion of nature, or what he called 'pantheism.' '' 
 What Tocqueville deplored, Worster celebrates. In his telling, Muir's passion for nature is best understood alongside a mostly gradual, if at times dramatic, shift in American society toward racial equality, equality between men and women, and the like -- a shift which, in Worster's reckoning, entailed liberation from Christian orthodoxy. ''Traditional Protestantism,'' with its emphasis on economic productivity and self-denial, ''was weakening its hold, and Muir was one of those cutting away at its roots.'' 
 The tale begins in Scotland, in the seaport of Dunbar, where Muir spent his first 11 years. His father, Daniel, a successful merchant, was a man of intense religious convictions who was dissatisfied with traditional denominations. Ultimately Daniel Muir was drawn to the restoration movement associated with Alexander Campbell, which claimed to return to the unspoiled beginnings of the Christian faith, free of the excrescences that had built up in the intervening centuries. In 1849, the Muir family emigrated to the United States, where the Campbellite movement began, settling in Wisconsin. Young John was expected to work hard and long, and his father was a cruel taskmaster. Many years later, in ''The Story of My Boyhood and Youth'' (1913), Muir recalled the frequent beatings he received, sometimes accompanied by ranting sermons. Little wonder that Muir grew up to reject his father's creed. 
 But Muir did not settle into bitterness. On the contrary: he took an inexhaustible delight in the natural world, seeing in it the hand of a God who differed greatly from the grim deity of his father. 
 To get a palpable sense of this delight, which was at the very core of Muir's life, it would be helpful to supplement Worster's account with another new book, Nature's Beloved Son: Rediscovering John Muir's Botanical Legacy, by Bonnie J. Gisel, with images by Stephen J. Joseph (Heyday Books, $45). These extraordinary images of plant specimens Muir lovingly collected, now digitally restored and enhanced, along with writings from his notebooks and elsewhere, show how he combined exacting attention to the stubborn particularities of nature with frankly mystical rapture at its splendors. 
 And yet, as Worster makes clear, Muir came close to setting aside this great love after he dropped out of the University of Wisconsin in the early 1860s. A rather aimless period followed until he found a job in Indianapolis at Osgood, Smith & Company, a steam-powered factory that made wooden hubs and spokes for wagon wheels. Muir excelled at the job and was soon promoted. He took an intense interest not only in the technical aspects of the factory but in questions of efficient management, going so far as to chart a typical day's labor with the aim of ''harmonizing all human behavior in the factory with the rhythm of machines,'' as Worster writes. That John Muir, of all people, should thus anticipate the notorious ''scientific management'' studies of Frederick Winslow Taylor seems incredible. But Worster shrewdly observes at the outset of the book that Muir, ''regardless of where he traveled, would remain a Lowland Scot all his days,'' and he could easily have become another dynamic industrialist in the Scottish diaspora. 
 One day, while Muir was repairing a belt for a circular saw, a file flew into his face, temporarily blinding him. Although he healed nicely and regained his sight, the shock of the experience made a lasting impact. ''Those weeks of darkness,'' Worster writes, ''had wrought a permanent change in his thinking, and that change would gather force during the spring and ensuing summer. He would never go back to Osgood, Smith. He would throw down his tools, abandon forever any career in industry or invention, and seek his own independent way on earth.'' 
 In a film or a novel, this turning point might be dismissed as heavy-handed, but real life isn't so fastidious. From this decisive moment, Muir went on to become ''John Muir,'' lean and bearded, roaming everywhere from the Yosemite Valley to the Mojave Desert, fighting the good conservation fight (though his heart was never in politics), writing articles and books that prepared the way for the modern environmental movement. 
 Worster reproaches his subject for backsliding: ''As he aged and became more prosperous and prominent, with a national following to lead, he became more traditional in his beliefs -- by no means reverting to a conservative, evangelical Christianity, but sounding more and more like a typical theist or Transcendentalist seeking beyond nature a God in heaven, a Creator of the world's material forms, or a great Spirit hovering over the earth.'' 
 Worster goes so far as to attribute this alleged change in Muir's outlook to the effects of ''money and fame,'' which ''had made him more of a conformist than he seems to have realized.'' I see no warrant for this ungenerous judgment. Muir's mature faith was formed by the time he left Osgood, Smith -- and it always contained a strong sense of divine presence. When Muir decided to leave the factory behind, he wrote, he bid ''adieu to all thoughts of inventing machinery''; instead he would spend his life ''studying the inventions of God.'' For Muir, as Worster acknowledges, this faith wasn't threatened in the least by the ideas of Charles Darwin, whom he defended as a ''devout and indefatigable seeker after truth,'' though Muir vigorously rejected the notion that evolution disenchanted the world, leaving us to come to terms with nature red in tooth and claw. 
 When the Scottish mystic died, he left an estate worth the equivalent of more than $4 million today, thanks to hard work and frugality. He suffered disappointments, losses and vexations, and yet to the end possessed an unshakable assurance in the goodness of things that made him akin to Julian of Norwich: ''All shall be well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''A PASSION FOR NATURE'') DRAWING (DRAWING FROM ''A PASSION FOR NATURE'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (88%); LIBERALISM (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WRITERS (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); GENDER EQUALITY (60%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (57%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (71%)

TITLE: Nature's Beloved Son (Book)>; Nature's Beloved Son (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



21 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Assets on Plum Island

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your article about the future of the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (''What's Ahead for Plum Island?'' Jan. 25) noted that the island's federal laboratory has been a source of ''mystery.'' 
 But the island's biodiversity is no secret: from freshwater wetlands to forests to maritime communities, the island is a welcome place for wildlife and plants. Some 72 bird species -- raptors, songbirds, waterfowl and shorebirds, including rare terns, piping plovers and ospreys -- were seen there in 2007 by North Fork Audubon. 
 The maritime dune community is a ''significant natural area with high ecological and conservation value,'' according to the New York Natural Heritage Program. Harbor seals haul out on the southern end. 
 Environmental considerations must be weighed in decisions about Plum Island.
 One can joke about the rarity of creatures that might emanate from the laboratory, yet the real rarity of Plum Island lies in its hundreds of acres of relatively pristine land that have been protected from development for over 100 years. 
 MARIAN LINDBERG
 East Hampton, Jan. 27, 2009
 The author is the conservation finance and policy adviser for the Nature Conservancy on Long Island.
 To the Editor:
 Imagine if all the churches on Long Island and everywhere else in this country practiced what they preach and fed the hungry and opened the doors of the nearly empty churches to those who have lost their homes and need a place to lay their heads at night and food to fill their bellies. 
 The concept put forth in the column about the Mattituck Presbyterian Church (The Island, ''In the Cold, in the Dark, Warmth and Light,'' Jan. 25) could be taught to other congregations, thus giving people a reason to come together to help those less fortunate than themselves. 
 We have an unmet need in our communities that, with some direction, could be a positive response to the tragedy of today's economy. As ''our own'' lose their jobs, we'll look at the need for major community help in a different way.
 Let's get moving.
 LUCILLE MCCUE
 Bay Shore, Jan. 26, 2009
 Readers are invited to submit letters to regionalmail@nytimes.com Letters are 
 subject to editing. Please include your name, address and 
 contact information.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (92%); ANIMALS (90%); RELIGION (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WRITERS (73%); WETLANDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



22 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Selling the Putting Game To Offset the Downturn

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Though positive economic indicators were few at the annual PGA Merchandise Show, where attendance this weekend was off by an estimated 7 percent, one small segment of the golf industry -- upstart putter companies -- may be positioned to benefit from aspects of the economic downturn.
 With inventory of premium woods and irons mounting on retail shelves and in pro shops, evidence that golfers are unwilling to spend $599 for a new driver or $1,800 for a new set of irons, standalone putter companies are hoping consumers will turn the putter into the must-have club for golf addicts craving something new to feed their habit. 
 ''Golfers always have to spoil themselves in some way, shape or form with some new technology that will help their game,'' said Matt Molloy, the president of Rife Putters, a company that took over as the No. 1 brand in use on the Champions Tour in just three years. ''They may hold off on that new driver for the year, but they are going to step up for something. We think a $100-to-$200 putter will fit right into the wheelhouse.''
 Companies like Rife, Heavy Putter, See More Putter and the just-revived Slotline Putters do not have the resources to overtake industry giants like Odyssey, Ping, Scotty Cameron or Taylor Made.
 At least not yet. But what these companies lack in marketing dollars they make up for in focused energy. Each year at this time, the golf industry cracks open a huge can of hope to sell to consumers. And every year, to one extent or another, consumers buy hope because it really is the one thing that still springs eternal.
 Stephen Boccieri, the president and chief executive of Heavy Putter, knows all about this trait. A former nuclear engineer, Boccieri grew up in a family of golfers and has always yearned to play the game for a living. He even thought about trying the Champions Tour, beating thousands of balls a day at the indoor range he fashioned in his South Salem, N.Y., home.
 A practice session on a tee adjacent to Tom Watson snapped Boccieri back to reality. 
 ''I looked at Tom hitting shots and said, 'I could never beat this guy,' '' Boccieri said Thursday as he stood in the Heavy Putter booth at the show. 
 What he can do is design functional putters that work for golfers from tour pros to high handicappers. Heavy Putter, which made its original mark in the industry by producing an array of putters weighing about two pounds -- almost twice the weight of standard putters -- with a technology story that resonated with golfers. Essentially, the heavier mass engages the body's larger muscles, creating a more consistent stroke.
 Heavy Putter has garnered a following. But Boccieri is not satisfied with a 4 percent share of the roughly 1.5-million-unit market, and introduced a line of midweight putters at the show that he believes will help his company pick up 2 to 3 share points.
 Other economic fallout from the downturn could benefit smaller companies: most of the larger manufacturers are no longer paying tee-up money to induce touring pros to use their putters as part of a 14-club deal, which gives the smaller companies a chance to get their putters in the hands of pros based strictly on merit. 
 This is good news for a company like Slotline, the once-proud brand that is being revived this year. The No. 3 putter company in the market through much of the 1980s, Slotline had been mothballed since 2001, but is back with 14 putters priced from $99 to $199.
 ''Slotline was trusted by professional golfers on all tours in the late '80s,'' said Chad Lehr, the company's product manager, ''and based on early feedback from the tours, we feel good about our product line. Being able to get our putters in the hands of pros is key, because putting is the one aspect of the game where average players can really relate to the professionals.''
 Jim Grundberg, the owner and managing partner at See More Putters, agreed. Grundberg was part of the original team that started Odyssey from obscurity to success, and he says there is a window of opportunity for companies like his to mirror Odyssey's success if they can design and create superior products that have a story, preferably about technology, told in an energetic and engaging way.
 ''Putting really is the one category where average golfers can look at the best players in the world and aspire to be close to as good as those players are,'' he said. ''What we do with the technology in our putters is to give average players a system where they can be confident they are set up properly and lock in precisely on the target, to eliminate one of the variables.''
 The variables in the current business climate will be slightly more difficult to eliminate. If the downturn persists into spring, and existing inventory does not sell through, there will likely be steep discounting that will hurt all companies, regardless of size. That is the sobering reality. 
 Molloy is mindful that the clutter at retail from slow holiday sales could have an impact in the first quarter. But armed with more than 40 percent of the Champions Tour using his company's putters -- and the news that Jesper Parnevik may keep his Rife putter in the bag after shooting 61 with it last week -- he is guardedly optimistic.
 ''People are still trying to clear out product at retail and the next three to four months could be difficult,'' he said. ''But as long as everybody realizes that Armageddon isn't going to happen, then golf will bounce back quicker than other industries and we will be well positioned.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Boccieri of Heavy Putter has added mass to putters for a more consistent stroke.
 See More Putter's M3 Mallet is among the new products.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (77%); ENGINEERING (74%); FAMILY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



23 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2404 words

HEADLINE: Snowy Slopes, Within Easy Reach

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: WEST Cornwall 

 BODY:
 STANDING in the old wooden lodge of the Mohawk Mountain Ski Area here last month, Carol Lugar gazed at a 60-year-old photograph of her father holding what resembles an oversize garden hose. A mist emanates from the hose, and snow is all around. The picture shows one of the earliest snow-making systems in America, an invention that saved the ski industry in the Eastern United States.
 ''It was funny growing up with a father who everyone thought was nuts for trying to make snow,'' said Ms. Lugar, who now owns the ski area founded by her father, Walt Schoenknecht. ''When he died in 1987 and snow making was on every ski area in the country, people thought he was a little less nuts.''
 To the west, about 50 miles north of Manhattan in the Hudson River Valley, Macy's executives opened the Mount Peter Ski Area in 1936 because they wanted a country setting to demonstrate and exhibit the store's ski equipment and apparel. Babe Ruth came to ski, as did other celebrities. 
 Seventy-three years later, Mount Peter in Warwick, N.Y., welcomes about 50,000 visitors a year, with a regular clientele from as far away as Long Island.
 ''Mount Peter has been here a long time and struggled financially many years, but it never closed,'' said Gail Sampson, who along with her husband, Don, has owned the ski area for 38 years. ''Now we have grandparents who learned to ski here bringing grandkids back to teach them to ski.''
 There are nearly a dozen ski areas in the metropolitan New York area, and given their proximity to the country's largest ski and snowboarding market, it is not surprising that they have played a major role in the history of American snow sports. 
 What may be overlooked is how essential these small, mostly family-run ski areas remain to the soul, spirit and financial future of the sport.
 They are not only feeder systems for the larger ski areas of New England, New York and the Rocky Mountains, they are valuable community resources, affordable places of outdoor recreation and prized winter playgrounds where countless children are introduced to skiing or snowboarding.
 To stand on the sun deck beside the trails of Mohawk Mountain at lunchtime on a crisp winter afternoon, surrounded by a sea of smiling young faces, is to understand the worth of a small, accessible ski area.
 ''I miss seeing snowmen on lawns when I'm driving in the winter these days,'' Ms. Lugar said, as she pondered the appeal of her ski area. ''The new, increased structure of kids' lives prevents some things. But a small ski area offers kids freedom. They can take a run on their own, and they can come play in the snow. There's a freedom for the parents, too. So I'm glad we can do that for them.''
 Ms. Lugar's life story is typical of those in ski-area management. It is rarely a career choice but more a mix of lifestyle, avocation and advocacy. Born the year Mohawk Mountain opened 61 years ago, Ms. Lugar was raised in a tiny apartment affixed to the Mohawk lodge. ''The ski trails were just a big backyard to me,'' she said.
 Her father and mother, Peg, were skiers from the New Haven area, with Mr. Schoenknecht a particularly ardent skiing advocate who believed everyone should try the sport. Mohawk would be the place where he could breed thousands of converts to skiing.
 ''But there were snowless winters, and it bothered him to no end that he couldn't control the weather,'' Ms. Lugar said, seated in her Mohawk office late last month. ''So first he experimented with crushed ice. He imported tons of ice from local ponds and refrigeration plants and spread it on the hill with a bulldozer.''
 The ice melted quickly. It was time to think of something else. For much of the 20th century, Connecticut had dozens of tobacco farms, and Mr. Schoenknecht observed how they would spray the leaves with a mist from compressed air and water guns. He approached some engineers with the idea of a similar machine that would produce snow.
 Some continue to argue over who installed the first snow-making system that blanketed the ground with artificial snow, but, according to Jeff Leich, the executive director of the New England Ski Museum in Franconia, N.H., Mr. Schoenknecht is widely credited with opening Mohawk's slopes in the largely snowless winter of 1948-49 with a machine-made ski surface. 
 Mr. Schoenknecht, who also went on to build Mount Snow in southern Vermont, was inducted in 1979 into the National Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
 It was a rudimentary snow-making effort, but it was revolutionary and helped paved the way for the sophisticated operations that have made hundreds of ski areas in the Northeast economically viable today.
 ''Maybe I'd be a trust-fund baby now if Dad had gotten some patents for what he was doing,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''But he didn't. To him, the snow making was just a means to an end, a way to get people skiing.''
 Ms. Lugar worked at Mohawk and Mount Snow growing up and then ventured to Western ski resorts where she became a ski patroller and ski instructor. She branched out to the hotel and hospitality end of the business after realizing that if she worked at night she would be free to ski all day.
 In 1982, with her father ailing from prostate cancer, she came back to help run Mohawk. She rediscovered that a ski area -- a place of respite for visitors -- is four or more consecutive months of seven-day-a-week, 10-hour workdays for the top employees. There are the dozens of full- and part-time employees to manage; enormous energy and snow-making costs to budget; a large food service operation to run; a marketing arm that requires strategy and skill; community relations, insurance and liability concerns; a ski school to direct; and racing programs to supervise.
 But Ms. Lugar enjoyed the atmosphere. ''You're surrounded by people having fun,'' she said. ''And that invigorates you.''
 She built a house across the street from Mohawk where she raised her two children.
 On July 18, 1989, a tornado ripped through northwestern Connecticut, destroying every lift on Mohawk Mountain. Pieces of the lodge roof and lift chairs were sucked into the air and hurled miles away. The trails were strewn with fallen trees and debris.
 With damage estimated at $2 million, Ms. Lugar wondered if Mohawk could be rebuilt. 
 Steve Hedden, who is the son of Mohawk's first official employee and whom Ms. Lugar has known all her life, had become a part-owner a few years earlier and taken control of on-mountain operations.
 ''One day not long after the tornado, Steve was pounding on my door at 5:30 in the morning,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''He said to me, 'Come on, we've got work to do.' And so we started cleaning everything up.''
 The rest of the ski industry pitched in, sending crews who volunteered their time. Ski resort engineers arrived and worked for free to help restore the lifts.
 ''There were owners of little ski areas in Colorado sending us checks for $100,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''They would include a note, 'Sorry we can't be physically there but maybe this will help.' ''
 Mohawk reopened four months later, although Ms. Lugar conceded it was probably 10 years before Mohawk completely recovered.
 ''We had to do it,'' Mr. Hedden, 64, said last month. ''You couldn't let something good like Mohawk die.''
 Besides, he wasn't about to start a new career. ''I'm too lazy to go to work,'' said Mr. Hedden, who works at least 60 hours a week during the winter, not including some nights that stretch into the wee hours if there is a snow-making complication. ''I'm at a ski area all day long. That's not work.''
 MOUNT PETER'S Don Sampson was also born the same year that the ski area he owns opened to the public, although unlike Ms. Lugar, Mr. Sampson was not present for the inaugural years. 
 Mr. Sampson, now 72, came to Mount Peter in 1966 to run its ski school and met his wife, Gail, at a Mount Peter ski club meeting a few years later. They've been married 40 years -- all of it in the ski business.
 In 1971, when it looked as if Mount Peter would close, the Sampsons took out a small business loan and bought the area.
 ''The first winter we were owners it snowed like a banshee, the place was packed and we thought we were geniuses,'' said Mrs. Sampson, 60. ''Then it didn't snow for another six or seven winters, and boy, we were hurting.''
 To make ends meet, while running the ski area, Gail also worked in a bank and Don had a construction business. They lived in an apartment above the one base lodge and raised two daughters there. Along the way, they held some other odd jobs and waited for the snow-making and snow-grooming technology to get better -- and cheaper, so a small area (Mount Peter has 10 trails, a fraction of the number at large ski areas) could afford it.
 By the 1980s, the snow making and grooming was much improved. Mr. Sampson said it once took him six days to cover one trail with manmade snow; nowadays he can cover six trails in 24 hours.
 But business was still unpredictable for small ski areas, and many were closing. 
 Various gas and energy crunches kept people away, the weather was iffy and more skiers seemed to be gravitating toward bigger mountains. The Sampsons considered yearly offers to sell the hillside that made up Mount Peter, especially since Orange County, its location, was experiencing a housing boom.
 ''As you get older you say, 'I could be on a Florida beach right now instead of worrying about snow-making temperatures or whether the soda dispenser is still working,' '' Mrs. Sampson said.
 But the Sampsons never sold.
 ''It's a crazy business, but this was our home, and we just couldn't leave it,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''A lot of people came here and had fun. We stayed because of our kids, who were happy. And we thought they might want to run it someday.''
 In the 1990s, business started to rebound, and Mount Peter reinvested profits into snow making to ensure a more reliable product. 
 People who learned to ski at Mount Peter in the 1960s and '70s now had children, and when it came time for them to learn to ski or snowboard, they were drawn to the small-mountain environment they remembered.
 ''We acknowledged our place in the business and focused on it,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''And when you say you are a mom and pop place and cater to moms and dads, it all works a lot better.''
 The Sampsons' daughters, Rebecca Sampson, 35, and Amy Richardson, 33, each went off to college, but have now returned and are actively running the ski area.
 ''We've come a long way, and I think part of it is that people are looking for a small mountain experience in their lives,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''People at small mountains are more courteous and look out for each other. Parents come here, sit in the lodge and look up at the mountain knowing that every trail comes right back to the lodge, so it's easy to keep tabs on your kids.
 ''We're unpretentious. We have a steep expert trail, but on weekends 95 percent of the people are using our beginner terrain.''
 The Sampsons say they root for every small mountain in the region, viewing none as direct competition.
 ''We all need each other, and the ski industry needs all of us to promote the sport,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''If we were gone, prices would go up, and only the affluent could learn to ski. In the end, there would be a lot fewer people driving to Vermont, too. Skiers don't grow on trees -- they grow to love the sport at the local mountain.''
 IN New Jersey, the northwestern hills of Sussex County were once mostly quarries and craggy cliffs, so isolated they were dubbed ''the Ice Box of New Jersey.'' In the 1960s, entrepreneurs saw promise in the barren landscape and built not one, but two, successful ski areas. By the 1970s, according to Skiing Magazine, more people were learning to ski in New Jersey than in any other state in the nation. 
 The two ski areas have since evolved into Mountain Creek, a 45-trail complex that has embraced snowboarding and new school skiers, who use twin-tip skis to play in the area's terrain parks. Mountain Creek produced Danny Kass, a silver medalist in snowboarding at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and the 2006 Games in Turin, Italy.
 ''I grew up with a local mountain in my backyard,'' Kass said at the Games in Utah when asked about his New Jersey roots. ''When I was a kid, it was like Aspen to me.''
 Eleven years ago, Intrawest, a ski industry corporate giant, bought what was then the Vernon Valley/Great Gorge ski area, about 12 miles south of Mount Peter. Intrawest pumped many millions of dollars into the facilities and lifts for the newly named Mountain Creek.
 The Sampsons did not fear for their place in the market.
 ''Different clientele,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''We know that when teenagers get old enough to drive, they'll want to go there. That's O.K.''
 Mountain Creek further separated itself from other ski areas in the region last year by dedicating almost half its trails to a terrain park with features for snowboarders and new school skiers. The lodge near these slopes got a cultural makeover, too, with a younger, adventure sports, theme. Mountain Creek officials said the changes have been a success, and that they have received positive reactions in guest satisfaction surveys.
 Mountain Creek, the biggest ski area in the metropolitan area and a snowboarders' haven, is used by two to three times the number of skiers and snowboarders as other nearby smaller mountains.
 At Mohawk Mountain, during the holiday week as the year began, the old wooden lodge was brimming with families and, it seemed, seniors. 
 Some parents had laptops propped on the picnic tables (the lodge installed wireless Internet three years ago). Teenagers strolled about attached to iPods. Young children gathered around the candy counter. A cat slept on a sunny outside railing. It was a thriving mix, even ethnically, which is somewhat uncommon at a ski area.
 ''We have Hispanic and Indian groups that visit regularly,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''We have to keep encouraging that kind of thing to support the notion that this is a sport for everyone. In that way, I think my mom and dad would be pretty proud of what Mohawk has become.''
 And while it had not snowed for several days, the white outlines of two dozen Mohawk trails were visible several miles from the mountain. That's a picture, 60 years later, that would have pleased Walt Schoenknecht.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPRAYED ON: A ski trail, above, at Mohawk Mountain in West Cornwall, where Walt Schoenknecht pioneered snow making. Below, children prepare to take a run down Mohawk's training carpet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT1)
NEAR THE SUMMIT: Skiers on a chairlift head up Mount Peter, a family-run ski area in Warwick, N.Y. Amy Richardson, below, a daughter of the owners, cooks cheeseburgers for skiers young and old.
WAITING THEIR TURN: At the bottom of Mount Peter, skiers congregate near the lift for another ride to the top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT6)
FATHERS AND DAUGHTERS: Mike O'Neil, top, of Danbury, carries his daughter Morgan, 4, from the main lodge at Mohawk Mountain Ski Area in West Cornwall to the children's training carpet. Carol Lugar, above, is Mohawk's owner
 her father, Walt Schoenknecht, left, was its founder. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT7) MAP: MAP: A SHORT HAUL TO A WINTER WORKOUT: Here are some ski areas in the New York metropolitan region, with the vertical drop and number of trails for each. (pg.CT6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); CHILDREN (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



24 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: ... And the Honda S2000 Is Right Behind

BYLINE: By RICHARD S. CHANG

 BODY:
HONDA announced last week that the 2009 S2000 roadster would be the last. The decision was not entirely unexpected after the company scrapped plans last month for the next Acura NSX sports car. 
 When it was introduced in 1999, as a 2000 model, the S2000 was really unlike any car of its kind. Its 4-cylinder engine -- Honda enthusiasts referred to it by its engine code: F20C -- was only 2 liters, but made 240 horsepower. It had a redline of 9,000 r.p.m., and the car was most effective the closer you drove to that engine speed, which was a loud proposition. 
 Later models had some changes in powertrain, including a lower redline, but even today, driving an S2000 could be the closest thing to riding a motorcycle. The car was designed and built for pure fun by a company known for common sense -- 1999 was still the giddy beginnings of the Internet age. The Nasdaq was riding high, music was free, Apple sold its first iBook, Kobe still liked Shaq -- and the S2000 fit right in. Honda sold more than 110,000 S2000s (more than 65,000 in the United States).
 But now the fun and games have come to an end. The era of rising stock markets and real estate has been replaced by a deep recession. So in many ways it is fitting that Honda has decided to end sales of the car that symbolized the carefree attitude of the last 10 years.
 RICHARD S. CHANG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHECKERED FLAG: Honda pulled the plug on its 4-cylinder demon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORTS CARS (91%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



25 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: The Artist's Largest Work?

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
JEFF KOONS, an American artist who seems to be perpetually reinventing himself, may soon be taking on a new artistic role: renovator of a historic Upper East Side town house. 
 By spring, Mr. Koons, known for his appreciation of American kitsch, from giant puppies made of flowers to stainless-steel rabbits, may be immersed in a new vocabulary, talking mansard roofs, rusticated balustrades and other details of neo-Classical-style French architecture. 
 For two years now and counting, Mr. Koons has been in contract to buy a six-story limestone town house at 11 East 67th Street, owned for about 65 years by an internist who moved to New York from Paris during World War II. The house -- subdivided into apartments, a medical office, and even, for a time in the 1980s, a luxury health spa -- is in dire need of restoration. 
 The house had an asking price of $18.75 million when it was quietly marketed by a broker, Alf Namen, after the 2006 death of Dr. Robert Wallis. It was not listed on the shared listing system used by most Manhattan brokers.
 The closing was first delayed by a title dispute among the heirs of Dr. Wallis, who died at the age of 106, according to death notices submitted by two family factions. Mr. Koons was finally due to close last month, but asked for a two-month postponement, several people briefed on the transaction say. 
 The reason for the postponement was not disclosed, and Mr. Koons did not respond to several e-mail and telephone messages. The current contract price was not known either, but brokers who have been following the transaction over the last two years said it is likely to be in the $10 million to $12 million range, after Mr. Koons received a price reduction as the recession weakened the town-house market. 
 Word of the contract came after the house next door at 9 East 67th Street was sold in January for nearly $25 million by Janna Bullock, a developer who specializes in renovating town houses. 
 While waiting for the dispute about Dr. Wallis's house to work its way through Surrogate's Court, Mr. Koons toured Ms. Bullock's renovated house three times, twice with an engineer, and made a series of offers on the house, only to withdraw them and ask for a lower price, Ms. Bullock said. At the time, Mr. Koons's broker, Roger Erickson of Sotheby's International Realty, told brokers that Mr. Koons was interested in buying a house in move-in condition while renovations proceeded next door.
 According to this account, Mr. Koons at first offered $27 million, and when Ms. Bullock accepted, he knocked the offer down to $23 million and she accepted again. When he then asked to drop the price again to $20 million, she refused. The deal was off. 
 But Mr. Koons came back and made an offer of $25 million; it was again accepted. After the contract was drawn up, Mr. Koons reconsidered, and his lawyer said he would sign only if the price was reduced to $14 million. The deal was off again. Ms. Bullock's broker, Richard Steinberg of Warburg Realty, confirmed the account of the failed transaction. 
 In searching for an Upper East Side town house, Mr. Koons may be emulating Andy Warhol, who despite his controversial art and lifestyle lived for most of his life in two traditional Upper East Side town houses, both on the market for a time last year. (Neither sold.) 
 Mr. Koons now lives on several floors of an Upper East Side town house a few blocks away with his wife, Justine, and their children. An earlier marriage -- to a Hungarian-born porn star and eventual member of the Italian parliament known as Cicciolina -- ended in divorce. 
 The 23-foot-wide town house at 11 East 67th was built in 1881. In its early years it was owned by Joseph B. Bloomingdale, a founder of the department store.
 Dr. Wallis settled on the Upper East Side in 1941. His wife, Diana Wallis, bought No. 11 in 1944. At that time, it had a value, for tax purposes, of $78,000. When they were divorced in the 1950s, Dr. Wallis got the house, with the provision that it be left in trust to their two sons. 
 After Dr. Wallis's death, his subsequent wife, Celestina Wallis, now 93, and his surviving son and grandchildren were in litigation in Surrogate's Court in a case that blocked the sale of the house for many months. In the 1980s the Wallises ran a salon, Anushka Institute, at the town house. Dr. Wallis supervised the salon's weight-loss program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Puppy'' by Jeff Koons (PHOTOGRAPH BY EPA/MIGUEL TONA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); DEATHS (67%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



26 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2402 words

HEADLINE: Snowy Slopes, Within Easy Reach

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: WEST Cornwall, Conn. 

 BODY:
 STANDING in the old wooden lodge of the Mohawk Mountain Ski Area here last month, Carol Lugar gazed at a 60-year-old photograph of her father holding what resembles an oversize garden hose. A mist emanates from the hose, and snow is all around. The picture shows one of the earliest snow-making systems in America, an invention that saved the ski industry in the Eastern United States.
 ''It was funny growing up with a father who everyone thought was nuts for trying to make snow,'' said Ms. Lugar, who now owns the ski area founded by her father, Walt Schoenknecht. ''When he died in 1987 and snow making was on every ski area in the country, people thought he was a little less nuts.''
 To the west, about 50 miles north of Manhattan in the Hudson River Valley, Macy's executives opened the Mount Peter Ski Area in 1936 because they wanted a country setting to demonstrate and exhibit the store's ski equipment and apparel. Babe Ruth came to ski, as did other celebrities. 
 Seventy-three years later, Mount Peter in Warwick welcomes about 50,000 visitors a year, with a regular clientele from as far away as Long Island.
 ''Mount Peter has been here a long time and struggled financially many years, but it never closed,'' said Gail Sampson, who along with her husband, Don, has owned the ski area for 38 years. ''Now we have grandparents who learned to ski here bringing grandkids back to teach them to ski.''
 There are nearly a dozen ski areas in the metropolitan New York area, and given their proximity to the country's largest ski and snowboarding market, it is not surprising that they have played a major role in the history of American snow sports. 
 What may be overlooked is how essential these small, mostly family-run ski areas remain to the soul, spirit and financial future of the sport.
 They are not only feeder systems for the larger ski areas of New England, New York and the Rocky Mountains, they are valuable community resources, affordable places of outdoor recreation and prized winter playgrounds where countless children are introduced to skiing or snowboarding.
 To stand on the sun deck beside the trails of Mohawk Mountain at lunchtime on a crisp winter afternoon, surrounded by a sea of smiling young faces, is to understand the worth of a small, accessible ski area.
 ''I miss seeing snowmen on lawns when I'm driving in the winter these days,'' Ms. Lugar said, as she pondered the appeal of her ski area. ''The new, increased structure of kids' lives prevents some things. But a small ski area offers kids freedom. They can take a run on their own, and they can come play in the snow. There's a freedom for the parents, too. So I'm glad we can do that for them.''
 Ms. Lugar's life story is typical of those in ski-area management. It is rarely a career choice but more a mix of lifestyle, avocation and advocacy. Born the year Mohawk Mountain opened 61 years ago, Ms. Lugar was raised in a tiny apartment affixed to the Mohawk lodge. ''The ski trails were just a big backyard to me,'' she said.
 Her father and mother, Peg, were skiers from the New Haven area, with Mr. Schoenknecht a particularly ardent skiing advocate who believed everyone should try the sport. Mohawk would be the place where he could breed thousands of converts to skiing.
 ''But there were snowless winters, and it bothered him to no end that he couldn't control the weather,'' Ms. Lugar said, seated in her Mohawk office late last month. ''So first he experimented with crushed ice. He imported tons of ice from local ponds and refrigeration plants and spread it on the hill with a bulldozer.''
 The ice melted quickly. It was time to think of something else. For much of the 20th century, Connecticut had dozens of tobacco farms, and Mr. Schoenknecht observed how they would spray the leaves with a mist from compressed air and water guns. He approached some engineers with the idea of a similar machine that would produce snow.
 Some continue to argue over who installed the first snow-making system that blanketed the ground with artificial snow, but, according to Jeff Leich, the executive director of the New England Ski Museum in Franconia, N.H., Mr. Schoenknecht is widely credited with opening Mohawk's slopes in the largely snowless winter of 1948-49 with a machine-made ski surface. 
 Mr. Schoenknecht, who also went on to build Mount Snow in southern Vermont, was inducted in 1979 into the National Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
 It was a rudimentary snow-making effort, but it was revolutionary and helped paved the way for the sophisticated operations that have made hundreds of ski areas in the Northeast economically viable today.
 ''Maybe I'd be a trust-fund baby now if Dad had gotten some patents for what he was doing,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''But he didn't. To him, the snow making was just a means to an end, a way to get people skiing.''
 Ms. Lugar worked at Mohawk and Mount Snow growing up and then ventured to Western ski resorts where she became a ski patroller and ski instructor. She branched out to the hotel and hospitality end of the business after realizing that if she worked at night she would be free to ski all day.
 In 1982, with her father ailing from prostate cancer, she came back to help run Mohawk. She rediscovered that a ski area -- a place of respite for visitors -- is four or more consecutive months of seven-day-a-week, 10-hour workdays for the top employees. There are the dozens of full- and part-time employees to manage; enormous energy and snow-making costs to budget; a large food service operation to run; a marketing arm that requires strategy and skill; community relations, insurance and liability concerns; a ski school to direct; and racing programs to supervise.
 But Ms. Lugar enjoyed the atmosphere. ''You're surrounded by people having fun,'' she said. ''And that invigorates you.''
 She built a house across the street from Mohawk where she raised her two children.
 On July 18, 1989, a tornado ripped through northwestern Connecticut, destroying every lift on Mohawk Mountain. Pieces of the lodge roof and lift chairs were sucked into the air and hurled miles away. The trails were strewn with fallen trees and debris.
 With damage estimated at $2 million, Ms. Lugar wondered if Mohawk could be rebuilt. 
 Steve Hedden, who is the son of Mohawk's first official employee and whom Ms. Lugar has known all her life, had become a part-owner a few years earlier and taken control of on-mountain operations.
 ''One day not long after the tornado, Steve was pounding on my door at 5:30 in the morning,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''He said to me, 'Come on, we've got work to do.' And so we started cleaning everything up.''
 The rest of the ski industry pitched in, sending crews who volunteered their time. Ski resort engineers arrived and worked for free to help restore the lifts.
 ''There were owners of little ski areas in Colorado sending us checks for $100,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''They would include a note, 'Sorry we can't be physically there but maybe this will help.' ''
 Mohawk reopened four months later, although Ms. Lugar conceded it was probably 10 years before Mohawk completely recovered.
 ''We had to do it,'' Mr. Hedden, 64, said last month. ''You couldn't let something good like Mohawk die.''
 Besides, he wasn't about to start a new career. ''I'm too lazy to go to work,'' said Mr. Hedden, who works at least 60 hours a week during the winter, not including some nights that stretch into the wee hours if there is a snow-making complication. ''I'm at a ski area all day long. That's not work.''
 MOUNT PETER'S Don Sampson was also born the same year that the ski area he owns opened to the public, although unlike Ms. Lugar, Mr. Sampson was not present for the inaugural years. 
 Mr. Sampson, now 72, came to Mount Peter in 1966 to run its ski school and met his wife, Gail, at a Mount Peter ski club meeting a few years later. They've been married 40 years -- all of it in the ski business.
 In 1971, when it looked as if Mount Peter would close, the Sampsons took out a small business loan and bought the area.
 ''The first winter we were owners it snowed like a banshee, the place was packed and we thought we were geniuses,'' said Mrs. Sampson, 60. ''Then it didn't snow for another six or seven winters, and boy, we were hurting.''
 To make ends meet, while running the ski area, Gail also worked in a bank and Don had a construction business. They lived in an apartment above the one base lodge and raised two daughters there. Along the way, they held some other odd jobs and waited for the snow-making and snow-grooming technology to get better -- and cheaper, so a small area (Mount Peter has 10 trails, a fraction of the number at large ski areas) could afford it.
 By the 1980s, the snow making and grooming was much improved. Mr. Sampson said it once took him six days to cover one trail with manmade snow; nowadays he can cover six trails in 24 hours.
 But business was still unpredictable for small ski areas, and many were closing. 
 Various gas and energy crunches kept people away, the weather was iffy and more skiers seemed to be gravitating toward bigger mountains. The Sampsons considered yearly offers to sell the hillside that made up Mount Peter, especially since Orange County, its location, was experiencing a housing boom.
 ''As you get older you say, 'I could be on a Florida beach right now instead of worrying about snow-making temperatures or whether the soda dispenser is still working,' '' Mrs. Sampson said.
 But the Sampsons never sold.
 ''It's a crazy business, but this was our home, and we just couldn't leave it,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''A lot of people came here and had fun. We stayed because of our kids, who were happy. And we thought they might want to run it someday.''
 In the 1990s, business started to rebound, and Mount Peter reinvested profits into snow making to ensure a more reliable product. 
 People who learned to ski at Mount Peter in the 1960s and '70s now had children, and when it came time for them to learn to ski or snowboard, they were drawn to the small-mountain environment they remembered.
 ''We acknowledged our place in the business and focused on it,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''And when you say you are a mom and pop place and cater to moms and dads, it all works a lot better.''
 The Sampsons' daughters, Rebecca Sampson, 35, and Amy Richardson, 33, each went off to college, but have now returned and are actively running the ski area.
 ''We've come a long way, and I think part of it is that people are looking for a small mountain experience in their lives,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''People at small mountains are more courteous and look out for each other. Parents come here, sit in the lodge and look up at the mountain knowing that every trail comes right back to the lodge, so it's easy to keep tabs on your kids.
 ''We're unpretentious. We have a steep expert trail, but on weekends 95 percent of the people are using our beginner terrain.''
 The Sampsons say they root for every small mountain in the region, viewing none as direct competition.
 ''We all need each other, and the ski industry needs all of us to promote the sport,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''If we were gone, prices would go up, and only the affluent could learn to ski. In the end, there would be a lot fewer people driving to Vermont, too. Skiers don't grow on trees -- they grow to love the sport at the local mountain.''
 IN New Jersey, the northwestern hills of Sussex County were once mostly quarries and craggy cliffs, so isolated they were dubbed ''the Ice Box of New Jersey.'' In the 1960s, entrepreneurs saw promise in the barren landscape and built not one, but two, successful ski areas. By the 1970s, according to Skiing Magazine, more people were learning to ski in New Jersey than in any other state in the nation. 
 The two ski areas have since evolved into Mountain Creek, a 45-trail complex that has embraced snowboarding and new school skiers, who use twin-tip skis to play in the area's terrain parks. Mountain Creek produced Danny Kass, a silver medalist in snowboarding at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and the 2006 Games in Turin, Italy.
 ''I grew up with a local mountain in my backyard,'' Kass said at the Games in Utah when asked about his New Jersey roots. ''When I was a kid, it was like Aspen to me.''
 Eleven years ago, Intrawest, a ski industry corporate giant, bought what was then the Vernon Valley/Great Gorge ski area, about 12 miles south of Mount Peter. Intrawest pumped many millions of dollars into the facilities and lifts for the newly named Mountain Creek.
 The Sampsons did not fear for their place in the market.
 ''Different clientele,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''We know that when teenagers get old enough to drive, they'll want to go there. That's O.K.''
 Mountain Creek further separated itself from other ski areas in the region last year by dedicating almost half its trails to a terrain park with features for snowboarders and new school skiers. The lodge near these slopes got a cultural makeover, too, with a younger, adventure sports, theme. Mountain Creek officials said the changes have been a success, and that they have received positive reactions in guest satisfaction surveys.
 Mountain Creek, the biggest ski area in the metropolitan area and a snowboarders' haven, is used by two to three times the number of skiers and snowboarders as other nearby smaller mountains.
 At Mohawk Mountain, during the holiday week as the year began, the old wooden lodge was brimming with families, and it seemed, seniors. 
 Some parents had laptops propped on the picnic tables (the lodge installed wireless Internet three years ago). Teenagers strolled about attached to iPods. Young children gathered around the candy counter. A cat slept on a sunny outside railing. It was a thriving mix, even ethnically, which is somewhat uncommon at a ski area.
 ''We have Hispanic and Indian groups that visit regularly,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''We have to keep encouraging that kind of thing to support the notion that this is a sport for everyone. In that way, I think my mom and dad would be pretty proud of what Mohawk has become.''
 And while it had not snowed for several days, the white outlines of two dozen Mohawk trails were visible several miles from the mountain. That's a picture, 60 years later, that would have pleased Walt Schoenknecht.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPRAYED ON: A ski trail, above, at Mohawk Mountain in West Cornwall, Conn., where Walt Schoenknecht pioneered snow making. Below, children prepare to take a run down Mohawk's training carpet.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
NEAR THE SUMMIT: Skiers on a chairlift head up Mount Peter, a family-run ski area in Warwick. Amy Richardson, below, a daughter of the owners, cooks cheeseburgers for skiers young and old.
WAITING THEIR TURN: At the bottom of Mount Peter, skiers congregate near the lift for another ride to the top.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6)
FATHERS AND DAUGHTERS: Mike O'Neil, top, of Danbury, Conn., carries his daughter Morgan, 4, from the main lodge at Mohawk Mountain Ski Area in West Cornwall to the children's training carpet. Carol Lugar, above, is Mohawk's owner
 her father, Walt Schoenknecht, left, was its founder.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE7) MAP: A Short Haul to a Winter Workout: Here are some ski areas in the New York metropolitan region, with the vertical drop and number of trails for each.(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); CHILDREN (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



27 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: For Warner, Jersey No. 13 Is Emblem of Spirituality

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla. 

 BODY:
Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner is a born-again Christian whose faith informs his every decision, right down to his jersey number. By choosing No. 13, Warner means to send the message that his spirituality allows no room for superstition. 
 He was one of five players on the active rosters of the 32 N.F.L. teams to wear No. 13 in 2008. The others were wide receiver Steve Johnson of Buffalo and quarterbacks Richard Bartel of Cleveland, Brock Berlin of St. Louis and Shaun Hill of San Francisco. 
 Warner is the sixth Cardinal since the franchise joined the league in 1920 to wear the number, and perhaps the last. After leading the franchise to its first Super Bowl, Warner may have his jersey retired someday to the team's Ring of Honor. 
 ''A lot of people believe 13 is an unlucky number,'' Warner said, ''but I've kind of embraced it.''
 He added: ''A lot of negative things come with the No. 13. My life is never dictated by superstitions. My faith is first and foremost. If you believe that God's in control, there is no reason to believe in superstitions.'' 
 One former Cardinal, a Hall of Famer, wore No. 13 for different reasons. His full name, Donald Maynard, has 13 letters, and M is the 13th letter of the alphabet. 
 Maynard also considered the birthdays of his father, July 13; his sister, Aug. 13; and his wife, Sept. 13; and his wedding anniversary, Dec. 13. Growing up, Maynard attended 13 schools. 
 Warner did not have to look far to be reminded that his number was not widely embraced. The Cardinals' hotel here skips to the 14th floor from the 12th. 
 NO BARGAINS Ticket prices for the Super Bowl are weathering the economic storm. Late Saturday morning, Jim Holzman, the chief executive of Ace Ticket, said that the average reselling price for an $800 seat, the most common ticket, was $1,700. There had been speculation a couple of days ago that the resale price would drop to face value a day or two before the Super Bowl, but that did not happen.
 Holzman said the values had fluctuated wildly, spiking at $2,200 last week and dropping as low as $1,400 a few days ago.
 ''People see the market go down, and what happens is that it creates a couple of planeloads of people coming down to take advantage,'' Holzman said. ''But if too many of them come, they spike up again.''
 Holzman said he expected the makeup of the crowd during Sunday's game to be different. Typically, he said, a Super Bowl crowd is divided relatively evenly into four factions: corporate customers, neutral hard-core N.F.L. fans, fans of one team and fans of the other.
 But he said he believed the economy had shrunk the number of corporate customers and neutral fans, their tickets being gobbled up by fans of the Steelers (especially) and the Cardinals.
 ''It'll be a great crowd and a great environment,'' Holzman said. JOHN BRANCH
 COIN TOSS Gen. David H. Petraeus, the head of United States Central Command, will toss the coin before the game. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SPORTS FANS (77%); TICKET SALES (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA CARDINALS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



28 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Handing Out The Pink Slips Can Hurt, Too

BYLINE: By MATT COOPER. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen. E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I'M vice president for strategy and operations at Accolo, a recruitment outsourcing company near San Francisco. I also run the sales organization and manage our finances, so I have a unique view of our revenue and expenses. I'm the first to notice an imbalance, which means that I'm the one to sound the alarm if we need to lay people off. I had to do that last November. 
 We had 54 employees in three offices -- in Larkspur, near San Francisco; Chicago; and New York. When I took a look at our projections for the remainder of the year, I knew it was time to alert the rest of the executive team. Between the dismal news about the economy and our clients' estimates about their future hiring, we had to reduce the size of the staff in order to survive. I called a meeting of our C.E.O. and the vice presidents for client services and technology and gave them the news. 
 We tried to find ways to reduce costs instead, but there was just no way. I know the minimum number of staff members we need in each area to deliver a certain level of service, and we were going to have to cut to that number. The four of us got together and looked at sales, human resources, client services and our technical development team. 
 We had already laid off six people a year ago, so it wasn't easy finding more. The hardest part was going through names. That made it very personal.
 It was gut-wrenching knowing that a bomb was about to go off. I had hired and trained many of these people. We wanted to be as humane as we could in letting them go. I was an investment banker at a large financial services company in 2002 when there were several waves of layoffs. It was awful.
 (During one round there, a vice president called people into a conference room one by one, told them the news and had them walk back to their desks and pack their personal belongings. Then they had to leave with their box. At one point, one of my buddies was literally hiding in my cube, and the vice president had to come and find him.)
 At Accolo, the other executives and I decided we'd hold a teleconference and announce the news at all three locations simultaneously. On Tuesday of that week in November, we called an all-hands meeting for Thursday. I flew from San Francisco to our New York office on Thursday morning because I wanted to be the one to tell the New York employees who reported directly to me, and I wanted to do it in person.
 When I walked in the door, the whole office got quiet. One or two people sighed. Another person broke the tension by saying, ''It's good to see you, Matt.'' A few employees laughed at that. They knew what was coming. We discuss our revenue and projects at weekly status meetings, so they were aware of the problems. 
 We all went to the conference room, and John, our C.E.O., spoke first. He said the market had continued to deteriorate and that we had to get our expenses in line with our revenue if we were going to survive. 
 Then I spoke and told everyone that our biggest expense was headcount and that we had to lay a few people off. I said that the executives were going to leave the room, call people out one by one, and help those whose jobs were being eliminated to pack. We hoped to save them from embarrassment. 
 I called the two employees to be laid off in that office out of the room first. When I told them, one by one, that they were on the list, I was amazed at the responses. You never know how people will react. Some might get angry. 
 The first person I told was the last to be hired, so he half-expected it. But he had just been laid off from another job three months earlier, so I felt doubly bad. The other employee felt bad for me. She said she was so sorry I had to do this. I couldn't believe she was so selfless. I'd like to think it says a lot about the culture we've tried to develop.
 Then I returned to the conference room and told the others that we were done, that no one else was affected. I said I would still meet with each of them to discuss any concerns they might have. 
 I may have sounded calm, but I was shell-shocked like everyone else. I kept thinking, ''How could this be happening to us?'' We weren't cutting low performers, and it felt as if the company was weaker for it, even though it was necessary to keep going. 
 We offered as much severance as we could, and the other executives and I told the remaining employees that we didn't want to close the door on those who lost their jobs.. We encouraged them to reach out to their ex-colleagues and keep in touch. Then we all got on LinkedIn and wrote endorsements for those who were laid off. Our clients are midsize businesses. John called a company similar to ours whose clients are large businesses. He told them that we'd had to let employees go and recommended the people. That company hired two from the Larkspur office.
 AS an executive, the hard part for me is looking back. 
 We had to lay people off to keep the company healthy, but you start second-guessing yourself. You wonder what you might have missed. It's easy in a market like this to tell yourself it's not your fault. Some of the best-known companies and managers are making the same decision. That might be true, but it seems like a flimsy excuse. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Cooper, a vice president of Accolo, a recruitment outsourcing company, at desks recently vacated by employees at the company's headquarters in Larkspur, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



29 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: All May Not Be Lost For the American Car

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
It's not news that Detroit is in the ditch, battered by both a frightful economy and self-inflicted woes. General Motors and Chrysler have already tapped Washington for $17.4 billion in emergency loans to avoid bankruptcy, and given the plight of the American auto industry that looks like a first installment of taxpayer funds.
 The prognosis seems grim indeed. Yet is there a hopeful note amid the gloom? Is there a case to be made that the car industry actually could revive itself, instead of ending up in a coffin? 
 History and technology suggest that there may be -- provided, of course, that the Big 3 can survive the next few years. And that's a big if. The hopeful path, auto and labor experts say, requires rethinking not just old-line management and work practices but also how cars are sold, serviced and powered -- that is, reinventing the industry and the car itself. 
 Such a shift would mark a return, in a sense, to the industry's innovative roots. After all, there were more than 3,000 automobile start-ups in American from 1900 to 1925, turning out autos of every imaginable design, variously powered by steam, electricity and then gasoline. Some had six wheels, others had shiplike tillers for steering. Detroit was the Silicon Valley of its day.
 ''The auto industry did so much to create 20th-century America, and how we handle this crisis that the industry is facing now could have a very large influence on 21st-century America,'' observed Douglas Brinkley, a historian at Rice University and author of ''Wheels for the World: Henry Ford, His Company and a Century of Progress'' (Penguin, 2003).
 Today, the Detroit automakers, foreign producers and start-ups are all pursuing alternative technologies like battery-powered cars, and exploring new business ideas like offering auto transportation as a subscription service, much like the cellphone business. 
 ''The technology is beginning to appear to make us think very differently about cars,'' said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research, a nonprofit organization in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''And whole new business models are becoming possible and likely.''
 The annual auto show in Detroit in January was a celebration of electric-car plans and prototypes, including the Chevrolet Volt and Ford's Project M car. Better Place, a start-up based in Palo Alto, Calif., has gained pledges of support from Israel, Denmark, Australia, Ontario, the State of Hawaii and a coalition of cities in Northern California for its plan to offer electric vehicles with swappable batteries and a battery recharging network. Renault-Nissan will manufacture the electric cars, and Better Place is hoping to sign up American automakers as well.
 Government policy and incentives could prod things along, especially given the new administration's ambitious designs to curb pollution, encourage alternative fuels and improve energy efficiency. In January, a lithium-ion battery startup, A123 Systems, applied for a $1.8 billion loan from the Department of Energy to build a series of car-battery plants, the first in southeast Michigan, that could mark the beginning of a new industry, just as Detroit in its heyday generated waves of new companies and jobs in its wake.
 President Obama has also signaled that he would take an aggressive stance on auto pollution and fuel efficiency. He told federal regulators last week to move swiftly on an application by California and 13 others states to set strict limits on greenhouse gases from cars, and to draw up rules setting higher fuel-economy standards. His orders, Mr. Obama explained, were intended ''to ensure that the fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow are built right here in America.''
 Companies like G.M. and Ford, experts say, have often caught up to their Japanese rivals in terms of the quality and durability of the cars they produce, even if car buyers don't yet appreciate it. The Chevy Malibu matches the quality of a Honda Accord or Toyota Camry, but G.M. typically prices its comparable car at $2,000 less, after rebates, estimates James Womack, an expert on auto manufacturing who heads the Lean Enterprise Institute, a research organization.
 Consumer perceptions -- and Detroit's pricing -- should eventually shift to take account of the improvement in the quality of American cars, Mr. Womack said, adding ''if the U.S. companies can stay in the game.''
 That, of course, is the question. The credit crisis and the worldwide economic slump have pushed the industry to the edge. Car sales have collapsed. Even Toyota, the global leader in manufacturing efficiency, conceded in December that its auto business would report a yearly loss for the first time in 70 years. Ford lost $14.6 billion in 2008, the worst loss in its 105-year history.
 Later this month, G.M. and Chrysler must hand the Obama administration their plans to weather the immediate threat. But Washington, with funds already invested and more likely to come, will inevitably have a say in charting Detroit's long-term course. ''The critical national policy goals should be to ensure a vibrant manufacturing base and provide healthy middle-class jobs, and the domestic auto industry is essential to both,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who was on Mr. Obama's short list for labor secretary.
 In good times, Detroit made ample profits, despite paying generous wages, Mr. Shaiken notes. ''The goal for the United States as a nation should be to be a high-wage economy,'' he said. ''The high road to economic prosperity means high productivity, innovation and high wages.''
 The road to recovery may lie outside Detroit, however. Better Place, the Silicon Valley start-up, is promoting a bold vision of an electric future for the auto industry. Its emerging model involves a network of battery plugs at homes, shopping districts and work, where cars would recharge during the 22 hours a day, on average, that they are parked. For longer trips, beyond 100 miles, there would be battery-exchange sites -- probably located at bays in today's gas stations.
 Better Place intends to sell cars for about $25,000 and include rebates for customers signing several-year contracts, much like cellphone customers, who pay for use. ''We're selling mobility as a service,'' said Michael Granoff, head of oil-independence policies at the company. ''It gives the auto industry a different business model.''
 Better Place sees itself as both a company and a catalyst for change. It has no plans to manufacture cars itself, and hopes to win over more carmakers beyond the Renault and Nissan. In America, a nation that has adopted a low-price gasoline policy, unlike other developed nations, the infrastructure costs of electric plugs, parking spots and battery-exchange stations will require local, state and federal government loans and incentives, Mr. Granoff said. 
 Better Place, like most startups, may well fail. ''But it has the right idea in the sense that what is needed is a rethinking of the car and mobility as a service, in tune with the long-term trends in energy and climate change,'' said Mr. Womack, the business researcher.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HISTORY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



30 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL TOYOTA LAND CRUISER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Downsizing? Fat Chance!

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
AT a reunion a while back, a former classmate rushed up excitedly to say hello. But the fellow had put on so many pounds I had to shoot a furtive glance at his ''Hello! My Name Is...'' tag.
 ''Of course,'' I stammered. ''So good to see you again.''
 This encounter came back to me last year when I laid eyes on the redesigned Toyota Land Cruiser. Here's another old friend who seems to have ballooned to almost unrecognizable dimensions.
 Toyota's new temple of tumescence is nearly three feet longer, two feet wider and a ton heavier than the original Land Cruiser of 1954-55. But just like my esteemed but portly old friend, the two versions are still about the same height. 
 Their girth notwithstanding, I retain fond feelings for both the classmate and the Cruiser.
 The Land Cruiser will always have an honored place in Toyota history, because it is perhaps the vehicle that saved the company. When Toyota began exporting cars to the United States a half-century ago, its first model, the crummy Toyopet sedan, was such a failure that the company almost retreated home. It took Toyota years to design better cars, but in the interim it kept a tenuous toehold in the American market by selling a few of its sturdy Land Cruisers -- the Jeep of Japan. Through the decades since, the Land Cruiser has survived as many competitors have faded -- because it has built a cult following and because it has proved as durable as a cast-iron skillet.
 Interestingly, sales of the new Land Cruiser increased 16.5 percent last year, even in a dismal auto market that was especially hostile to large S.U.V.'s. Indeed, Land Cruiser sales had jumped a whopping 82 percent through October before the bottom fell out in the final two months. 
 Resale values are legendarily high. For instance, in 1958 a new Land Cruiser sold for about $3,000. Nowadays, if you could find one, a pristine example might fetch 20 times as much. And, yes, that's about what the 2009 model costs.
 Today's platinum-priced model, part of the seventh generation that made its debut last year, starts at $65,500 and tops out around $73,000. If you're wondering, the similar Lexus LX 570 starts at $76,530; fully loaded, it's $84,000 and change.
 If pricing is figured on a per-pound basis, maybe the new Land Cruiser's price increase adds up. Between generations six and seven, as the exterior dimensions grew by an inch or two here and there, its curb weight gained an entire Charles Barkley. Officially, the Land Cruiser weighs 5,690 pounds, but it tipped the scales at 5,900 when Car and Driver magazine weighed it.
 The increased bulk can be traced to a sturdier hydroformed frame, larger axles, heavy-duty brakes and the upgrading of its powerplant to a massive 5.7-liter V-8 truck engine and a 6-speed automatic transmission. A lot more insulation and road-isolation technology have been designed in, giving the S.U.V. a quieter ride worthy of a Lexus.
 While only a privileged few can afford this plus-size sport utility, they can surely appreciate that it runs on regular unleaded even while producing 381 horsepower and 401 pound-feet of torque.
 Although that is 44 percent more horsepower than its pallid predecessor offered, fuel economy is marginally better. But the federal rating of 13 miles a gallon in city driving is nothing to brag about (although its ULEV-II emissions rating is). I managed to get around 15 m.p.g., in 300 miles of mostly highway motoring out to Southern California's deserts and back to the beach. At a steady 55 m.p.h., the 18 m.p.g. highway rating might be achievable, but I couldn't keep the thing moving that slowly. 
 High speeds are expected of Land Cruisers in parts of the world where the vehicle is popular and prestigious -- think of Africa, Australia and the Middle East -- and where the sticker price and mileage may matter less. Owners in countries with dodgy highway infrastructures also demand unexcelled off-road abilities to go with the Land Cruiser's best-in-class power and reliability.
 So why did Toyota reduce the new model's ground clearance, and the approach, departure and break-over angles that are so crucial in hard-core off-roading? A height-adjustable suspension might have compensated for those losses, but one is not offered.
 Another head-scratcher: Why is the housing of the rear differential made of lightweight (and relatively fragile) aluminum?
 Gone, at least, is the old torsion bar suspension. In its place is a double-wishbone independent front suspension with inboard coilover gas-pressure shock absorbers; the setup is carlike, yet thoroughly capable. In back, there's a more robust four-link coil spring and Panhard bar setup controlling the industrial-strength solid axle from the Tundra pickup.
 The full-time four-wheel-drive system, with selectable 2.62:1 low-range gearing, is enhanced by Crawl Control and Downhill Assist Control; both functions maintain slow but constant speed during the gnarliest trail-busting. 
 A Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System, which made its debut on the 2004 Lexus GX, is also new here; it enables the front and rear antiroll bars to stiffen or relax automatically as sensors determine changes in traction. This lets the Land Cruiser corner flatter and provides four more inches of up-and-down movement for the wheels. When back on pavement, the kinetic system automatically disengages.
 For hard-duty off-roading, Dunlop Grandtreks are the best of three 280/60 series tires available. The wheels are 18-inch alloys. 
 Off road, the Land Cruiser ably deflected my best efforts to unsettle it. But an advanced degree in engineering would be helpful in figuring out its trickiest features, like Crawl Control. To activate it, the transmission must be in Drive, although you need to be in Neutral to engage the center diff-lock. The transmission's Snow Mode must be switched off, although the stability and traction controls need to be on. 
 Don't forget to turn off the side curtain air bags; you could get an up-close demonstration of their pyrotechnic deployment if the vehicle's lean angle becomes too extreme. Toggle between the three speed modes (1, 2 or 3 m.p.h.) on the fly (so to speak), but don't step on the brake pedal or throttle. (Touching the brakes turns the system off.) 
 It is best not to experiment with this while aimed nearly vertical on a hillside.
 Operator errors with Land Rover's similar Terrain Response System, and the expensive repairs that may result, are one reason that brand's reliability ratings consistently circle the drain. Time will tell whether Land Cruiser newbies are savvy enough to avoid similar gaffes.
 Should you find yourself pin-balling down some boulder-strewn ravine, however, you'll be relieved to know that the Land Cruiser has full skid plates underneath. There's also four-wheel multiterrain antilock brakes, electronic brake-force distribution and brake assist that works in conjunction with the traction and stability-control systems. Inside, there are more air bags than a Bouncy Castle.
 Standard comforts include 12 cup holders, 28 air vents and a premium audio system with 14 speakers. There's a power moonroof, leather seats (heated in front), a tilt-telescoping steering column, four-zone air-conditioning and three rows of seats for up to eight adventure-seekers. Children only in the back, please.
 That brings up another nit: Not only is the third-row seat cramped, it doesn't store flat; instead it folds up and to the sides and cannot be removed without tools. Between the last-generation Land Cruiser and this one, nine cubic feet of cargo capacity was lost. Maximum cargo space is now 81.7 cubic feet with the second and third rows out of the way.
 Towing capacity has increased. If you need to pull an 8,500-pound trailer, you are now cleared for takeoff. And up on the roof, there's a standard rack that can handle a 450-pound load.
 Options include a rear-seat DVD entertainment system and a navigation system with backup camera. Such a camera should be mandatory on any vehicle with such Olympian dimensions.
 Over all, if you can cope with the Land Cruiser's high price, low mileage, monolithic size and amorphous shape, it offers some rewards. It will climb mountains like a Sherpa, haul heavy cargo and probably outlive its driver. But if the aim is only to make a statement with the car pool, the overcapable Land Cruiser is notably inappropriate, akin to hunting squirrels with a bazooka.
 INSIDE TRACK: Sumo-size me!

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEAT OF POWER: The Land Cruiser remains popular and prestigious in much of the world. (pg.AU1)
 TALE OF TWO TOYOTAS: Sequoia, left, and Land Cruiser, below, were redesigned just as the S.U.V. market fell. (pg.AU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SEDANS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



31 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Suit Challenges Image of Circus Elephants as Willing Performers

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the most iconic images of American life, that of circus elephants joined trunk-to-tail as they lumber along to delight ''children of all ages,'' as the old saying goes, is about to be debated in a courtroom.
 Are the beasts docile because they are highly intelligent and respond well to training, reinforced with the promise of apples, carrots, water and kindness at day's end? Or do they obey because their spirits have been broken and they fear getting hit by their trainers? 
 These are among the questions that will be asked when a lawsuit by a coalition of animal rights' groups against the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey circus and its parent company opens in federal court here on Wednesday. 
 In the complaint, the plaintiffs say the circus's Asian elephants sleep and travel in cramped, filthy quarters and are routinely prodded, even bloodied, with special clubs or ''bull hooks.'' The idea that the animals are happy ''and allowed to roam free and to socialize'' is an illusion created by the circus and its parent, Feld Entertainment Inc. of Vienna, Va., the plaintiffs say.
 But the defendants say in court papers that the elephants are ''healthy and well cared for'' and that they are attended to by veterinarians around the clock. The elephants' quarters are roomy and well ventilated, heated when necessary, and tended by crews with shovels and hoses at the ready, the defendants say.
 Moreover, they say, the club or ''guide'' used by a trainer is no more cruel than a leash on a dog or a bridle on a horse, and what few injuries occur are minor and easily treated.
 Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court will try the case without a jury, at the request of the plaintiffs. They seek an injunction barring the circus from engaging in a number of practices they call cruel, including chaining the elephants for long stretches. 
 The defendants are asking the judge to dismiss the case. They argue that the plaintiffs have most of their ''facts'' wrong and are also wrong on the law, basing much of their case on the Endangered Species Act, which the defendants say Congress never intended to apply to animals in captivity.
 The plaintiffs include the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the Animal Welfare Institute and the Fund for Animals. Tracy Silverman, a lawyer for the Animal Welfare Institute, said she expected the trial to last up to three weeks. Asked whether a settlement is possible, she replied, ''Most likely not.''
 A lawyer for the defense, Michelle Pardo, said that the plaintiffs' case was ''false and distorted'' and that Ringling Brothers regularly passed inspections by federal, state and local authorities in its treatment of the animals. (The plaintiffs say those inspections are often rigged.) 
 With a shaky economy, conflicts abroad and a new president in the White House, a lawsuit over elephants may seem relatively unimportant. But people get emotional over the huge, intelligent and sociable creatures. 
 And there is big money at stake. Feld Entertainment says that its productions, which include ventures with the Walt Disney Company, are seen by 25 million people a year around the world, and that its 50 or so elephants are as much a part of the circus as clowns and trapeze artists. 
 ''In effect,'' the defense says, the plaintiffs ''are hoping to put an end to circus elephants.''
 But Ms. Silverman said, ''We simply want the elephants to be treated humanely and in accordance with the law.'' If her side wins, she said, Ringling Brothers ''would have to stop hitting elephants with bull hooks and keeping them in chains,'' except for veterinary care or another legitimate purpose.
 The plaintiffs say they will introduce videotape documenting mistreatment and will call several experts on elephants, as well as some current or former Ringling Brothers trainers. 
 The defense says that at least one former trainer and plaintiff, Tom Rider, is not to be believed because he has been on the payroll of the animal rights' groups. Ms. Silverman says Mr. Rider has received only ''a very modest amount'' of money for public relations work. 
 Feld Entertainment says it is committed not only to the safety and happiness of individual Asian elephants, but also to the species. It mentions having spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on breeding, conservation and research programs. 
 The parties have been battling for years, and will continue to do so no matter what Judge Sullivan decides. Feld Entertainment, in turn, has sued the A.S.P.C.A. and other animal groups, accusing them of violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. That case will be heard later, Ms. Pardo said.
 The emotions run deep -- and not just on the plaintiffs' side, apparently. Kenneth J. Feld, the chief executive of the circus company who took over after the death of his father, Irvin, in 1984, described elephants as his ''personal passion'' in a recent interview with Portfolio magazine.
 ''I love these animals,'' Mr. Feld said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among the issues is whether elephants are compliant because of positive reinforcement or fear. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH MEYERS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (92%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (86%); JUDGES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); VETERINARY SERVICES (74%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (83%); FELD ENTERTAINMENT INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



32 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: With Bookings Down, Ski-Trip Bargains

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
ATTENTION, powder hounds. It's still possible to find a deal at a wide range of ski areas this winter -- even at some of the most popular resorts.
 The Aspen/Snowmass ski area in Colorado is offering one free flight, a free night of lodging and a free day of skiing to travelers who book a four-night vacation at www.stayaspensnowmass.com/frontier with four days of lift tickets and at least two airline tickets on Frontier Airlines, the second-largest jet service carrier at Denver International Airport. Hotels.com is running a ski condo sale around the country with rates up to 25 percent off. 
 And Vail Resorts, which owns and operates four large ski areas in Colorado and the Heavenly Resort on the California and Nevada border, is offering deals at each, including three nights of lodging and three days of skiing for the price of two at Heavenly, where rates start at $85 a person a night at the Lakeside Inn & Casino. That's on top of 20 percent discounts on ski school programs through next Sunday. 
 The company's luxury hotel subsidiary, RockResorts -- including the Lodge at Vail, the Hotel Jerome in Aspen, Colo., and the Snake River Lodge & Spa in Jackson Hole, Wyo. -- is also offering guests who stay for at least two nights a free night, a free bottle of wine, and a $50 gift card for use in the resort or on the mountain at the company's ski resorts. 
 Such deals -- normally unheard of at this time of year -- are intended to increase visits as skiers and snowboarders cut back on spending. Aspen Skiing Co. said skier visits were down 8 percent over the holiday weeks of Christmas and New Year's compared with last year and projects that visits would fall between 5 and 15 percent for the season. 
 Vail Resorts reported an uptick in visitors over the holidays, but an overall drop of 5.8 percent in skier visits through Jan. 4 compared with the same period last year. Lift ticket revenue was down 7.5 percent, and bookings through Dec. 31 were down 14.8 percent. 
 ''People are coming, but they're not going to spend as much,'' said Rob Katz, chief executive officer of Vail Resorts. ''Ski school business was down more than everything else -- close to 20 percent.'' And people are spending less in restaurants, opting for a ''$30 bottle of wine versus a $100 bottle,'' he said. 
 Reservations are also coming in at the last minute. The week before Christmas, for example, Keystone Resort in Colorado quickly went from about 60 percent full to more than 90 percent, said Mr. Katz, sending reservation agents into a frenzy. 
 But the lag in bookings means more opportunities for travelers -- even during the popular Presidents' Day week. Sunday River in Newry, Me., for example, has lodging specials from $99 a person a night from Feb. 13 to 19 that include an adult ski or snowboarding lesson and a lift ticket.
 Ski.com, which specializes in mountain vacations to more than 80 popular resorts, is offering four nights in a two-bedroom condo at Crestview in Park City, Utah, with three-day lift tickets for $488 a person between Feb. 14 and 21, through a buy-one-night, get-one-free offer. For something more luxurious, how about three nights at the Four Seasons Resort Whistler and three-day lift tickets over Presidents' Day weekend for $596 a person, when two people share a room? 
 Flights have also come down significantly in price. A recent airfare search by Ski.com agents turned up fares as low as $239.40 round trip from Chicago to Salt Lake City on Northwest Airlines over Presidents' Day weekend and $233.40 round trip on United from New York to Jackson Hole departing Feb. 17 and returning Feb. 27. ''You could expect to pay between $500 and $700 for these flights last year,'' said Dan Sherman, a Ski.com spokesman. 
 ''I think that has really helped,'' said Mr. Katz of Vail Resorts. ''If airfare comes way down, it makes it easier to come back for a second vacation.'' 
 Resorts that rely heavily on air traffic, like those in the West, are offering the most alluring bargains. Delta Air Lines and Crested Butte Mountain Resort in Colorado have been advertising reduced rates to Gunnison-Crested Butte airport via Salt Lake City as low as $198 round trip from Phoenix or $298 from Austin, Tex., not including taxes. Travelers who book these deals through the Crested Butte Vacations reservation line (800-544-8448) can also ski free. Separately, the company is offering Ski & Stay packages starting from $100 a person a night in celebration of passing the 100-inch mark in snowfall.
 The slopeside Teton Mountain Lodge & Spa in Jackson Hole has slashed rates on its four-night Skier's Dream package by about $100 a night, compared with last year. Rates now start at $342 a person a night and include three days of lift tickets and daily breakfast. 
 Drive-to ski areas also have some bargains, but low gas prices, regular snowfall and the recession have helped draw skiers and boarders who might have otherwise headed elsewhere. Mountain High, just outside of Los Angeles, and Holiday Valley, about an hour from Buffalo, in Ellicottville, N.Y., reported visits up roughly 40 percent for the two weeks that included Christmas and New Year's, compared with last year, according to the National Ski Areas Association, which surveyed several dozen ski areas in January. Visits to Jiminy Peak in Massachusetts were up 4 percent for the holidays, and visits to the Okemo Resort in Vermont were up 7 percent. 
 ''The early December snow, difficulty of air travel, and overall economy caused people to stay close to home,'' said J. J. Toland, a spokesman for Sugarbush Resort in Vermont, which benefited from those trends but is still offering a free adult lesson to travelers who stay the night. ''People who might have traveled from New York City to a western resort instead loaded the family into the S.U.V. and headed to Sugarbush.''
 Killington in Vermont, where bookings are pacing ''well ahead of last season,'' a spokesman, Tom Horrocks, said, is offering two-day lift tickets for $100, March 21 to 22, down from $154, normally. And Mountain Creek, an Intrawest resort about an hour north of Manhattan that reports strong business from locals and steady bookings, is offering two-for-one lift tickets and lodging from $69.80 a person the week of Presidents' Day. 
 Of course, snow also helps. Holiday Valley attributes its surge in visits to receiving an extraordinary 176 inches of snowfall by mid-January. Normally, the ski area gets 180 inches of natural snow for the entire winter season. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING FACILITIES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); MOUNTAINS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (92%); HOTELS.COM LP (73%); ASPEN SKIING CO LLC (65%); KEYSTONE RESORT (50%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



33 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS FORT GREENE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, A Slice of the South

BYLINE: By DAN SHAW

 BODY:
ROBBIN GOURLEY and Jeffrey Stern never expected to live in Brooklyn. They settled in SoHo in 1984, when artists lived in raw lofts and galleries occupied most of the storefronts. 
 ''We bought a place on Crosby Street that was basically air,'' said Ms. Gourley, 56, an illustrator and author and the creative director of children's books for Farrar, Straus & Giroux. 
 It was not in good shape. ''We basically bought floors and some windows,'' said Mr. Stern, 56, a sound editor who commutes to the University of Miami, where he teaches in the motion pictures department. ''I spent a year working on it myself before we could move in.''
 By 1991, they had two children -- Hannah, then 7, and Luke, then 3 -- and needed more space. They found a rent-stabilized loft in TriBeCa before the Wall Street boom. They made only minor improvements, like adding a bathtub, but after five happy years, their landlord announced he wanted the loft back for his own use, Ms. Gourley said. 
 The couple were shocked that they could be forced from a rent-stabilized loft. ''It was a desperate situation,'' said Ms. Gourley. The landlord offered them a payout to move, ''and instead of fighting we took the money, which was the path of least resistance.''
 However, they could no longer afford Lower Manhattan. ''When I knew for sure that we were leaving TriBeCa,'' Ms. Gourley said, ''I got on my bicycle and set out for Brooklyn to explore different neighborhoods. I rode my bike around Brooklyn for an entire summer.''
 A real estate agent told her about a woebegone 19th-century brownstone in Fort Greene that was within her price range. ''I fell in love with the house,'' Ms. Gourley said, although the front was covered with graffiti, the previous occupants were crack addicts and the house had been chopped up into four apartments.
 ''We're do-it-yourselfers,'' she said, ''and we'd done such a beautiful job with the space on Crosby Street that I knew we could fix this place up.'' 
 She had come to believe that her husband had never met a construction challenge he would not take on.
 ''I grew up in a house full of tools,'' said Mr. Stern, who was raised on Long Island. ''My father was very handy, and he would never call anyone to fix anything. 'Why call someone?' he would say and he'd figure it out himself.'' 
 But when Mr. Stern saw the house, he said: ''No way. This is not happening.''
 The economic reality was that they had no choice. ''It was incredibly affordable,'' Mr. Stern said. They paid $350,000, although the house did not even have a full set of windows.
 The good news and bad news was that the house had none of its original details. ''We wouldn't be trying to restore it to its previous grandeur,'' Mr. Stern said. 
 Their primary goal was to make it habitable. ''We had no heat or hot water when we moved in,'' Ms. Gourley said.
 Mr. Stern's triumph was replacing the main rotting wood support beam with a steel one. When he pulled up the pockmarked parlor floor, he discovered that the subflooring was a beautiful tongue-and-groove pine. With help from his son, he pulled that up, too, laid a new plywood subfloor, and made the old subfloor the new floor. When he was done with the major renovation work, they had three floors for themselves and a garden apartment to rent out.
 ''It's hard to do this work when you are living through it,'' Mr. Stern said. ''But you are motivated to work quickly by the wrath of your family.''
 They lived until recently with a banister made of two-by-fours, which Ms. Gourley found depressing. She thought it looked ''toothless.''
 Ms. Gourley admits that the do-it-yourself lifestyle is stressful and expensive. She estimates that they have spent $300,000 on improvements. ''We try to do everything ourselves,'' she said, ''but sometimes we have to call in professionals to fix our mistakes. The house is always pushing and pulling me. I feel like it's a man whom I am constantly arguing with.'' 
 But Brooklyn is working out, even if friends told her she should not leave Manhattan. ''People would shake their heads and say, 'Are you sure you want to move to Fort Greene?' '' she said. ''But we are incredibly glad we did. The house really rescued us.''
 The quiet tree-lined streets remind her of her childhood in North Carolina. ''The house is really my homage to the South,'' said Ms. Gourley, who enjoys baking sweets like chocolate chess pie and apricot bread pudding, which are featured in her cookbook ''Sugar Pie and Jelly Roll'' (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 2000). 
 The living room is furnished eclectically with pieces found at sample sales and a huge glass-doored bookcase that required six men to carry it into the house. 
 The kitchen was renovated inexpensively. ''My cabinets came from a friend's house when she redid her kitchen,'' she said, ''and I drove to Saratoga Springs in a truck to buy the tiles for the backsplash from the man who makes them. My Viking stove is very old. I got it for $1,000 from a neighbor who never cooks.'' 
 Ms. Gourley has just written and illustrated another paean to Southern food, this one with a Brooklyn twist. Her new children's book, ''Bring Me Some Apples and I'll Make You a Pie'' (Houghton Mifflin, 2008), is based on the childhood of Edna Lewis, an icon of Southern cooking who was the chef at the nearby Gage & Tollner's restaurant in the early 1990s. 
 ''The more I learned about her,'' Ms. Gourley said, ''the more I realized that her childhood on the farm was almost exactly like my mother's.''
 The book, which celebrates eating seasonally, financed another improvement: the mahogany-and-glass front doors. ''I can safely say that my advance paid for them,'' she said proudly.
 With two cats, a dog and a rabbit roaming the brownstone, Ms. Gourley often feels as if she was back on her grandmother's farm. ''When we lived in TriBeCa, it was so noisy with 18-wheelers hitting the metal plates in the streets,'' she said. ''Here, you can hear the birds.''
 She stands by the window, admiring her winter view over her garden onto the tower of the former Williamsburgh Savings Bank. ''This house has given me the space to have the life I wanted, to cook and have a garden,'' she said. ''I don't think I could have ever been as happy in an apartment.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM CRAZY TO COZY: When Robbin Gourley and her husband, Jeffrey Stern, bought their brownstone, its chief charm was its low price. Mr. Stern, who did much of the renovation, rescued the pine floors. Many furnishings, including the kitchen stove and cabinets, are secondhand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); COCAINE (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



34 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Airport Hotels That Invite Lingering

BYLINE: By DAVID KAUFMAN

 BODY:
THE Italian architect Matheo Thun is known for his modernist, retreatlike hotels set in pristine Alpine destinations, buildings where cutting-edge design complements state-of-the-art amenities. Mr. Thun's newest project, in Zurich, is no exception. Anchored around a six-story lobby and including features that range from Europe's tallest wine tower -- a 45-foot, 4,000-bottle confection complete with acrobatic waiters -- to Arne Jacobsen Egg chairs, Mr. Thun's 330-room Radisson SAS is as chic as Zurich's famed, fashion-filled Bahnhofstrasse. 
 Yet, this Radisson isn't found downtown, or along Zurich's iconic lake or even in its posh hillside suburbs. Instead, this contemporary urban property is actually six miles north of the city, where its nearest neighbor is none other than Terminal 1 at Zurich Airport. Located just steps from the departure gate -- and 10 minutes by train from Zurich's historic Old Town -- the Radisson SAS is emblematic of a new class of airport hotels now competing with conventional city-center properties for style, service and, especially, value. 
 Indeed, from Zurich's Terminal 1 to Heathrow's Terminal 3, from Chicago O'Hare to Amsterdam Schiphol and Singapore Changi, the newest airport hotels now offer the types of luxury spas, destination dining options, full-service business centers and architecture more typical of downtown five-stars. 
 At the priciest end, in London, Sofitel's six-month old, 607-room Heathrow property cost a cool $400 million to build -- and looks it -- with interior design by Khuan Chew (also responsible for Dubai's ultra-luxe Burj al Arab hotel) and bathrooms fitted with Swarovski crystal fixtures. Singapore's new Crowne Plaza carries a nearly $60 million price tag, while Chicago's new 556-room InterContinental O'Hare hotel offers a branch of McCormick & Schmick's haute seafood restaurant along with a 275-seat live music venue. 
 On the opposite extreme, far more budget-friendly properties are being opened throughout Europe and North America by the new cheap-and-chic chains Aloft, citizenM and Yotel. Averaging less than $150 a night, they typically include self-serve check-in facilities, cafeteria-style restaurants and extras such as Wi-Fi and cable television at no extra cost. 
 Whether priced at the high end or low, these new properties are helping transform the image of airport hotels. It's an image certainly ripe for a makeover. Long a bastion of underwhelming design and bare-bones service, airport hotels have traditionally been a functional -- though ideally avoided -- travel necessity. Averaging around $100 a night in the United States, according to a report issued by Smith Travel Research in October, these places have often been far more budget-friendly than user-friendly, a last resort in cases of unexpected delays, cancellations or limited expense accounts. 
 Yet over the past half-decade, airport hotels worldwide have embraced many of the same tactics -- from slick architecture to celebrity-chef restaurants -- employed by their design-driven, downtown counterparts to attract guests. True, conventional airline passengers still fill the bulk of their beds, but airport hotels are now looking well beyond their traditional client base, wooing people attending meetings or conventions, extended-stay business travelers, local residents and even airport employees. 
 Along with those crystals, for instance, London's new Sofitel has 45 meeting rooms, making it one of the biggest conference hotels in Britain. 
 ''This is the second-largest office market in the Midwest after downtown Chicago,'' said Janis Cannon, vice president for brand management at InterContinental Hotels & Resorts. At Chicago's O'Hare Airport, the new InterContinental includes an on-site art gallery with in-house curator, and a business lounge where guests can check into their flights online. ''We designed our property to feel like a real destination and not just a hotel,'' she said. 
 A similar hotel-as-destination sensibility is also found at the new Sofitel Heathrow, which includes a brasserie by the Michelin-starred chef Albert Roux and a spa with five treatment rooms. And Singapore's Crowne Plaza pampers guests with personalized iPods and a big outdoor pool.
 In Amsterdam, the six-month-old, 230-room citizenM Hotel at Schiphol Airport is emblematic of the cheap-and-chic airport hotels opening worldwide. ''We're providing king-sized beds, good showers and free high-speed Internet,'' said Michael Levie, citizenM's chief executive, whose hotel begins at 69 euros a night (about $90 at $1.32 to the euro), includes an art-book-filled library and is directly linked to the airport's arrivals and departures terminal. Also at Schiphol is the three-month-old Yotel, where rates begin at 70 euros a night for one of the 57 compact, podlike rooms, which start at barely 20 square feet. Yotel also operates hotels at Heathrow and Gatwick airports serving London.
 ACROSS the Atlantic, Aloft Hotels, which opened seven airport properties last year and plans three more in 2009, offers free Wi-Fi and local calls and business and fitness centers at similar room rates. ''All of the services our core customer desires without having to watch every dime and dollar,'' said Brian McGinnis, senior vice president of the Aloft brand for Starwood Hotels. 
 For guests who are concerned with cost, however, Aloft is responding to the current economic challenges nimbly and in real time. At nearly all Aloft properties, for instance, the chain has introduced lower-cost dishes -- pulled pork burritos, pesto pizzas, Asian sesame noodles, for example -- priced at $4 to $12 as guests begin to shy away from pricey offsite restaurants. Room rates are also being adjusted slightly where needed, such as at Aloft's Chicago O'Hare property, which is suffering as a result of decreased air capacity by hub carriers United and American.
 Despite the industry's credit crunch, travel analysts remain confident that the airport hotel sector will continue to enjoy strong growth. According to Jan Freitag, vice president of Smith Travel Research, some 70 airport hotels are under construction in the United States, mostly by mid- and upscale chains like Aloft, Hyatt Place and Four Points by Sheraton. ''These projects were conceived and financed in 2005 and 2006 during the boom time in both the hotel and airline industries,'' he said. Two years on, he added, ''financing for new projects is drying up somewhat, and with airlines cutting capacity and corporate travelers restricting their travels.''
 Nonetheless Mr. McGinnis insists all of Aloft's forthcoming properties will open as planned and on schedule. ''Our hotels cost only $15 to $20 million each, making them far easier to build right now than some $100 million resort,'' he says. More modest development costs also translate into lower rooms rates -- helping keep airport hotels full despite declining traveler numbers.
 Even on the luxury level, airport hotels can offer significant savings over their downtown counterparts. Rooms at the InterContinental Chicago O'Hare, for instance, averaged $209 to $229 a night in October, while at the InterContinental Chicago they averaged $409 a night for the same period. At Sofitel's new Heathrow hotel, rooms can run as low as $:99 (about $140 at $1.44 to the pound), compared with starting rates of $:250 a night at its St. James's city center hotel.
 Back at the Sofitel -- where high-rollers can check into the $:3,000-a-night Imperial Suite -- diners are digging into signature Roux dishes such as coquille St.-Jacques et boudin noir and quenelle de brochet a la Lyonnais before finishing their meal with a Left Bank-worthy cheese board or tea and pastries at the Tea 5 tea salon.
 Barely 25 minutes east by train is downtown London, while 100 yards away is Heathrow's gleaming new Terminal 5 -- both equally and easily accessible. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOP: A suite at the InterContinental O'Hare in Chicago. ABOVE In the 230-room citizenM Hotel at Schiphol Airport, serving Amsterdam.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERMAN WOUTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); CITIES (74%); TRAINS (68%)

COMPANY: MCCORMICK & SCHMICK'S SEAFOOD RESTAURANTS INC (54%); D SWAROVSKI & CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (53%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (53%); SIC3231 GLASS PRODUCTS MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); EUROPE (90%); SINGAPORE (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



35 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Banks Bypassing Mortgage Brokers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MORTGAGE brokers have long served as an important loan source. Compared with the loan officer at a local bank, brokers typically offer a wider range of mortgage products from a variety of lending institutions.
 But now some brokers are concerned that they might become marginalized, as some of the nation's largest lenders move to block them from offering their loans. 
 The banks argue that the action reflects a move toward more conservative business practices, but brokers complain that they are being made scapegoats for the credit crisis, and that consumers will suffer as a result. 
 ''Borrowers are going to have fewer choices because the industry is removing the element of competition,'' said Richard Biondi, the president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers. ''Banks are one by one knocking us out of the box.''
 Mr. Biondi, who is also an independent financial consultant and mortgage broker in Farmingdale, N.Y., said the most recent example of this trend was a change in policy last month by JPMorgan Chase. It will no longer accept loan applications processed by mortgage brokers. 
 The bank, which had in recent years been among the biggest lenders of mortgages originated by brokers, said that it would instead accept only loan applications taken in its retail locations and online.
 Mr. Biondi said he had relationships with about 15 lenders, but usually made loans on behalf of four or five. The disappearance of Chase, he said, will force him to look to smaller, community-based lenders, which sometimes charge higher interest rates. 
 A JPMorgan Chase spokesman, Thomas Kelly, disputed Mr. Biondi's claim that Chase's policy shift would ultimately hurt consumers. ''We are making decisions about the best way to make loans that will be good for borrowers in the long run,'' he said.
 Chase's business has also changed, he noted. The bank had just 600 branches five years ago, but through mergers and acquisitions and the opening of new branches it has grown to more than 5,000, so Chase can rely less on brokers to distribute its loans.
 In addition, Mr. Kelly cited an internal memo sent to employees on Jan. 13, in which executives wrote that mortgages made directly through Chase employees have lower default rates than those made through brokers. Mr. Kelly declined to elaborate further on the memo.
 Some legislators and consumer advocates have criticized brokers specializing in subprime mortgages -- loans typically offered to borrowers with less-than-stellar credit ratings. They charge that some brokers persuaded borrowers to apply for loans that were beyond their ability to repay. 
 But mortgage brokers say they have been unfairly blamed for the industry's failures in recent years. They point out that it is the lenders, not brokers, who ultimately approve a borrower's application.
 John A. Courson, the president and chief executive of the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group based in Washington, said that brokers would continue to remain an ''important part of the mortgage delivery process.''
 Mr. Courson acknowledged, however, that lenders have had concerns about the business practices of some brokers, and that the pressure on brokers could continue. 
 Lenders, he said, want to do business with financially secure mortgage brokerage firms that have more of a personal stake in the success or failure of the loans they make. Only those firms with a net worth of at least $63,000, for instance, can offer Federal Housing Administration loans. But Mr. Courson said that the Mortgage Bankers Association was pushing to raise the threshold to $150,000.
 Lenders have agreements with brokers that enable them to demand compensation for bad loans. The more capital a brokerage firm has, the more likely that it will be able to compensate the lender. 
 If implemented, such a policy could further impair an industry in which brokers have gone out of business by the tens of thousands in the last two years. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index. Chart details line graph for 30 year and 15 year fixed rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (95%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INTEREST RATES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); SUBPRIME LENDING (79%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



36 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3041 words

HEADLINE: Our Love Affair With Malls Is on the Rocks

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Minn. 

 BODY:
 DEARLY beloved.
 We are gathered here today, in the midst of economic calamity, to ask if we really should be gathered here today, in a funhouse of merchandise designed to send us deeper into debt.
 Specifically, we are gathered in the Chapel of Love, sandwiched between a LensCrafters and a Bloomingdale's and tucked into a relatively quiet corner of the vast prairie of retail and amusements that is the Mall of America. 
 It's a convenient starting point for rethinking the 50-year marriage between the American shopper and the American mall. Because we've been married to the mall for so long that some of us are now getting married in the mall -- 5,000 couples in this chapel since it opened 10 years ago.
 And one recent Sunday afternoon, Brianna and Jesse Bergmann are standing here under a white wedding arch, beside an ordained minister, having promised to cherish each other in sickness and in health. There was a homily about forgiveness, an exchange of vows and finally a kiss and some applause. 
 Before everyone heads past the Foot Locker and down the escalator to the Rainforest Cafe, the bride -- a cherubic 19-year-old -- leans against a wall in her billowy white dress and explains why she chose this spot for her big day.
 ''I love shopping,'' she says, giggling. ''Mostly clothing. I love Macy's, Aero's, American Eagle, Maurice's.''
 ''I come with her when she shops,'' says her husband, a 21-year-old who loads pallets in a food warehouse, ''so she doesn't spend too much.''
 Here, ladies and gentlemen, is the crux of the problem: We are reliably informed that whatever part of the economic crisis can't be pinned on Wall Street -- or on mortgage-related financial insanity -- can be pinned on consumers who overspent. But personal consumption amounts to some 70 percent of the American economy. So if we don't spend, we don't recover. Fiscal health isn't possible until money is again sloshing into cash registers, including those at this mall and every other retailer.
 In other words, shopping was part of the problem and now it's part of the cure. And once we're cured, economists report, we really need to learn how to save, which suggests that we will need to quit shopping again. 
 So the mall we married has become the toxic spouse we can't quit, though we really must quit, but just not any time soon. The mall, for its part, is wounded by our ambivalence and feels financially adrift.
 Like any other troubled marriage, this one needs counseling. And pronto, because even a trial separation at a moment as precarious as this could get really ugly.
 So we have come to this 4.2-million-square-foot behemoth -- the mother of all malls, a pioneer in the field of destination retailing, and a sprawling, visceral economic indicator -- for some talk therapy with shoppers, retailers and management. We let people vent, grumble and sift through their feelings. They catalog their anxieties, describe their fears and express the surprising varieties of guilt that only dysfunctional relationships can produce.
 ''I feel a need to get out there and do the mall thing, because I don't want the mall to disappear,'' says Cookie Tomlinson, who is visiting from Maryland and sits on a bench next to her son near Lego Park. 
 Mrs. Tomlinson and her husband are here Christmas shopping for their two grandchildren, who are too young to realize that their gifts are a tad late. ''It's a social experience, being with the grandkids, watching them interact,'' she says.
 Her son, Gary Tomlinson, is a computer repairman who wears a black T-shirt that reads, ''No, I will not fix your computer.''
 ''The mall is tactile in a way that online shopping isn't,'' he says. ''So the kids pick out stuff that they wouldn't pick out if we were at home shopping on the Web.''
 But could you quit the mall if you had to?
 ''Yeah, I could quit the mall,'' he says. ''But I don't want to see it die.''
 THERE are roughly 1,500 malls in the United States, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, many of them ailing, some of them being converted into office buildings, and others closing their doors for good. 
 At Web sites like deadmalls.com, the carcasses of these abandoned buildings are photographed and toe-tagged, along with tributes from former shoppers. All this as the worst retail environment in decades continues to sag in a sickly economy.
 But from those overseeing the Mall of America, you don't hear panic. ''We're bucking the trend,'' says Maureen Bausch, vice president for business development. ''We always knock wood when we say that.''
 Ms. Bausch has the effervescent, can-do cheer of a small-town mayor, which, in a way, she is. 
 Eleven thousand people work at the mall in this suburb of Minneapolis, a five-minute ride from the airport. Forty million visitors arrive here each year, which, according to the mall's promotional material, is more than visit Disney World, the Grand Canyon and Graceland combined. 
 The mall has a seven-acre theme park with 24 rides, an aquarium with hundreds of sharks, an 18-hole miniature golf course, 20,000 parking spaces and 520 retail stores.
 The mall has its own security force and a holding cell, which is run by the Bloomington police. There are 250 video cameras spread around the mall, which Darcy Kwyla, a security systems controller, monitors in a hushed room.
 ''You see everything,'' says Ms. Kwyla, as she flips from camera to camera with a control panel on her desk. ''Sex in the parking lot, a naked guy on drugs walking through the mall, thefts, fights. You name it.''
 Since the mall opened in 1992, there have been a handful of suicides -- mostly people jumping from the seventh level of the parking lot -- as well a murder and two accidental deaths on the amusement park rides. But you are far more likely to see a TV chef than a crime on the premises. 
 Last year, 95 celebrities were limoed here, mostly B- and C-listers like the professional wrestler Bret Hart and Jay McGraw, the son of Dr. Phil and author of ''Life Strategies for Dealing With Bullies.''
 ''We're more promotional now than we've ever been,'' as Ms. Bausch puts it.
 Sitting in her office in the basement, she is explaining how it's possible that total sales at the mall were up 2 percent in 2008. Even she seems a little amazed by the number, in part because a major highway nearby was shut down during some crucial days in the holiday shopping season. 
 Yes, 11 stores closed in 2008, including Hot Dog on a Stick, a clothing retailer named Big Dog, and Wilsons Leather. But 31 new stores opened, among them American Apparel, True Religion and Best Buy, which brought in New Kids on the Block, the reunited boy band, for what the store billed as an ''exclusive Best Buy opening performance and autograph signing!''
 Tourist dollars helped. There are 71 Mall of America package tours from 32 countries. And there are special events, like the ''Spirit of America'' cheerleading competition, which unleashes a couple of thousand cheerleaders in the mall on the weekend we visit.
 But the girls in sparkly mascara, on teams with names like Xtreme Storm, are outnumbered by shoppers. And few of those shoppers are in the mood to spend.
 Here, for instance, are six women from St. Cloud, Minn., waiting for a table outside Ruby Tuesday. They have come for their eighth annual weekend trip to the Mall of America. Four of them are sisters and two are women who married into the sisters' family, and happen to be sisters, too.
 ''Can you guess who the four sisters are?'' one asks. (We can, but by dumb luck.)
 They are all splitting a single suite at a hotel, which will cost each of them a mere $16 a night. As they do the math, it's clear that an unofficial competition is under way for the title of Least Extravagant Shopper.
 ''I got this for $25,'' says Shannon McDonnel, draping a leopard-pattern scarf around her neck. ''From Macy's. On sale.''
 ''That's not a sale item!'' a sister shouts.
 ''It is a sale. It was originally $40. No wait, it was originally $34. So that's a sale.''
 ''I spent $36 and got eight items,'' says Kyna Reiter. ''All of them from Garage, a store I'd never heard of, but it was a great store.''
 ''I got a dress from Ann Taylor for $5,'' says Meaghan Banes. She also has a burrito from Chipotle in her hands, which she will take into Ruby Tuesday, which means she'll spend less than everyone else on lunch. So she wins.
 Each of the six women is in a defensive spending crouch for a different reason. 
 One woman's husband hauls new cars, which means he's on the verge of being laid off. Another's husband is training to be a police officer, which means he isn't earning anything now. The couple have been trying to sell their house for a year, hoping that they can downsize to a smaller home, in the $100,000 range. But so far, no one has even asked to see the house twice, let alone made an offer.
 ''Have you buried a statuette of St. Joseph in the yard?'' Ms. McDonnel asks. (The statue is supposed to bring good luck.)
 ''A year ago,'' Ms. Reiter says. ''We buried St. Joseph a year ago.''
 The black disc that Ruby Tuesday gave them is now blinking and making noise. Their table's ready.
 ''Maybe you should bury St. Jude,'' Ms. McDonnel says, heading into the restaurant.
 St. Jude?
 ''He's the saint of lost causes.''
 IF we were actually in couples therapy with the mall, we'd have to confess to something: We have changed, not the mall. 
 The economic crisis has caused shoppers to go into an essentials-only mode. But the mall has never trafficked in essentials. You can't, for instance, fill a prescription at the Mall of America, because it doesn't have a pharmacy. You can, however, buy a vanilla hazelnut fragrance candle in the shape of a miniature cooking skillet. Or a $13 baseball hat that looks as though it's made of cheddar cheese. A store called Corda-Roy's sells a variety of bean bags that convert into beds. Magnet Max sells a battery-operated guinea pig that runs continuously on a spinning exercise wheel.
 And, as ever, the Mall of America is filled with I-dare-you combinations of fast food and entertainment. You can nibble on a carton of Long John Silver's buttered lobster bites, then ride the SpongeBob SquarePants roller coaster. You can grab an A & W Coney cheese dog and barbecue fries and then take a virtual submarine ride. You can treat yourself to Mama's Cinnamon Bread Pudding at the Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. and try the flight simulator at A.C.E.S.
 The mall is the stalwart spouse that hasn't learned any new moves in a decade. It is owned by the Ghermezian brothers, who live in Canada and run a real estate conglomerate called Triple Five. They rarely talk to the media and declined requests to be interviewed for this article.
 Recently, they upgraded the Mall of America's movie multiplex, and in 2006 they dropped the Camp Snoopy theme in the amusement park after failing to reach a deal with United Media, which owns the rights to the brand. The park is now Nickelodeon Universe.
 But the basic design and sales pitch of the mall are unchanged. The mall is still a huge rectangle, with the stores surrounding the park and the shopping areas divided into four sections -- each with its own name, decor and background music. 
 As the publicist Dan Jasper explained in an e-mail message, the West Market -- the hallway between Nordstrom and Macy's -- is supposed to feel like a European train station and gets smooth jazz. The North Garden, which connects Sears and Macy's, is lined with trees and lampposts and is supposed to feel like an outdoor park; the retail mix skews toward teenagers and the music is described as ''pop contemporary adult hottest hits.'' South Avenue collects the upscale, chic stores and pipes in ''rock adult album alternative.'' East Broadway is supposed to feel contemporary and gets ''pop adult contemporary/modern.''
 Despite the different looks, and despite navigation maps on kiosks around the building, you never quite get your bearings. Several stores have more than one location -- there are two Nestle Toll House Cookies spots, for instance, and four Caribou Coffees -- which gives you the impression that you're lapping places you haven't yet been. 
 The mall has skylights but, like a casino, has no windows and not a single clock.
 ''Why do we want you to know what time it is?'' Ms. Bausch says with a smile. ''We don't want you to leave so we don't want you to be in a hurry.''
 SPEND enough hours in the Mall of America and you wind up in a sort of fugue state in which the specifics of time and place turn fuzzy. The hope, one assumes, is that you'll spend more freely in this alternative universe of nonstop distractions.
 It seems to have worked on Consuelo and Steve Ebert, a good-looking couple in their late 30s. In their well-stuffed shopping bags are a sweatshirt, a ski coat, pajamas and a children's book about Martin Luther King Jr. for their daughter. This after having spent, by their own calculation, more than $1,600 in the mall in the weeks before Christmas.
 At a time when most people are watching from the sidelines, these two are shopping decathletes. So one wonders: What do they do for a living?
 ''I'm a 911 dispatcher,'' Mrs. Ebert says, ''and he's a fireman.''
 Both have been labeled ''essential workers'' by the state, and they feel more essential than ever.
 ''I take calls from 36 cities,'' Mrs. Ebert says, ''and for weeks, when the price of gas was at $4 a gallon I would get a dozen calls a day from gas-station managers reporting a gas drive-off'' -- when a driver speeds off without paying. ''We got so many of them that the police finally said that they wouldn't pursue anyone unless more than $70 worth of gas had been stolen.''
 Mr. Ebert, meanwhile, was kept busy with calls to homes -- all of them vacant, many of them in foreclosure -- that had been stripped of copper pipes, presumably for sale as scrap.
 ''People would smell gas coming from those houses and call the fire department,'' he says. ''For a while, we had one of those calls every day.''
 These are among the few people with job security -- the ones fielding the local distress signals of the American economy. But there are, it seems, far more people making those calls than answering them.
 ''There are days now when I make $160 and think I had a good day,'' says Mark Classen, co-owner of Just Dogs! Gourmet, a store in the mall that sells, among other items, signs that say ''My Labrador retriever is smarter than your honor roll student'' and dog treats shaped like fire hydrants.
 ''You'd be amazed at how many people are returning things now,'' Mr. Classen adds. ''I'm going to have to start enforcing my return policy because -- well, look at this.''
 He reaches under the counter and retrieves a pair of pink dog shoes called Cozy Boots, size ''xxsmall,'' which are in a custom-made plastic zip bag. 
 ''A woman just brought these back,'' he says. ''The zipper is broken. The cotton in the booties is gone. I can't sell these again. This keeps happening. Today, every time I got past $300 in sales, somebody brought something back and I was back under $300. Back and forth all day.''
 Mr. Classen isn't buying the ''up 2 percent'' line that the mall's management is bragging about. In fact, you hear a lot of skepticism about that figure from retailers here. (Except for the big ones. Representatives of the mall's four anchor stores -- Nordstrom, Macy's, Sears and Bloomingdale's -- either did not return calls or said they would not comment .) 
 The people who run the smaller operations are chattier -- like Derrick Wolf, the co-owner of a kiosk that sells hermit crabs as recession-friendly pets. 
 ''I'd say we're staying afloat,'' he says. ''We're down over last year, but not to the point where it's worrying us.''
 Or Felicia Glass-Wilcox, who owns the Chapel of Love. The place has flower sconces on the wall, a ''Rod Stewart Unplugged'' CD by the stereo and just enough white lacquered pews to seat about 65 people. 
 It also has veils, flowers, dresses, guest books -- and anything else needed for a wedding ceremony -- for sale, in a retail section, adjacent to the chapel. On the day of the Bergmann wedding, Ms. Glass-Wilcox is standing near the cash register, describing the kind of brides-to-be she is meeting these days. 
 ''We've heard it a lot lately and it just kind of kills us, but we have women come in here and tell us they want a dress for $100,'' she says. ''We have a few that are close to $200, but they're pretty informal.''
 The retail part of her business is down 25 percent. Fortunately for Ms. Glass-Wilcox, she also offers one of the area's least-expensive wedding sites, with prices that start at $249, minister included, and go up to $649, with add-ons like a photographer, custom music and Champagne.
 ''Thank God for those weddings,'' she says. ''I make more money on my weddings than I do on retail, so I'm up over all about 10 percent. We're balancing, but barely.''
 STORES like the Chapel of Love rent space from the Mall of America. (The four anchors have long-term leases and constructed their own buildings.) Everyone here, says Ms. Glass-Wilcox, has a different deal with the mall and she is prohibited from discussing the terms with other renters. Under the terms of some leases, management can tell a store to move to a different space.
 ''I've been here for five years and they've told us to move six times,'' says Sarah Ertresvaag, an assistant manager at Tiffany Collection, a lamp store that is closing in a matter of weeks. There are ''50 percent off'' signs all over. 
 ''The shortest move was 10 days,'' Ms. Ertresvaag says. ''We moved in, they said somebody else wants the spot, and we moved out.''
 This is a revelation: Even the retailers have an uncertain marriage to the mall. And the harder that times are, the trickier that relationship becomes.
 Ms. Ertresvaag says she doesn't know when the store will actually close, or even what is moving in to replace it. There have been rumors of a restaurant; someone else claims that a labyrinth for children is planned. She is just relieved to have another job lined up, one outside the mall.
 Come March, she'll manage a gas station. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beyond its 520 stores, the Mall of America has an amusement park, space for cheerleading contests, and a wedding chapel -- where Brianna and Jesse Bergmann were married.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLINE YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A new thriftiness is complicating life at some Mall of America stores, like Mark Classen's Just Dogs! Gourmet, top, and Derrick Wolf's kiosk, above left, which sells hermit crabs. Felicia Glass-Wilcox says her Chapel of Love is ''balancing, but barely.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLINE YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU6) CHART: Steeper Slide: Percentage gains in overall apparel sales have turned into declines, but the fall has been worse at malls.(Sources: International Council of Shopping Centers
 Census Bureau) Chart details line graph for malls and overall sales. (pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RETAILERS (77%); COUPLE COUNSELING (75%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



37 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Intellectual Selection

BYLINE: By DEBBY APPLEGATE. 
Debby Applegate is the author of ''The Most Famous Man in America: The Biography of Henry Ward Beecher,'' which won a Pulitzer Prize in 2007.

 BODY:
BANQUET AT DELMONICO'S
 Great Minds, the Gilded Age, and the Triumph of Evolution in America
 By Barry Werth
 362 pp. Random House. $27
 ''Trying to write intellectual history is like trying to nail jelly to a wall,'' the historian William Hesseltine once observed. Standing hammer in hand, there are three obvious ways to grasp hold of this slippery subject. The first is to focus on the thinkers or, to continue the craftsman metaphor, the producers of the ideas. The second method is to concentrate on the genetic development of the ideas themselves, or the product. The third is to focus on the consumers; that is, to trace the transmission and interpretations of these ideas among the wider population. 
 In ''Banquet at Delmonico's: Great Minds, the Gilded Age, and the Triumph of Evolution in America,'' Barry Werth seeks to show how the concept of evolution evolved in the decades after the Civil War, to become a dominant lens through which Americans viewed their rapidly changing world. A slippery subject, indeed. But Werth, the author of ''The Scarlet Professor'' and several other books, takes firm hold by keeping a tight, almost cinematic, focus on the intellectual producers -- the fossil-hunters, biologists, preachers, economists, historians, industrialists, politicians and editors -- ''who accepted the overall truth of gradual development as a principle of biological descent, but disagreed sharply among themselves on other essential questions, and on the deeper implications for society, and for God.'' 
 Werth depicts these ferociously ambitious thinkers as engaged in a Darwinian fight to the finish, each vying to lay out the most persuasive theories and win the widest reputation. This apt fusion of form and content makes for a surprisingly suspenseful and fast-paced story. Werth effortlessly brings each eccentric character to life through colorful details and well-chosen anecdotes, while taking us on a whirlwind tour of Gilded Age politics and society. ''Banquet at Delmonico's'' crackles with energy and wit. 
 The central rivalry was between two English titans, the naturalist Charles Darwin and the philosopher Herbert Spencer. Although his reputation has been eclipsed by Darwin, Spencer published his ''doctrine of development'' two years before Darwin's ''Origin of Species'' appeared in 1859. It was Spencer who coined the phrase ''survival of the fittest'' to refer to Darwin's theory of natural selection. 
 Darwin and Spencer shared two basic tenets. The first was the universality of conflict, or the belief that all beings are in competition for limited life-sustaining resources. The second was the principle of adaptation, that those beings who best adapt to their changing environment will be the ones most likely to dominate resources and to reproduce. For a generation raised to believe in a static and harmonic world, bound by the laws of nature and predetermined by God's plans, these ideas were revolutionary. 
 Beyond this, however, the two men generally parted company. Darwin was a scientist and a ruthlessly inductive thinker who formulated his hypotheses over 25 years of painstaking observation of plants, animals and fossils. Spencer, by contrast, was a deductive polymath who prided himself on his ability to spin all-encompassing theories out of limited information. Spencer believed that his ''universal law of evolution'' could apply to everything in the cosmos, including human psychology, language, morality, race, government and society. 
 Perhaps their biggest difference, however, was the issue of teleology, or whether evolutionary development implied a design or purpose. ''The forces behind Darwinian evolution were random, mindless, blind, but for Spencer survival of the fittest also meant survival of the best, suggesting a cosmic value system,'' Werth writes. ''Progress wasn't accidental; it was imperative, even programmed.'' As Andrew Carnegie, the steel baron, philanthropist and Spencer acolyte, liked to say, ''All is well since all grows better.'' Or in the sharper tones of the Yale political economist William Graham Sumner, ''A drunkard in the gutter is just where he ought to be.'' 
 It was Spencer's wide-ranging attempts to apply the concept of organic evolution to society, rather than Darwin's more cautious and narrow theories of biological change, that caught fire in the competitive, by-your-own bootstraps atmosphere of post-Civil War America. As Edward Livingston Youmans, the founder of The Popular Science Monthly and Spencer's main American promoter, often observed, much of what was called Darwinism in the United States should actually be called Spencerism. This was especially true of what has become known, often pejoratively, as ''social Darwinism,'' or ''the anti-philanthropic, anti-meddling side'' of Spencer's legacy, in Youmans's words. Even so, by 1880 Spencer's American followers had declared victory over Darwin in the race for popular influence. 
 I am hesitant to complain of any book that could make the abstruse debates of a dozen dyspeptic eggheads read like an intellectual thriller. Werth is a gifted writer, and his subject is especially important in our current economic crisis, as Americans are reassessing their belief that social progress will grow naturally out of unfettered free-market competition. 
 Yet complain I will. By keeping such tight hold on one portion of intellectual history -- the thinkers thinking -- Werth lets the other two aspects slip from his grasp: why and how average people absorbed these ideas into their lives and the worth of the ideas themselves. As a narrator, Werth never pauses the action long enough to step back, sum up and compare the barrage of complex and contradictory ideas. We never get the benefit of the historian's broader perspective. This absence is especially odd because Werth is terrific at explaining on the fly. He nimbly leads us through many historical thickets, including the causes of the economic depression of the 1870s, the switchbacks of federal Indian policy, three thorny presidential elections and one presidential assassination. 
 The lack of extended asides matters less when discussing the relatively straightforward conflict between Darwinism and religion. The Deistic Darwinians state their position thus: ''We know of old that God was so wise that he could make all things; but behold he is so much wiser than even that, that he can make all things make themselves.'' To which the atheists and the Biblical literalists reply: ''Well, I just don't see it.'' Another stalemate in the eternal battle between belief and unbelief. 
 But this lack of wider perspective matters a great deal as we get to the social and political implications of Spencerism. It quickly becomes clear that the concept of ''the survival of the fittest'' gives license to a multitude of contradictory views and schemes. It could be (and was) used to argue for both the extermination and the assimilation of the Native American population; it was the rhetorical weapon of both the imperialist and the pacifist, the government regulator and the laissez-faire businessman, the eugenicist and the caregiver. 
 As Worth's book reaches its climax, this lack of perspective weakens the suspense he works so hard to create. Without occasional authorial guidance, it is difficult to decide which ideas -- and thus which thinkers -- to root for. We don't feel the intellectual noose tightening, because we never tally up which logic falls apart, which theories are discredited by closer observation and which are disastrous in actual application. Werth closes with a stirring account of a famous banquet in New York in late November 1882. Scores of America's leading men jammed into Delmonico's Restaurant to officially declare Herbert Spencer the greatest thinker of the 19th century. Darwin had been dead only six months, but in the panegyric he prepared for the evening Edward Youmans placed the flag of Spencer's victory squarely on Darwin's grave. Charles Darwin, Youmans proclaimed, will remain ''the most distinguished naturalist of the age, but Mr. Spencer will abide the honor of complete originality in developing this greatest conception of modern times, if not, indeed, of all time.'' Yet Werth never even gestures to the historical irony that it is Darwin whose reputation lives on, while Spencer has been almost entirely forgotten. After all, it was Spencer himself who insisted that survival is prima facie proof of superiority.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENRIK DRESCHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); WRITERS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Banquet at Delmonico's (Book)>; Banquet at Delmonico's (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



38 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The Possibility of Failure

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Six Blunders En Route to a Crisis'' (Economic View, Jan. 25): 
 In the column, Alan S. Blinder said that understanding six ''avoidable human errors'' could help us repair the financial system without ''ending capitalism as we know it.'' 
 But consider just one of the errors he enumerates: letting Lehman Brothers fail. In capitalism as I know it -- and I teach behavioral economics -- the possibility of failure is absolutely essential if we want managers to behave prudently. So the idea that policy makers should make it clear that large financial institutions will never be allowed to fail represents exactly what the column contends is unnecessary: a radical overhaul of American-style capitalism. 
 The question is whether such a radical step protecting the interests of financial institution managers and investors will be balanced by an equally radical overhaul of financial regulations in order to protect the interests of taxpayers. Eric Schoenberg
 Manhattan, Jan. 25
 The writer is an adjunct associate professor at Columbia Business School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); WRITERS (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



39 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1999 words

HEADLINE: Paradise Lost?

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

DATELINE: Fisher Island, Fla. 

 BODY:
 ON Jan. 12, Richard Goodwin, who made a fortune building condominiums, publicly lamented his own real estate woes. In a letter to The Fisher Island Voice, an online forum for residents of this tiny, gilded island less than a mile off Miami, he wrote, ''I have $1.2 million invested'' in property here, and ''I am suffering under a 40 percent meltdown of my net worth.''
 Just a year ago, his revelations would have seemed unthinkable on Fisher Island, one of the country's wealthiest communities, whose residents relish the privacy of their mini-paradise. 
 Chock full of Mediterranean-style condominiums facing the sea, the Miami skyline or a golf course, the isle features yachts moored in private marinas, flamingos that stroll on the sixth hole, and peacocks that occasionally preen atop a parked Rolls-Royce. Oprah Winfrey, Mel Brooks and the financier Martin Zweig are just a few boldface names who have called Fisher Island home. 
 But even here, a haven for wealthy families since the late 1980s, the economic storms are bearing down. About a quarter of the island's 695 condos are up for sale, roughly double the number on the market in recent years, and few are finding buyers. Sellers are cutting prices, brokers say, and one unit is in foreclosure, a surprise to some residents of a place where home prices range from $335,000 to $30 million.
 ''Nobody has unlimited net worth,'' says Ted Pincus, a retired public relations executive who owns a five-bedroom home here. ''Fisher Island has been hit like everybody else.'' 
 Wealth is no immunization against this downturn. Across the country, the sinking economy is affecting even the most luxurious communities and causing anxiety among residents. On Nantucket, the value of homes sold last year was $445 million, down almost 50 percent from 2005.
 In Southhampton village on Long Island, the real estate market dropped by a third last year, to $346 million. And the Yellowstone Club, a retreat for the superrich in Big Sky, Mont., filed for bankruptcy last year. 
 ''The wealthiest people are cutting back, too,'' says James D. Hardesty, of Hardesty Capital Management. ''They are scared. This has been a very tough market for a lot of people, and of course they have lost money.''
 A real estate broker on Fisher Island, Denise LeVine, calculates that 30 homes were sold last year, compared with 100 in 2005. She said one condominium that sold recently for $3.4 million had been bought just two years ago for $4.2 million. (The Realtor Association of Greater Miami and the Beaches does not have definitive data because Fisher Island is not an incorporated city.)
 One British family has put two oceanfront condos on the market for $2.99 million each, said Elena Bluntzer, the broker who is listing them. She promoted one of the units in a flier as a possible short sale, which means the selling price could end up less than the mortgage.
 ''Some of the homes have been on the market for a year,'' Ms. Bluntzer says. 
 In the meantime, Fisher Island Holdings, which owns the island and is the sole builder, has chosen not to start work on a planned condominium building. The company is controlled by Joseph Kay, an entrepreneur from Georgia in the former Soviet Union. 
 Mr. Kay declined to comment for this article.
 Until last year, some residents of the island thought it had special features that would help shield it from economic hurricanes. It's only 20 minutes from Miami International Airport, and it attracts a wide range of buyers. About 70 percent of residents come from outside the United States. Moreover, its appeal extends beyond retirees, or families looking for a second home; many residents live on the island year-round. 
 That diversity was in full view at the beach club one morning, where guests were speaking English, Spanish and Russian. The crowd ranged from sedate grandparents surrounded by a clutch of family members to fit young men in $200 Vilebrequin swimsuits. 
 When the economy was soaring, few worried about the high cost of living here. But the downturn has created tension, and many residents are trying to rein in spending. 
 That's tough to do when you live in a place where the board of the country club recently approved a plan to spend $60 million in upgrades. That has caused some tenants, like Mr. Goodwin, whose annual expenses run to $80,000 for a 720-square-foot home, to put his property up for sale. 
 ''It was a grandiose program that went directly into the eye of the storm,'' he says. ''I used to be rich and by American standards, I still am. But now it is a time for people like me to hunker down.'' 
 CERTAINLY, this 216-acre island is luxurious. It has 14 pools, 16 tennis courts and a nine-hole golf course, all set against a backdrop of lush gardens that are tended by 49 employees. Residents tool around in golf carts or cars. The island, which also has seven restaurants, a high-end spa, its own school, a playground and two marinas, can be reached only by a fleet of island-owned ferries. 
 Counting taxes, insurance, condo fees, club dues and expenses for island upkeep, the annual carrying costs of a condo on Fisher Island can range from $60,000 to nearly $300,000. 
 To Joe Zammit-Lucia, who recently created The Fisher Island Voice, such fees did not bother people during the halcyon days of a booming economy. ''There was an underlying testosterone-laden arrogance,'' says Mr. Zammit-Lucia, a native of England who founded a medical consulting business with his wife, which they later sold. They live on the island for much of the year. 
 ''The view was: this is a first-class community and we can afford'' all the luxurious amenities, Mr. Zammit--Lucia said over breakfast at the beach club. ''It is like the way investment bankers act: we can afford the $10,000 bottle of wine at our closing dinner, so why not?'' 
 OVER the years there have been battles between residents and some previous owners of the island. And in 2005, some residents became upset when Fisher Island Holdings began organizing galas, like one for Spanish Vogue, that drew hundreds of outsiders who clogged the island. Many of the events were held around the opulent stone and marble mansion originally built by William K. Vanderbilt, who spent time there in the early part of the 20th century.
 ''They wanted to turn the island into the Monte Carlo of Florida,'' says one resident, who declined to be identified because he did not want to discuss island issues publicly.
 Eager to grab back their privacy, residents overwhelmingly voted in 2006 to take over ownership of the club from Fisher Island Holdings. Until that time, annual club dues were subsidized by the company, and ran about $8,000. But over the next two years, without the subsidy, they jumped to $20,000, on top of a one-time $250,000 membership fee. 
 Then the economy turned sour. 
 Residents and management officials are quick to point out that the island is on solid financial footing. Mark James, chief executive of the Fisher Island Community Association, which maintains the island, said in a statement that the island ''is in a far better financial position than many communities.'' 
 Mr. James added that the ''budget is balanced, we ended 2008 with a small surplus, and none of the associations on the island is in financial peril.'' 
 Still, some of the island's premier properties are for sale. Bruce McMahan, a hedge fund executive, has put his 7,300-square-foot condominium, which he used exclusively to entertain business associates, on the market, along with all its art, for $30 million. 
 Its walls are covered with copies of paintings from the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. The paintings were done by a team brought over from Russia by Mr. McMahan, who heads the Argent Funds Group. There is also a collection of Faberge eggs and boxes and original correspondence from the Romanov family, which ruled imperial Russia, all housed in what is called the ''Romanov bedroom.'' Two Rodin sculptures adorn a terrace that fronts the ocean and is guarded by a German shepherd. 
 Mr. McMahan did not return phone calls seeking comment.
 A number of island residents say many expenses have gone up unnecessarily, prompted by other owners who seem immune to worries about spending. 
 Barney Rosenzweig, who made his fortune as the producer of ''Cagney & Lacey'' and retired to Fisher Island in 1995, calls the tension a ''battle between the haves and the have-mores.''
 Part of the bulging expense is attributable to the rising insurance costs in Florida, something that is beyond Fisher Island's control.
 Mr. Pincus owns a 5,900-square-foot home and pays more than $200,000 annually in taxes and fees. He says his property taxes have nearly doubled, to $115,000 from $60,000 five years ago. Other fees include $22,000 toward upkeep (paid to the Fisher Island Community Association), $35,000 for his condominium unit and $21,000 in dues for the country club. 
 It's all but impossible to live on the island and not belong to the country club, which offers access to golf, tennis, a spa and six of the seven restaurants. That helps explain why friction intensified with the decision in early 2008 to charge a $60 million assessment to redo the club, part of which was $16 million for a makeover of the spa, at a time when other costs were rising. Even though Fisher Island's developer agreed to contribute $25 million toward modernizing the club, that still meant the balance would have to be paid by the members -- a bill of about $54,000 a member, payable over 10 years. 
 Steve Jones, who quit the construction business in 1987 and bought his home in the early 1990s, has put it on the market. He's angry that people who want to sell their memberships back to the country club may have to wait for years because of complicated rules. And he says it is unfair that each resident pays the same community association fee, regardless of the size of the home. 
 The costs have ''just zapped the older residents who are retired,'' Mr. Jones said. ''The poor are subsidizing the rich.'' 
 Michael Ashkin, a board member who defends the need for improvements, argues that the costs have gone up only because they were artificially depressed for years because of the developer's subsidies. He says the fees are similar to those of other clubs in South Florida. 
 Tony Fano, president of the country club's board, called the increases inevitable. ''I have respect and empathy for people,'' he said. But ''if people were in our shoes faced with that decision, they would have made the same one.'' 
 In a sign of the divide, three new candidates running for the country club board are proposing cost controls. Some changes would be minor, like turning off the night lights on the tennis courts and merging accounting staffs at various operations. The most significant proposal would cut spending on the spa. But they're hardly enough to placate some protesters. ''It will not be enough,'' said Alan Trustman, a resident who wrote screenplays decades ago for the original version of ''The Thomas Crown Affair'' and ''Bullitt.'' ''They don't know how to manage costs.''
 In the meantime, Larry Brown, the chief executive of Fisher Island's country club unit, is considering cost-cutting measures in the club's daily operations. He has already come up with a less expensive dinner menu at one of the restaurants, where entrees now cost $10 to $18. Mr. Brown is also weighing a plan to cut the cost of the spa's massages and facials by 10 to 15 percent. (For members, an 80-minute massage is now $146.56, with tip. A 50-minute facial is $106.20.)
 TED PINCUS, for his part, believes that if the cost-cutting drive goes too far, it would destroy the island's quality of life. 
 ''This is the last bastion of tranquillity in a world overrun by tourists or populated with prosaic retirement villages,'' he said. ''Some will pay the premium just as some people will cough up whatever it takes to buy a Rolls-Royce.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About a quarter of the 695 condos on Fisher Island, Fla., one of the country's wealthiest havens, are on the market. Sales are slow.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The 216 acres of Fisher Island contain seven restaurants, a school, a playground, two marinas and a nine-hole golf course.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); MARINAS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PRICE CUTTING (70%); GOLF (69%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



40 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Even Waterfront Sales Are Slow

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
THE recession's impact on the housing market has shattered many an assumption about real estate. Here's one for Connecticut's trash bin: Waterfront real estate will always sell, because they're not making any more of it.
 On the contrary. Up and down the Connecticut coastline, sales of property along quiet coves and private beaches in both suburban and vacation communities are suffering from the same market doldrums afflicting those stuck in the interior. Often, residences with the most breathtaking views and palatial grounds are the ones sitting the longest. 
 ''The higher the price, the slower it is,'' said Karen Stephens, the owner of Page Taft Real Estate, which covers midcoast communities from Branford north to Old Lyme.
 Many of the area's priciest beach communities, like Sachem's Head in Guilford, rely on second-home buyers, who have been hurt by the problems on Wall Street, she said. 
 Right now, according to Ms. Stephens, the 50-odd waterfront properties listed for more than $1 million on that stretch of coastline add up to a two-year supply.
 Brokers at many other points along the shore echoed her sentiments, with a few notable exceptions -- among them Greenwich and Groton. 
 Waterfront property is still in demand on the peninsula of Groton Long Point, a resortlike community not far from the Rhode Island state line that has attracted generations of summering families to its shores. While there were only eight sales on the point last year (versus 15 the year before), Liz Viering, the president of Stonington Real Estate, said that the two waterfront properties she listed there went into contract so quickly she wished she had had several more. 
 ''Each had a lot of interest, multiple offers, and I could have sold them 10 times over,'' Ms. Viering said. 
 One, an older house that needed work, commanded the full asking price of $1.3 million from the first buyer who looked at the property in August, she said. The closing wasn't until this month, and she said she received calls into December from would-be buyers expressing hope that the deal had fallen through. 
 The other property, a five-year-old house, sold to a Greenwich couple for $1.8 million. 
 Ms. Viering suggested that Groton Long Point (where her husband's family owns a home) benefits from the many adults living in the Hartford, New York and Boston areas who summered there as children. Many want to buy into the community, she said, and jump when the right property becomes available.
 But in Fairfield County, where shoreline properties are more typically year-round residences, buyers are scarce, particularly for high-end houses. Along the beaches of Fairfield, including Southport, several properties priced above $5 million have recently been pulled off the market for lack of interest, said Mark Markelz, an agent with William Raveis Real Estate.
 The opposite is true of houses priced under $1 million within the broader beach neighborhoods, he noted. Buyers who can't afford to be right on the water are still gravitating toward it -- 36 percent of all contracts pending in Fairfield right now are in beach neighborhoods south of the Post Road, Mr. Markelz said.
 Farther down the coast, on Wilson Point in Norwalk, sales are so slow that Sharon Briggs Forelli, an agent who specializes in the area, called 2008 the worst of her 41 years in real estate.
 The economic downturn has made buyers more sensitive to property taxes -- a negative for Wilson Point because taxes are higher in Norwalk than in surrounding suburbs, she said. 
 The city of Stamford logged only three direct waterfront sales in 2008, down from 13 the year before, according to Lorraine Leonard of Keller Williams Realty. All three sales were in the peninsula enclave of Shippan. 
 Stamford has suffered a trickle-down effect from slower sales in ultrawealthy Greenwich, Ms. Leonard said, since a sizable number of would-be purchasers on the city's waterfront are Greenwich residents who want to trade down from bigger houses.
 Greenwich has unquestionably taken a wallop from the cutbacks on Wall Street. According to year-end data collected by Prudential Connecticut Realty, the volume of sales of single-family houses in Greenwich last year was down 37 percent from 2007. The only shoreline town in Fairfield County with a sharper drop-off was Darien, at 45 percent. 
 Yet Greenwich also happens to be another place where waterfront property is still moving -- if it's fairly priced, according to Russell Pruner, a partner at Shore and Country Properties.
 One reason, he suggested, is that a beach berth in this status-conscious town is still considered the ''triple-A bond'' of Greenwich real estate.
 Another is that there aren't many of these properties available: as of a week ago, only 2.5 percent of the 560 homes on the market in Greenwich offered direct waterfront property. ''If waterfront comes on, unless it's grossly overpriced, it will sell fairly quickly,'' Mr. Pruner said.
 In the Riverside section of town, for example, a 4,000-square-foot house on Long Island Sound closed this month for $10 million after being on the market for just two months, a third of the current average. The home, which has a separate studio and two acres of land, had been listed for $12.9 million, but Mr. Pruner said $10 million was a more realistic value. 
 On the other hand, a new six-bedroom home with eight baths with tidal waterfront in the Belle Haven section of Greenwich, has not sold after 17 months on the market. In Mr. Pruner's estimation, the current price of $16.7 million, though down from the original $17.9 million, is still ''astronomical'' given that the back of the 2.3-acre property is roughly 100 yards from Interstate 95.
 ''That,'' he predicted, ''is going to be sitting for a while.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COLD FEET?: Connecticut's coastal vistas are as beautiful as ever, as Groton Long Beach shows. But beauty no longer means a sure sale -- especially for the more expensive properties.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANA SURECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BEACHES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



41 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: A Month Free? Rents Are Falling Fast

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
IN this painful economic climate of layoffs and shrinking investments, there is a sliver of positive news: it's a good time to be a renter in New York City. Prices are falling, primarily in Manhattan, and concessions like a month of free rent are widespread.
 Although it is notoriously difficult to quantify the state of the rental market, rents fell in almost every sector of the Manhattan market last year, according to the Real Estate Group, a New York brokerage. The steepest drop was in one-bedrooms, down 5.7 percent in buildings with doormen and 6.53 percent in buildings without. The only category that rose: rents for two-bedroom apartments in doorman buildings, up just a bit, by 0.61 percent. But these numbers, like most available data, represent asking rents rather than the final price. Anecdotal evidence suggests that some people are negotiating rents as much as 20 percent lower than the original prices asked by landlords. These figures also leave out incentives, like a month of free rent or a landlord's paying the broker fee, which can add up to real savings.
Fritz Frigan, executive director of sales and leasing at Halstead Property estimates that when these incentives are considered, rents are actually down some 10 percent to 15 percent since the market peak in mid-2007. 
 ''In that really strong market,'' Mr. Frigan said, ''landlords didn't have to do anything.'' In 2008, that was no longer the case. 
 In January 2008, Halstead had about 90 listings for which the owner offered to pay the broker's fee. By the summer, that number had pushed upward, hitting about 450 a month. 
 ''Then, in September or October, the whole thing broke loose,'' Mr. Frigan said. 
 In a one-month period, from Dec. 23, 2008, to Jan. 23, 2009, some 1,700 of Halstead's 9,000 total rental listings included owner payment of the broker's fee.
 Jimmi Circosta, a vice president and associate broker at Citi Habitats, also saw a big slowdown in the autumn, which he pegs to the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September. ''Once that news hit the marketplace,'' he said, ''it just got really quiet.'' 
 Tom Botts and his wife, Libbie Rice, found all kinds of deals from landlords when they went apartment hunting this winter, and they were able to negotiate a reduction in the rent on the Upper West Side three-bedroom that they finally chose. They also encountered a symptom of the market that was simply unheard of in recent years: their previous landlord offered to lower their rent if they renewed their lease. 
 ''We had a truly un-New York experience with our old landlord begging us to stay,'' Mr. Botts, 39, said in an e-mail message. The owner offered a rent reduction of more than 10 percent, but the couple had already found an apartment they preferred and were committed to moving. 
 It's impossible to say how often owners are lowering rents to encourage tenants to stay put, but anecdotes are starting to surface. ''It's not a common occurrence,'' said Mr. Circosta of Citi Habitats, ''but it is happening.''
 Mr. Botts, a partner at Hudson Crossing, a travel industry advisory company, and Ms. Rice, 44, who does similar work as an independent consultant, hope one day to buy an apartment for themselves and their children, Tommy, 4, and Camille, 2. But they have decided to hold off for now. ''The economy feels too scary,'' Ms. Rice said.
 They have a lot of company on the sidelines of the sale market. 
 ''It certainly makes renting more attractive when the rental market softens,'' said Gary H. Schatsky, a financial adviser in New York. ''If people suspect -- as most people do -- that the New York City sales market will get much softer, and they're able to rent in the meantime, then being able to negotiate a rental rate puts you in a better position.'' 
 Teresa Hsiao found a kinder-than-expected rental market when she moved to Manhattan from Los Angeles last month. 
 ''I was expecting to live in a box,'' she said. She looked at more than 10 apartments and found lots of concessions on nice spaces that added up to substantial price cuts. ''Everyone was paying the broker fee,'' she said. ''They were very flexible on their lease terms. One broker told me: 'We'll get it done for you. Just name your price and we'll do it.' ''
 Ms. Hsiao, 23, and her roommate, David Liu, 24, settled on a two-bedroom two-bathroom apartment in Midtown on the West Side. It was listed for $4,200. They offered $3,650 a month and were accepted. After one month free and a $2,000 signing bonus, the total came to $3,215 monthly, and they did not have to pay the broker's fee. 
 ''This apartment was definitely a great find and a bargain compared to 1.5 years ago,'' Mr. Liu wrote in an e-mail message. ''It's definitely a renters' market now.''
 The creation of jobs is one of the primary ingredients in a strong rental market, and people like Ms. Hsiao and Mr. Liu, who both moved to New York for work, used to be its lifeblood. Now their numbers are dwindling as the city has begun to shed jobs. 
 According to the New York State Department of Labor, New York City lost 49,100 private-sector jobs from December 2007 to December 2008, which helped send the unemployment rate from 5.1 percent to 7.4 percent.
 ''People assume when sale slows down, rental will pick up, but that depends on what the source of this is,'' said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Terra Holdings, which owns Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens. ''When you're losing jobs, the rental market is also going to suffer.'' 
 While prices have started to slide in Manhattan, they are steadier in Brooklyn. Increasingly, however, there are deals to be found, especially in neighborhoods like Williamsburg that have seen a lot of new construction.
 Last July, James McGuinness, 23, and his partner, Louis Kerscher, 25, moved into an apartment in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, for which the owner paid the broker's fee. Adrian Cardona, a broker with the company they used, Rapid Realty, says he has seen more owner payments since the summer. ''Absolutely,'' he said. ''They have no choice.'' 
 Patrick McGrath, a managing partner at Taurus, which owns a recently converted luxury prewar rental building in Brooklyn Heights called the Standish, says the Brooklyn market has softened, but not a lot. 
 ''We're not renting as fast as we would have expected,'' Mr. McGrath said. ''We've had to provide concessions -- a free month rent, we pay the broker fee. But rents are around where we expected them to be. We're in the ballpark.'' 
 Owners with more property -- and deep pockets -- generally would rather offer incentives than reduce rents because when the market comes back, they start from a stronger bargaining position. But landlords of smaller buildings tend to just lower the rent.
 Allison Gill and Hadley Hege, both 22, found that they had some bargaining power when they went apartment hunting late last year. Ms. Gill, a law student, and Ms. Hege, an actress, looked at a two-bedroom apartment in a three-unit building in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, listed for $2,000. They took it for $1,900. 
 The rental market in Queens, meanwhile, is relatively stable. 
 ''The prices are not going up,'' said Donna Reardon, Queens divisional manager for Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''They're staying the same.'' Concessions are still an exception rather than the rule in that borough. 
 It is in Manhattan, which saw steep price gains in recent years, where the discounts can be substantial now -- even on the higher end.
 Sara Nuttall, her husband and their 11-year-old twins relocated to New York at the end of last year from Dakar, Senegal, where they paid $2,500 for a five-bedroom house with a garden. They were looking for a three-bedroom apartment and started with a budget of about $6,000 a month. 
 Senad Ahmetovic, an associate broker and vice president at Halstead, showed them about 35 apartments. 
 ''In my 10 years' experience, I haven't seen so many three-bedroom apartments on the market,'' Mr. Ahmetovic said. ''It just seemed endless. In the past, they weren't being offered with incentives, because there were so few available at any given point.''
 That, it seems, is no longer the case. 
 ''We started to discover that there were incentives there for us,'' said Ms. Nuttall, 52. ''That made a big difference. It meant we could get something that was a bit nicer, a bit more what we wanted for the same price.'' 
 They eventually settled on a three- bedroom three-and-a-half bath apartment in east Midtown. It was listed for $8,500 but they were able to negotiate the rent to $8,000 a month. They also received a free month of rent, and the owner paid the broker's fee. Their monthly payment will be $7,400. That $1,100 decline represents a 13 percent decrease from the asking rent, not including the money saved on the broker.
 Ms. Nuttall found the apartment in December, always a slow time in the rental market. But seasonal sluggishness does not explain the discounts that she encountered. 
 ''In any last quarter, the rental market always adjusts -- vacancies rise and prices dip, every year,'' said Gary Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. ''This year there was substantially less activity than you would normally see. There was an extra layer of pressure on the rental market -- and the world at large -- that forced prices down further and vacancy rates higher.'' 
 Some landlords hope that adjusting leases to expire in summer 2010 will get a better price next time around.
 Amy Baglan, 26, and her boyfriend, Johnny Munoz, 28, found a one-bedroom apartment in a prewar building on the Upper West Side at the end of last year. They negotiated a cut of $200 per month in the rent and received a free month. (They connected with the owner on Craigslist and did not use a broker.) But they signed a 16-month lease, which will expire at the end of April 2010.
 Mr. Munoz wondered why his landlady was not offering a standard one- or two-year lease. ''Do you want to make sure this is open and available during the prime season of rentals?'' he said he asked. She chuckled and said yes, Mr. Munoz said. 
 Mr. Munoz's landlady may get a boost from the warm weather, but no one knows where the market will be in 2010.
 ''My assumption would be over the next year that you're going to see effective rents drop because of the increase in concessions,'' said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist at Property and Portfolio Research, an independent research and advisory firm. ''We're forecasting that asking rents are also going to drop,'' he added. ''We'll see if that ends up being reflected in the numbers.''
 Marc Lewis, the president of Century 21 New York, has seen several recessions in his many years in the business, most recently after Sept. 11, 2001. ''But in the past,'' he said, ''it always felt like it would be a few months and then it would be over. This one, we don't have an answer yet.''
 Many people -- including President Barack Obama -- are suggesting that the economy is likely to get worse before it gets better. And the rental market is unlikely to strengthen until the economy, and the job market in particular, turns around. 
 According to the Independent Budget Office of New York City, the outlook is bleak. The agency expects the city to lose 243,000 jobs from the peak of early 2008. 
 ''Let's hope this is a short-term problem,'' said Vicki Been, the director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University. ''You know, we prefer more affordable housing, until there's a downturn. And then we panic.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOTIVATED: When Sara Nuttall and her family went hunting for a rental, she said, incentives ''made a big difference.'' Left, Amy Baglan and Johnny Munoz negotiated the rent, as did Libbie Rice, far left, and her husband.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE AND TOP LEFT, PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



42 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: Snowy Slopes, Within Easy Reach

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: Warwick, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 LOOKING for a mountain setting near Manhattan to display ski equipment and apparel, Macy's department store opened the Mount Peter Ski Area here in 1936. Babe Ruth came to ski, as did other celebrities. 
 Seventy-three years later, this family-owned ski area just over the border from New Jersey welcomes about 50,000 visitors a year. 
 ''Mount Peter has been here a long time and struggled financially many years, but it never closed,'' said Gail Sampson, who along with her husband, Don, has owned the ski area for 38 years. ''Now we have grandparents who learned to ski here bringing grandkids back to teach them to ski.''
 In Connecticut, the Mohawk Mountain Ski Area in West Cornwall has been run by the same family for decades. There, the ski area's founder, Walt Schoenknecht, developed one of the country's earliest snow-making systems, an invention that helped save the ski industry in the eastern United States. 
 ''It was funny growing up with a father who everyone thought was nuts for trying to make snow,'' said Carol Lugar, Mohawk's current owner, as she stood in front of a photograph of her father, Mr. Schoenknecht, holding what resembles an oversize garden hose. A mist sprays from the hose, and snow is all around.
 ''When he died in 1987 and snow making was on every ski area in the country, people thought he was a little less nuts,'' she said.
 There are nearly a dozen ski areas in the New York metropolitan region, and given their proximity to the country's largest ski and snowboarding market, it is not surprising that they have played a major role in the history of American snow sports. 
 In Sussex County, Mountain Creek is the biggest ski area in the metropolitan region and a snowboarders' haven. It is used by two to three times the number of skiers and snowboarders as other nearby smaller mountains.
 But it is the small, mostly family-run ski areas in the region, with their rich histories, that remain the soul, spirit and financial future of the sport.
 They are not only feeder systems for the larger ski areas of New England, New York and the Rocky Mountains, they are valuable community resources, affordable places of outdoor recreation and prized winter playgrounds where countless children are introduced to skiing and snowboarding. 
 WHEN Mount Peter's Don Sampson first came to the ski area he would eventually own, it was 1966, and the Northeast was home to hundreds of small ski areas.
 Mr. Sampson, now 72, ran Mount Peter's ski school. He met his wife, Gail, at a Mount Peter ski club meeting a few years later. They have been married 40 years -- all spent in the ski business.
 In 1971, when it looked as if the Mount Peter ski center would close, the Sampsons took out a small business loan and bought it.
 ''The first winter we were owners it snowed like a banshee,'' said Mrs. Sampson, 60. ''The place was packed, and we thought we were geniuses. Then it didn't snow for another six or seven winters, and boy, we were hurting.''
 To make ends meet, while running the ski area, Mrs. Sampson worked in a bank and Mr. Sampson had a construction business. They lived in an apartment above the base lodge and raised two daughters there. Along the way, they held some other odd jobs and waited for the snow-making and snow-grooming technology to get better -- and cheap enough that a small area (Mount Peter has 10 trails, a fraction of the number at large ski areas) could afford it.
 In the next decade, dozens of small ski areas in New York and New England were shuttered.
 But by the 1980s, the snow making and grooming had improved. Mr. Sampson said it once took him six days to cover a trail with manmade snow; nowadays he can cover six trails in 24 hours.
 Business, however, remained unpredictable for small ski areas. Various gas and energy crunches kept people away, the weather was iffy, and more skiers seemed to be gravitating toward bigger mountains. The Sampsons considered yearly offers to sell the hillside that made up Mount Peter, especially since Orange County, its location, was experiencing a housing boom.
 ''As you get older you say, 'I could be on a Florida beach right now instead of worrying about snow-making temperatures or whether the soda dispenser is still working,' '' Mrs. Sampson said.
 Still, the Sampsons never sold.
 ''It's a crazy business, but this was our home, and we just couldn't leave it,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''A lot of people came here and had fun. We stayed because of our kids, who were happy. And we thought they might want to run it someday.''
 In the 1990s, business started to rebound, and Mount Peter reinvested profits into snow making to ensure a more reliable product. 
 People who learned to ski at Mount Peter in the 1960s and '70s now had children, and when it came time for them to learn to ski or snowboard, they were drawn to the small-mountain environment they remembered.
 ''We acknowledged our place in the business and focused on it,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''And when you say you are a mom and pop place and cater to moms and dads, it all works a lot better.''
 The Sampsons' daughters, Rebecca Sampson, 35, and Amy Richardson, 33, each went off to college, but they have now returned and are actively running the ski area.
 ''We've come a long way, and I think part of it is that people are looking for a small-mountain experience in their lives,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''People at small mountains are more courteous and look out for each other. Parents come here, sit in the lodge and look up at the mountain knowing that every trail comes right back to the lodge, so it's easy to keep tabs on your kids.
 ''We're unpretentious. We have a steep expert trail, but on weekends 95 percent of the people are using our beginner terrain.''
 The Sampsons say they root for every small mountain in the region, viewing none as direct competition.
 ''We all need each other, and the ski industry needs all of us to promote the sport,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''If we were gone, prices would go up, and only the affluent could learn to ski. In the end, there would be a lot fewer people driving to Vermont, too. Skiers don't grow on trees -- they grow to love the sport at the local mountain.''
 WHEN the new owners of Mountain Creek began investing heavily in developing the ski area nearby, the Sampsons did not fear for their place in the market.
 ''Different clientele,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''We know that when teenagers get old enough to drive, they'll want to go there. That's O.K.''
 The northwestern hills of Sussex County were once mostly quarries and craggy cliffs so isolated that they were dubbed ''the Ice Box of New Jersey.'' In the 1960s, entrepreneurs saw promise in the barren landscape and built not one, but two, successful ski areas. By the 1970s, according to Skiing Magazine, more people were learning to ski in New Jersey than in any other state in the nation. 
 The two ski areas have since evolved into Mountain Creek, a 45-trail complex that has embraced snowboarding and new school skiers, who use twin-tip skis to play in the area's terrain parks. Mountain Creek produced Danny Kass, a silver medalist in snowboarding at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and the 2006 Games in Turin, Italy.
 ''I grew up with a local mountain in my backyard,'' the medalist said at the Games in Utah when asked about his New Jersey roots. ''When I was a kid, it was like Aspen to me.''
 Eleven years ago, Intrawest, a ski industry corporate giant, bought what was then the Vernon Valley/Great Gorge ski area. Intrawest pumped many millions of dollars into the facilities and lifts for the newly named Mountain Creek.
 Mountain Creek further separated itself from other ski areas in the region last year by dedicating almost half its trails to a terrain park with features for snowboarders and new school skiers. The lodge near these slopes got a cultural makeover, too, with a younger, adventure-sports theme. Mountain Creek officials said that the changes had been a success, and that they had received positive reactions in guest satisfaction surveys. 
 Yet many skiers find themselves returning again and again to the family-owned resorts. 
 TO stand on the sun deck beside the trails of Mohawk Mountain in Litchfield County at lunchtime on a crisp winter afternoon, surrounded by a sea of smiling young faces, is to understand the worth of a small, accessible ski area.
 ''I miss seeing snowmen on lawns when I'm driving in the winter these days,'' Ms. Lugar said, as she pondered the appeal of her ski area. ''The new, increased structure of kids' lives prevents some things. But a small ski area offers kids freedom. They can take a run on their own, and they can come play in the snow. There's a freedom for the parents, too. So I'm glad we can do that for them.''
 Ms. Lugar's life story is typical of those in ski-area management, which is rarely a career choice but more a mix of lifestyle, avocation and advocacy. Born the year Mohawk Mountain opened 61 years ago, Ms. Lugar was raised in a tiny apartment affixed to the Mohawk lodge. ''The ski trails were just a big backyard to me,'' she said.
 Her father and mother, Peg, were skiers from the New Haven area, with Mr. Schoenknecht a particularly ardent skiing advocate who believed everyone should try the sport. Mohawk would be the place where he could breed thousands of converts to skiing.
 ''But there were snowless winters, and it bothered him to no end that he couldn't control the weather,'' Ms. Lugar said, seated in her Mohawk office late last month. ''So first he experimented with crushed ice. He imported tons of ice from local ponds and refrigeration plants and spread it on the hill with a bulldozer.''
 The ice melted quickly. It was time to think of something else. For much of the 20th century, Connecticut had dozens of tobacco farms, and Mr. Schoenknecht observed how they would spray the leaves with a mist from compressed air and water guns. He approached some engineers with the idea of a similar machine that would produce snow.
 Some continue to argue over who installed the first system that blanketed the ground with artificial snow, but, according to Jeff Leich, the executive director of the New England Ski Museum in Franconia, N.H., Mr. Schoenknecht is widely credited with opening Mohawk's slopes in the largely snowless winter of 1948-49 with a machine-made ski surface. (Mr. Schoenknecht, who also went on to build Mount Snow in southern Vermont, was inducted in 1979 into the National Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.)
 It was a rudimentary snow-making effort, but it was revolutionary and helped paved the way for the sophisticated operations that have made hundreds of ski areas in the Northeast economically viable today.
 ''Maybe I'd be a trust-fund baby now if Dad had gotten some patents for what he was doing,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''But he didn't. To him, the snow making was just a means to an end, a way to get people skiing.''
 Ms. Lugar worked at Mohawk and Mount Snow growing up and then ventured to Western ski resorts where she became a ski patroller and ski instructor. She branched out to the hotel and hospitality end of the business after realizing that if she worked at night she would be free to ski all day.
 In 1982, with her father ailing from prostate cancer, she came back to help run Mohawk. She rediscovered that a ski area -- a place of respite for visitors -- is four or more consecutive months of seven-day-a-week, 10-hour workdays for the top employees. There are the dozens of full- and part-time employees to manage; enormous energy and snow-making costs to budget; a large food service operation to run; a marketing arm that requires strategy and skill; community relations, insurance and liability concerns; a ski school to direct; and racing programs to supervise.
 But Ms. Lugar enjoyed the atmosphere. ''You're surrounded by people having fun,'' she said. ''And that invigorates you.''
 She built a house across the street from Mohawk where she raised her two children.
 On July 18, 1989, a tornado ripped through northwestern Connecticut, destroying every lift on Mohawk Mountain. Pieces of the lodge roof and lift chairs were sucked into the air and hurled miles away. The trails were strewn with fallen trees and debris.
 With damage estimated at $2 million, Ms. Lugar wondered if Mohawk could be rebuilt. 
 Steve Hedden, who is the son of Mohawk's first official employee and whom Ms. Lugar has known all her life, had become a part-owner a few years earlier and taken control of on-mountain operations.
 ''One day not long after the tornado, Steve was pounding on my door at 5:30 in the morning,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''He said to me, 'Come on, we've got work to do.' And so we started cleaning everything up.''
 The rest of the ski industry pitched in, sending crews who volunteered their time. Ski resort engineers arrived and worked free to help restore the lifts.
 ''There were owners of little ski areas in Colorado sending us checks for $100,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''They would include a note, 'Sorry we can't be physically there but maybe this will help.' ''
 Mohawk reopened four months later, although Ms. Lugar conceded it was probably 10 years before Mohawk completely recovered.
 ''We had to do it,'' Mr. Hedden, 64, said last month. ''You couldn't let something good like Mohawk die.''
 Besides, he wasn't about to start a new career. ''I'm too lazy to go to work,'' said Mr. Hedden, who works at least 60 hours a week during the winter, not including some nights that stretch into the wee hours if there is a snow-making complication. ''I'm at a ski area all day long. That's not work.''
 Last month, as the new year began, the old wooden lodge at Mohawk was brimming with families and, it seemed, seniors. 
 Some parents had laptops propped on the picnic tables (the lodge installed wireless Internet three years ago). Teenagers strolled about attached to iPods. Young children gathered around the candy counter. A cat slept on a sunny outside railing. It was a thriving mix, even ethnically, which is somewhat uncommon at a ski area.
 ''We have Hispanic and Indian groups that visit regularly,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''We have to keep encouraging that kind of thing to support the notion that this is a sport for everyone. In that way, I think my mom and dad would be pretty proud of what Mohawk has become.''
 And while it had not snowed for several days, the white outlines of two dozen Mohawk trails were visible several miles from the mountain. That's a picture, 60 years later, that would have pleased Walt Schoenknecht.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRAWING CUSTOMERS: Mount Peter, above, in Warwick, N.Y., is only about five miles across the state border from Sussex County, where ski areas like the Hidden Valley Club and Mountain Creek, below, attract enthusiasts like Matt Campbell, airborne. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ1)
NEAR THE SUMMIT: Skiers on a chairlift head up Mount Peter, a family-run ski area in Warwick, N.Y. Amy Richardson, below, a daughter of the owners, cooks cheeseburgers for skiers young and old.
WAITING THEIR TURN: At the bottom of Mount Peter, skiers congregate near the lift for another ride to the top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ6)
FATHERS AND DAUGHTERS: Mike O'Neil, top, of Danbury, Conn., carries his daughter Morgan, 4, from the main lodge at Mohawk Mountain Ski Area in West Cornwall to the children's training carpet. Carol Lugar, above, is Mohawk's owner
 her father, Walt Schoenknecht, left, was its founder. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ7) MAP: A SHORT HAUL TO A WINTER WORKOUT: Here are some ski areas in the New York metropolitan region, with the vertical drop and number of trails for each. (pg.NJ6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); SKIING FACILITIES (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); CHILDREN (63%)

COMPANY: MOUNTAIN CREEK (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



43 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: His Nonlinear Reality, and Welcome to It

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
 THE shoot the night before had lasted into the next day, ending around 9 a.m. after a scene in which the perimeter of the kidney-shaped swimming pool had been set ablaze with rubbing alcohol. So when the artist Ryan Trecartin greeted a visitor that afternoon, sleepless for more than 24 hours, he ran his hands through his hair and said, ''This really isn't me.''
 He meant that he wouldn't be much good for an interview. But he could just as well have been speaking in the voice of one of the maniacally mutable characters he plays in the videos he has been writing and directing for the last several years, characters whose hold on identity and existence itself seems so tenuous that they must keep talking to keep from disappearing. (''If I didn't take the liberties to glue these prop knobs onto my safe space, who would you think that I'd be?'' demands one, in what has become Mr. Trecartin's signature unhinged vernacular: phrases that sound like something you might have heard before, on television or the Web, but haven't.) 
 Mr. Trecartin (pronounced tra-KAR-tun) was creating these characters more or less for himself and a band of friends and collaborators from the Rhode Island School of Design when one of his works, posted on his Friendster page, was seen in 2005 by the artist Sue de Beer, who brought it to the attention of a curator at the New Museum in Manhattan. In stunningly short order, even for an art world then still moving at breakneck speed, his work was everywhere: the 2006 Whitney Biennial, the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, the Saatchi Gallery in London, the collection of the Guggenheim Museum. And his most ambitious work to date, the movie-length ''I-Be Area,'' which made its debut in 2007 at the Elizabeth Dee Gallery in Chelsea, was greeted with a kind of joyous critical consensus rarely seen in the art world. 
 Mr. Trecartin, a friendly, loquacious, boyish-looking man who grew up in a steel-mill family in rural Ohio and who counts the Disney Channel and ''Dirty Dancing'' among his important artistic inspirations, was only 26 years old.
 So there has been a lot of anticipation about what he will come up with next. And for the last five months Mr. Trecartin, now 28, has been working long hours to meet it in a slightly ramshackle Spanish-mission-style house on the edge of the Little Haiti neighborhood here that he has rented for $2,000 a month and that serves as set, dormitory, editing suite, sculpture studio and site of a kind of continuous happening. The work that emerges -- conceived now as a trilogy, two parts video and the third a performance -- will take him back to the institution that helped discover him, the New Museum, where the video portions will be a key part of ''Younger Than Jesus,'' the museum's first installment of a new triennial that will focus on the work of artists under 33, opening on April 8.
 The raw material for Mr. Trecartin's new work is what is happening to the world economy as financial institutions implode and the mechanisms of capitalism and credit falter. So the house he has adopted as his temporary home is fitting: it is near the city's Design District, which has become an art-world hot spot in recent years, but in a rapidly changing middle-class neighborhood now dotted with foreclosure signs amid the crabgrass. 
 Even the reason he came to Miami plays well into his story line about transition. He originally arrived to make a smaller project at the request of the nonprofit Moore Space here, founded by the prominent collectors Rosa de la Cruz and Craig Robins, but they closed the space unexpectedly in October, in an example of the reordering that is beginning to unfold in the art world.
 So with help from his gallery, collectors, the New Museum and several of his own beleaguered credit cards, he rented the house and began making sets and costumes with his friend and closest collaborator, Lizzie Fitch, and others. As filming began, he welcomed a steady stream of friends and regulars, along with professional actors -- considerably more than he has used before, drawn partly from the child and teenage performers in Orlando, home of Walt Disney World and Universal Studios.
 When a reporter arrived at the house the day after the all-night shoot, Ms. Fitch was still asleep in the pool house, and the sun-splashed backyard was strewn with what looked like the aftermath of a small riot or a ritual for a new Day-Glo religion. Bricks lay everywhere around a brightly colored prop wall. Lifelike models of tiny purse dogs were scattered in the weeds. A white metal bed frame from Ikea was submerged in the pool. (Ikea and Target are the main sources of furniture and props for the project because of their ubiquity and faux-designery corporate blandness, Mr. Trecartin said.) Above the pool was a wooden armature rigged with a pulley that had been used to lower the artist into the water the night before, a deus ex machina in canary yellow shorts. 
 Asked how the neighbors reacted to such doings, he said that the house on one side was boarded up and occupied by squatters whom few people had seen. The eaves and roof of the large house on the other side are covered with security cameras, like vultures. No one is quite sure what its residents do. 
 ''There's a lot of really weird things going on at our house,'' Mr. Trecartin said. ''But those guys have these huge parties and actually make more noise, so they don't complain.''
 The shoots and plots have grown substantially more complex since his days in Rhode Island and later, with many members of his group, in New Orleans, where they lived until Hurricane Katrina destroyed their house and much of Mr. Trecartin's work. 
 In ''A Family Finds Entertainment,'' the video that brought him to public view, the fairly followable story involves a disturbed and disturbing black-toothed kid named Skippy (played by Mr. Trecartin) who borrows money from his parents, is filmed by a documentary maker, is hit by a car, is filmed by the documentary maker some more as he lies in the road, and whose soul seems to rise from his body when it hears the sounds of a rocking house party.
 By ''I-Be Area'' Mr. Trecartin's characters had started to serve more as vehicles for his hyperactively interconnected ideas about family, belonging, identity, gender, the Internet and the entertainment industry. But they are much more fascinating than allegorical characters generally have a right to be, with names like Pasta and Jammie, yakking endlessly, arrogantly, pleadingly, in phantasmagoric makeup and crazy clothes. The title character, I-Be, is less a person than an idea of a person waiting to hijack or be hijacked by a personality. (To make things more interesting, I-Be has a clone, and the clone has an online avatar who seems to be mounting a rebellion; the clone and the avatar are both played by Mr. Trecartin in a Southern accent that sounds something like Carroll Baker's in ''Baby Doll,'' except on acid.)
 In one Web interview Mr. Trecartin helpfully described a chaotic scene in a macabre wood shop near the end of the video as ''a conceptual part-cyber-hybrid platform that obeys and functions within both laws of physics and virtual-nonlinear reality and potential in Web 2.0/ultra-wiki communication malfunction liberation flow, add-on and debate presentation.''
 In an interview two days after the all-nighter, Mr. Trecartin, with a full night's sleep, said the new work, as yet unfinished and untitled, was using the dire state of the economy to describe a world in a state of epic, maybe never-ending transition. It is a place where the idea of credit becomes so abstract that ''credit cards start to have conceptual agendas'' and where people create and use their own currencies. The Web becomes a catalyst for a ''postgender world,'' said Mr. Trecartin, who is gay. Transvestites would not be the usual kind but instead ''astrological trannies'' or ''personality trannies,'' choosing to exist in a state of not quite being one person.
 Sitting in his office with Ms. Fitch, the walls behind him covered with circular diagrams that he said helped him keep track of characters, ideas and situations, he tried to describe parts of the numerous plots, which seem to collapse into one another like the perspectives in an Escher drawing.
 ''This is really hard to describe linearly,'' he said at one point. At another, trying to sum up after a long, rambling disquisition, he said, ''It's all just driven by situations in a personality-based system,'' causing Ms. Fitch to laugh and double over in her chair, because she has watched him go through these kinds of patient -- and quite sincere -- gyrations before. 
 Massimiliano Gioni, the director of special exhibitions for the New Museum, said he often used the term ''hysterical realism'' -- a phrase invented by the critic James Wood to characterize the overly manic language and story lines of fiction by writers like David Foster Wallace and Don DeLillo -- to describe Mr. Trecartin's work and that of several other younger artists. But in their art, he said, the hysteria is raised to even more absurd heights, a reflection of the world they have inherited, drowning in information and images.
 ''It's as if information is speaking the characters rather than the other way around,'' Mr. Gioni said.
 Lauren Cornell, the executive director of Rhizome (rhizome.org), the online art organization affiliated with the New Museum, said that though it was too limiting to describe Mr. Trecartin's work as being about life lived largely on and through the Web, ''he really captures how the logic of it is becoming embedded in our lives.''
 The garish low-budget look and feel of his work, and its near-anarchy, are often compared to early John Waters, to Paul McCarthy, to Mike Kelley and to drag auteurs like Jack Smith and Tom Rubnitz. But when asked, Mr. Trecartin said that he could not think of a work of art, video or otherwise, that had inspired him to want to become an artist. Ms. Cornell said that in long conversations with her in 2007 he told her that when he was first compared to Mr. Waters or to Mr. Smith, he had never heard of them. 
 ''When I was young and my baby sitters came over and turned on music videos, I was inspired by that,'' Mr. Trecartin said in his office, where a desk with a large Mac monitor and 10 hard drives shares space with the rumpled mattress he often sleeps on. He said he also reads obsessively, almost completely online, and is feverishly devoted to conspiracy-theory sites and TED Talks, the brainy Web lecture series.
 Ms. Fitch interrupted him disapprovingly: ''Ryan, I've seen you look at a piece of art and be inspired by it.''
 Mr. Trecartin responded: ''Yeah, but what? I really want to be reminded.'' 
 He said his goal when he begins to write -- the dialogue in his works, despite seeming ad-libbed, is highly scripted -- is for viewers to leave his work with a deep emotional response to a reflection of their culture, ''but in a way that they really can't put their finger on why they felt like that.''
 While he is ecstatic about his success among curators and collectors, he has an online audience that is just as important to him, one that doesn't approach his work as art per se. Speaking of an earlier work in an online interview, he once said that if it fared well only among art-world people, ''then I'll feel like a loser.'' 
 But judging from some of the comments on his YouTube channel, he is doing well by his other audience too. ''That one hour, 48 minutes was the closest I'd come to someone who could understand me,'' wrote a viewer with the screen name Scandibilly after watching ''I-Be Area.'' ''Thank you! Thank you! I understand!''
 Although he was born in 1981 into the first home-computer generation, Mr. Trecartin said he thinks that people even younger, who have never known a world without the Web, are the ones who understand his work most intuitively. He told of hiring several teenage actresses for his new video. He tried to explain the ideas for their surreal characters by simplifying them, but it wasn't working, so he just explained it the way he would have to himself. ''And they were like, 'Oh, yeah, O.K.' ''
 ''People born in the '90s are amazing,'' he said excitedly. ''I can't wait until they all start to make art.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 1 about the artist Ryan Trecartin may have left the incorrect impression about the role of the Moore Space in a project that Mr. Trecartin undertook at that gallery's request. Although the Moore Space closed in October, before Mr. Trecartin could complete the project, it did provide him the logistical and financial support it had promised toward the initial stages of the work. (Mr. Trecartin went on to create a different, larger project in the setting that he originally obtained using some of the resources provided by the Moore Space.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from Ryan Trecartin's latest video project, as yet unfinished and untitled. (IMAGES COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND ELIZABETH DEE GALLERY) (pg.AR1)
Ryan Trecartin, above, is working on a trilogy, two parts video and one part performance, inspired by the state of the economy. Above right and top, images from the piece. (IMAGES COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND ELIZABETH DEE GALLERY
 PHOTOGRAPH BY MORIS MORENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



44 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Good Bank, Bad Bank; Good Plan, Better Plan

BYLINE: By MAX HOLMES. 
Max Holmes is an adjunct professor of finance at the Stern Graduate School of Business at New York University and the chief investment officer of an asset management firm.

DATELINE: Greenwich, Conn. 

 BODY:
 THERE is a growing consensus that Washington has two options if it wants to end the credit freeze and restore confidence in our banking system. One is to, in effect, nationalize the major banks, which would be hugely expensive and would undermine our free-market system. The other is the ''bad bank'' solution, under which the government would print enormous amounts of money to buy all these banks' ''toxic'' assets and to put them into a huge new financial institution that would operate under federal control and sell them off over time. This is a better idea than nationalization, but the proposals along these lines being bandied around Washington would all be prohibitively expensive and probably ignite inflation. 
 However, there is more than one way to pull off a ''good bank/bad bank'' rescue, and a look at two examples from the 1980s may help show a path forward. 
 In 1988, as a young analyst at the investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert, I worked on two major ''bad bank'' transactions. In the first, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized First City National Bank of Houston. The government put up $1 billion to create a ''bad bank'' that took on First City's bad energy and commercial real estate portfolios; it was able to liquidate those assets over the next 15 years, recouping much of the money it had invested in the bailout. And First City was quickly able to raise $500 million of private capital and get a new lease on life (although it faltered a few years later because of unrelated bad loans). 
 That success led to a second government-orchestrated rescue that year. The bad commercial real estate and home mortgage portfolios of Mellon Bank of Pittsburgh were transferred to a bad bank called Grant Street National. While the government oversaw the transaction, the money Grant Street used to buy Mellon's troubled assets came from private investors looking for long-term profits. By 2005, Grant Street's liquidation was also successfully completed, at a profit. 
 The two bailouts differed in details. But both succeeded because when all of the bad assets were removed from the troubled bank's balance sheet, it was immediately able to raise new capital. This allowed management to focus on getting back to business without the distraction of dealing with underperforming loans. And the government and the outside investors who took up those loans could afford to be far more patient than the banks that held them. 
 The lessons for today? So far, the Treasury and the Federal Reserve have done a good job of consolidating the commercial and investment banking sector into four giants: Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. But based on those banks' continued depressed stock prices and the high cost of credit they are being forced to pay, it is clear that the market is not yet convinced of their health. 
 Instead of printing up money to create a huge, unwieldy ''bad bank,'' I would recommend creating separate bad banks for each of these four institutions (and perhaps some others), and financing them by having the government assume an amount of each good bank's corporate debt equal to the value of the troubled assets put into the bad banks. 
 It would work this way: The managements of each of the four banks would be given a one-time opportunity to sell any assets (from vanilla domestic corporate bonds to the most exotic foreign derivatives) to a new bad bank owned entirely by the government. The only condition would be that the four big banks would have to convey the assets at year-end, audited book values, not at some guess of what they might be worth down the road. 
 While these assets are ''toxic'' to the banks right now because they are illiquid, volatile and at depressed prices, the government can hold on to them until they regain value, making it an investment for the taxpayer that could pay off handsomely in the end. The public would have transparency, as it would know what the assets are and how they are liquidated over time.
 Most important, however, the government would pay for these troubled assets not by printing new cash, as under most current bad-bank proposals, but by taking on an equal dollar amount worth of each bank's ''liabilities'' -- that is, notes, bonds and other obligations that the bank owes to other lenders or investors. 
 The government, not the banks, would choose which liabilities it would take responsibility for. Presumably, federal officials would assume notes and bonds with maturities roughly in line with the real durations of the troubled assets they are taking off the banks' hands, mainly 3 years to 10 years. This would allow the government to pay down these liabilities through the cash flow that will be generated from the troubled assets themselves. The bad banks would have a proper match between assets and liabilities, a critical ingredient for managing any investment pool. 
 The bad banks would then be able to work out their troubled assets over time rather than sell them in a fire sale -- similar to the successful solution imposed on the savings and loans that were taken into the Resolution Trust Corporation in the 1990s. The government could hire professional money managers, working under an incentive-heavy compensation plan, to oversee the liquidation. (Disclosure: firms like mine might be potential candidates for such a job.) This would be far wiser than leaving it to government bureaucrats, who might simply seek to sell as many assets as quickly as possible and close the files. 
 The benefit to the good banks would be substantial: they would retain strong asset bases, they would no longer be burdened by toxic securities, and because they would be able to trust their fellow banks' balance sheets, they could safely extend credit to one another and to American businesses and households. With their equity capital remaining intact, they would easily meet domestic and international capital requirements. 
 The economy would benefit because the credit squeeze could finally end, as the good-bank employees could concentrate on lending rather than simply surviving. And because no new money would be printed, inflation would be much less of a concern. 
 Insurance companies, smaller banks, money-market funds and other institutions that are the primary holders of these banks' intermediate-term liabilities would also receive an enormous benefit: in place of ''weak'' debt they now hold from troubled banks, they would have securities guaranteed by the Treasury. 
 There are two other issues. First, for the four major banks, the good bank/bad bank transactions should be mandatory; the industry will stabilize only if the four work in tandem. Second, the government should hedge its bets by getting stock warrants -- a certificate giving the holder the right to purchase stock in the future at a guaranteed price -- equal to a significant percentage of each good bank's common equity (although certainly not a majority share).
 After all, assuming the good bank/bad bank asset transfers were successful, the stock prices of the good banks are likely to soar, as they will be the four best capitalized and cleanest banks in the world. The government, in turn, could sell the warrants to private parties, another bonus for taxpayers. And as those private investors exercised the warrants, they would infuse even more common equity capital into the banks, which is, of course, what they really need.
 With a clean balance sheet and the best capital ratios in the world, the resulting good banks -- still under majority private ownership -- could get back to doing what our economy most desperately needs from them: start making new loans.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CYPRIAN KOSCIELNIAK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (68%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



45 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: On the Street
 Bill Cunningham likens the leaps people take over mounds of snow to a dance. He also discusses how women dress practically for snow and rain, while men seem to wear dress shoes regardless of inclement weather. 
 nytimes.com/fashion
 A STORY OF LIFE JUST BELOW THE SURFACE
 In an audio feature, Darnell Dockett, an Arizona Cardinals defensive lineman, describes how his tattoos tell his life story, both the good and the bad. If the Cardinals are victorious in the Super Bowl, he will celebrate with another piece of body art.
 nytimes.com/sports
 VIDEO: TOWN TRIES TO RISE, 
 Phoenix-Like, From Ashes
 Braddock, Pa., is struggling for survival. While its big-city neighbor, Pittsburgh, has thrived despite the decline of the steel industry, Braddock has sunk ever lower. Can an energetic new mayor revitalize it?
 nytimes.com/national
 AUDIO: WOMYN'S LANDS
 Some lesbian communities that were formed at the height of the women's movement in the 1970s are becoming extinct as the residents age.
 nytimes.com/style
 INTERACTIVE: MOSTLY GLOOM FOR GLOSSIES
 The advertising environment for the nation's best-known magazines is swiftly eroding.
 nytimes.com/business
 VIDEO: THE END OF AN AFFAIR
 Shoppers just aren't feeling the love like they used to at the Mall of America, as the sinking economy keeps more dollars in pockets than out of them.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: WEEKEND BUSINESS
 David Leonhardt talks about the fiscal stimulus package and the economy, Floyd Norris about the view from Davos, and Tim O'Brien and David Segal about the lost love for America's malls.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: POLITICIAN AND ATHLETE
 New York State Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a possible candidate for the 2009 New York City mayoral campaign, is an avid sportsman.
 nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX CARDINALS (57%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (57%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



46 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Salazar, Nicholas Bishop

 BODY:
Michelle S. Salazar and Nicholas Bishop were married Saturday evening at Bishop's Lodge Ranch Resort and Spa in Santa Fe, N.M. The Rev. Barbara D. Henderson, a minister of the United Church of Christ, officiated at the nondenominational ceremony. On Jan. 2, the Rev. Jesus Fernandez, performed a Roman Catholic ceremony in Manila. 
 Mrs. Bishop, 33, is a technology advisory consultant at Forrester Research, a technology research firm in Cambridge, Mass. She graduated from the University of the Philippines, and received an M.B.A from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 She is the daughter of Amaryllis S. Salazar and Melito S. Salazar Jr. of Quezon City, the Philippines. Her father is a vice president for business affairs and a columnist at The Manila Bulletin. From 1995 to 1999, he served as undersecretary to the Department of Trade and Industry in Manila. Her mother is the chief financial officer of Seameo-Innotech, a nonprofit organization in Quezon City that aims to strengthen schools by offering seminars and training to teachers and principals. 
 Mr. Bishop, 31, is a research fellow at Harvard Medical School. He graduated cum laude from Rice, and received a Ph.D. in biology from M.I.T.
 He is the son of Jennifer and Alan R. Bishop of Los Alamos, N.M. His father is an assistant director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD TERRELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); TEACHER EDUCATION (66%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



47 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: The National Pastime(s)

BYLINE: By BRYAN CURTIS. 
Bryan Curtis is a senior editor at The Daily Beast.

 BODY:
About one-third of the nation is expected to tune into the Super Bowl, a gargantuan audience that is nothing new for the National Football League. The 17 most-watched programs in TV history have all been Super Bowl games.
 You'd think that alone would make a persuasive case for football's hold on the American psyche. But the National Football League isn't stopping there. It recently sent out a 29-page white paper making the case that professional football -- rather than basketball or baseball -- was ''America's choice.''
 It's only the latest fusillade in the on-going war between the sports leagues.
 The N.F.L.'s promoters marshaled numbers ranging from its TV ratings (''widest margin ever'') to game attendance (''more than 90 percent of capacity'') to the not-insignificant bump in CD sales an artist enjoys after performing in the Super Bowl halftime show. 
 One could be forgiven for thinking the N.F.L. was openly coveting the title of ''national pastime'' -- applied to baseball for the last 150 years and presumably coveted by the N.B.A., as well. While such muscle-flexing seems rather gauche in a time of recession (especially as the N.F.L. was preparing to lay off more than 10 percent of its staff), the question remains: Which is it? Football, baseball or basketball? 
 Let's go to the numbers.
 The N.F.L. makes what you might call the shock-and-awe case for being the national pastime. Each year, a Harris Interactive survey asks Americans to name their favorite sport. The N.F.L. has won each of the last 43 surveys, often rather handily. Last year, 30 percent of Americans chose pro football as their favorite sport, compared to 15 percent for baseball and just 4 percent for professional basketball. College football claims another 12 percent of hearts and minds (as well as ESPN's, which recently paid $500 million to carry college football's Bowl Championship Series from 2011 to 2014). All told, 42 percent of Americans prefer some form of football. 
 The N.F.L. likewise claims the biggest chunk of annual revenue (more than $7 billion in 2007, nearly a billion dollars more than baseball) and, among other things, the most tie-in video games sold; the highest average regular-season network TV ratings among African-Americans; and the most fantasy players.
 The league goes on to suggest that some 225 million Americans watched an N.F.L. game on TV this season -- ''nearly 100 million more than the record number of Americans who voted in the 2008 presidential election.'' This is true, in part, because while you can watch a football game dozens of times a year, you only get to vote once for president and you have to be at least 18.
 (You could expand the argument by pointing out that attendance at college football games reached nearly 49 million in 2007 compared to 32.8 million for college basketball, according to the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Attendance at college baseball games is microscopic by comparison.) 
 But plenty of people go to Major League Baseball games, which is why, much like the game's chroniclers, M.L.B. prefers to consider the argument with a wide-angle lens. Asked why baseball still deserves to be called the national pastime, partisans will cite one figure: 78.5 million. That is the attendance total recorded by Major League Baseball for the 2008 regular season. By comparison, the N.F.L.'s regular-season attendance was just over 17 million. Yes, football has a shorter season, but how can you call Major League Baseball less popular if it sells four times as many tickets?
 And those numbers don't include minor league baseball, which last year reached a record attendance of 43.2 million -- its fifth record-setting year in a row.
 But only so much about a sport's popularity can be determined by who watches from a box seat or BarcaLounger. ''If you have a national pastime, it doesn't necessarily refer to spectators, it refers to how people pass their time,'' says Andrew Zimbalist, a sports economist at Smith College.
 And it's here -- with the blacktop theory -- that basketball finally asserts its supremacy. There are 25.9 million regular basketball players in America (including its recently elected president), according to the most recent survey by the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association. Baseball and outdoor soccer rank second and third. Touch football comes in fourth and tackle football ranks sixth, trailing slow-pitch softball. 
 Worldwide, the International Basketball Federation estimates that 450 million people play the game, and, for the 2007-2008 season, the N.B.A. claimed 1.76 billion TV viewers worldwide.
 The debate over which sport truly ranks as America's pastime is part of a long and rich history of sports propagandizing. The term ''national pastime'' was first given to baseball in the 1850s, according to John Thorn, the author of ''Total Baseball,'' to connect baseball to the public's health and well-being. ''There were propagandists for baseball becoming the American equivalent of cricket, to provide for rugged constitutions and ruddy cheeks,'' Mr. Thorn said. In 1978, N.F.L. Films began marketing the Dallas Cowboys as America's Team, and two decades later, the league has itself become, by its own estimation, America's Choice, just like the A&P house brand.
 To look closely at the arguments also offers clues about what each sport aspires to be. Baseball still observes the touchingly anachronistic notion that one should see a game in person while enjoying a hot dog and belting out ''Take Me Out to the Ballgame'' during the seventh-inning stretch. The N.F.L.'s marketing -- like the rest of the N.F.L. -- is about bombast and an abiding nationalistic pride. 
 All of which will be on full display today when the Pittsburgh Steelers and Arizona Cardinals battle in the 43rd Super Bowl (whoops, that should be Super Bowl XLIII), with Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band as the halftime act. If last year's Super Bowl is a guide, nearly 100 million people are expected to tune in. Never mind the recession; advertisers are paying as much as $3 million for 30-second snatches of time -- or $100,000 a second. 
 But perhaps the national pastime argument is best left to the sports leagues to debate. ''I don't think the fans give a hoot,'' says David S. Neft, the author of encyclopedias on pro football and baseball.
 Because, in the end, the only comparative metric fans really care about -- whether they're at the Super Bowl, the World Series, or a water polo match -- will be what's on the scoreboard.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOUGLAS FRASER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RECORD REVENUES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); PAPER MILLS (70%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



48 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: It's a Great Time For a Makeover

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
INDIVIDUAL investors can't do much to improve the miserable performance of the stock market, but they may be able to help their own portfolios. 
 Thanks to the severe bear market of the last year or so -- and a 10-year stretch in which stocks have lost ground over all -- some planners say investors have a rare opportunity: they can completely refashion their portfolios with little or no tax consequence.
 ''This is your chance now to put your money where it really needs to go -- for the long run,'' said Mike Scarborough, president of Scarborough Capital Management, an investment advisory firm in Annapolis, Md. 
 These makeover opportunities, of course, are a consequence of losses practically everywhere you turn. No one wanted this carnage to happen, but now that it has, here are two ways to make something useful out of it: 
 BROADEN YOUR PORTFOLIO ''There's no better time to diversify than when everything is down,'' Mr. Scarborough said.
 A prime example is foreign stocks. He noted that before this downturn, when overseas stocks were soaring, risk-averse investors faced a quandary. ''You could either diversify knowing full well that you were paying high prices, or you could forgo that exposure, which meant that you might be adding volatility to your portfolio over the long run,'' he said.
 ''This conundrum no longer exists,'' he added, because stocks overseas have sunk even more than domestic shares, bringing the foreign valuations down to earth.
 The price-to-earnings ratio for foreign stocks in developed markets, for example, has tumbled to around 10, on average, from nearly 14 near the market's peak in 2007, according to Standard & Poor's Equity Research. (This is based on consensus forecast earnings for the coming 12 months.) P/E ratios for emerging-markets stocks have fallen even more -- to 8.5 from 14.5 near the peak.
 Because valuations globally have come down significantly, said Alec B. Young, an S.& P. equity strategist, ''this is a much better time to be looking at these markets.''
 Despite all the attention on international markets earlier in this decade, most individual investors still have only slim stakes abroad. According to figures tracked by Hewitt Associates, 12 percent of the equity portfolio of the typical 401(k) investor is in foreign shares. That's about half the level that many planners recommend.
 Real estate investment trusts are another example of once-frothy assets that have fallen significantly -- and that can be used for diversification.
 Over the last 20 years, investors would have slightly improved performance and reduced volatility by shifting 10 percent of their equity stake into REITs, according to Morningstar. Yet it was hard to justify moving to REITs earlier this decade, when Wall Street was euphoric about them.
 REITs have fallen more than 40 percent over the past year, on average, and while they still pose significant risks in a recession and real estate downturn, they may be worth a closer look.
 LOWER YOUR EXPENSES For years, investors have been told that a simple way to bolster long-term performance is to invest through low-cost mutual funds or exchange-traded funds because fund expenses reduce returns dollar for dollar. But it hasn't always been that simple for older investors to replace their holdings with less expensive funds. That's because it means selling your existing funds, potentially setting off capital gains taxes.
 The sharp decline in the stock market has taken care of much of that problem. Although there are exceptions, it's likely that market losses will mean lower capital gains taxes if you sell your holdings now, said Stuart L. Ritter, a financial planner at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore. 
 Over the past decade through Thursday, 52 percent of all domestic stock funds and 77 percent of all large-capitalization stock funds have lost money, according to Morningstar. And some losses have been substantial. Consider Putnam Growth Opportunities. This fund is down 7.3 percent a year, on average, for that period.
 Mutual fund losses are even more widespread over the past five years: 91 percent of all domestic stock funds fell during this period. So if you bought high-cost funds, you will likely be able to sell them with little or no tax consequence and move into low-cost alternatives.
 This strategy even works for investors already in reasonably inexpensive funds. Say you're now in a large-cap fund like Vanguard U.S. Growth; its annual expense is a modest 0.43 percent. But because this fund is down over the past decade, you might easily sell it -- capturing the tax loss, which can be used to offset gains or up to $3,000 in ordinary income -- then swap into a cheaper option like an index fund that tracks the S.& P. 500. 
 Examples are Vanguard 500 Index, which charges 0.15 percent annually, and Fidelity Spartan 500, 0.10 percent. You might also consider E.T.F.'s tracking the broad market -- like iShares S.& P. 500, at 0.09 percent. 
 Buying and selling E.T.F. shares, however, requires brokerage commissions. So investors who wish to put small amounts to work every month or quarter may want to consider a traditional index fund or actively managed portfolio that doesn't charge sales commissions.
 ''It's pretty obvious that there are a lot of opportunities in this market,'' Mr. Scarborough said. The key is not to delay so long that the markets begin to recover, closing this window of opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); EQUITY RESEARCH (62%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (62%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (56%) MARYLAND USA (56%); MARYLAND, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



49 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: The Mile-High Office

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GARVEY. 
William Garvey is the editor in chief of the magazine Business and Commercial Aviation.

 BODY:
BUSINESS jets are a force for good. Really.
 This may seem like an outrageous statement, especially right after the public hubbub that caused Citigroup -- the beneficiary of billions in government bailout money -- to cancel the delivery of a new $42 million jet. 
 But consider this: The General Aviation Manufacturers Association estimates that more than one million people are employed manufacturing, maintaining, flying and managing business aircraft. In addition to keeping legions at work in top-paying jobs, business aircraft facilitate and expand commerce for their users and contribute $150 billion to the American economy annually. 
 With that in mind, it's astounding to see members of Congress, the very people doling out hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars to failed companies, disparaging and even actively trying to curtail this industry, which is already reeling from the economic and credit crises. The business jet is merely a tool -- one that, employed correctly, could help those same struggling institutions soar again and start paying back the money owed, with interest.
 Perhaps a reality check would help: Envision a rectangle 11 feet long by 4 feet 9 inches wide. Now, stand in the center, scrunching down so the top of your head is no more than 57 1/2 inches from the bottom of your heels. That's the cabin area of those riding in a Cessna Citation CJ1, which together with its predecessors, comprise the most populous model -- by far -- of business jet in the world.
 The oval cabin has seats for five passengers. Up front is a mini-pantry with a coffee dispenser; in back, a compact lavatory. The space is roughly equivalent to a large family van, and while quite comfortable, the jet is short on glamour and luxury.
 Rather, the Cessna's popularity, along with that of its close competitors, centers on another data point: 3,250. That's the number of feet of runway required for the aircraft to accelerate to flying speed and take off or, should something catastrophic occur, slam on the brakes and still have pavement remaining. 
 That figure -- 3,250 feet -- means business aircraft can alight on any of the 5,000 or so public-use airports scattered throughout the nation's suburbs, small towns and back country, as well as land at small city airports abandoned by airlines decades ago. By contrast, the airlines fly to only about 500 airports. and of those, fewer than 70 get about three-quarters of all traffic. 
 If two companies are competing for business, the one using a business aircraft can fly directly to one of those smaller airports and get to lunch with the client before the other guys taking the commercial airlines show up. 
 And the business people with the corporate jet won't just arrive faster; they'll also show up better prepared. After all, most companies send teams of people, and in their own airplane they're free to discuss confidential information or polish up that PowerPoint presentation. What's more, they can use the phones, their BlackBerrys and the Internet en route. In other words, these jets are offices that move.
 Just look at Wal-Mart. That company's success is due, in part, to its fleet of hard-working, bare-bones Learjets that shuttle managers, executives and sales staff from their headquarters in Arkansas to towns throughout the country. The reliance on business aircraft began with its founder, Sam Walton, flying a small single-engine plane (still the most common type of business aircraft) to scout out store locations.
 Here's another thing: The aircraft and their systems are, for the most part, made here in the United States, by union and non-union workers, in places like Indianapolis and Cincinnati; Wichita, Kan.; and Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
 And with their impressive performance and construction, they're prized throughout the world. In 2007, about half the business jets delivered by American manufacturers went to foreign buyers that paid more than $3 billion for them. Manufacturers elsewhere, including in Japan and Germany, once tried to compete, but they were so utterly trounced by American ingenuity and craftsmanship that they simply gave up.
 There are foreign-made business aircraft, to be sure; for example, Citigroup had planned to buy a Falcon, made by the highly regarded French company Dassault. But even those are stuffed with American-made avionics, engines, subsystems and interiors. Indeed, Dassault's largest plant is in Little Rock, Ark., where some 2,000 workers complete Falcon interiors and ready them for delivery. 
 Finally, the members of Congress who are so irate about Citigroup's almost-purchase would do well to remember this: business jets are also widely employed by our government for search and rescue missions, surveillance, medical evacuations and crew training. 
 Of course, their value as speedy, secure executive transports is also much appreciated and used by high-ranking military and civilian officials, including, yes, many congressmen. A business jet has even served, when the president needs something less than a jumbo, as a diminutive Air Force One. 
 If you truly need to be there and there and there and back by seven, business aircraft may provide the only way. This is an industry that helps further the country's commerce and interests -- and it deserves a bright future, not a public drubbing. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



50 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2411 words

HEADLINE: Snowy Slopes, Within Easy Reach

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: WEST Cornwall, Conn. 

 BODY:
 STANDING in the old wooden lodge of the Mohawk Mountain Ski Area here last month, Carol Lugar gazed at a 60-year-old photograph of her father holding what resembles an oversize garden hose. A mist emanates from the hose, and snow is all around. The picture shows one of the earliest snow-making systems in America, an invention that saved the ski industry in the Eastern United States.
 ''It was funny growing up with a father who everyone thought was nuts for trying to make snow,'' said Ms. Lugar, who now owns the ski area founded by her father, Walt Schoenknecht. ''When he died in 1987 and snow making was on every ski area in the country, people thought he was a little less nuts.''
 To the west, about 50 miles north of Manhattan in the Hudson River Valley, Macy's executives opened the Mount Peter Ski Area in 1936 because they wanted a country setting to demonstrate and exhibit the store's ski equipment and apparel. Babe Ruth came to ski, as did other celebrities. 
 Seventy-three years later, Mount Peter in Warwick, N.Y., welcomes about 50,000 visitors a year, with a regular clientele from as far away as Long Island.
 ''Mount Peter has been here a long time and struggled financially many years, but it never closed,'' said Gail Sampson, who along with her husband, Don, has owned the ski area for 38 years. ''Now we have grandparents who learned to ski here bringing grandkids back to teach them to ski.''
 There are nearly a dozen ski areas in the metropolitan New York area, and given their proximity to the country's largest ski and snowboarding market, it is not surprising that they have played a major role in the history of American snow sports. 
 What may be overlooked is how essential these small, mostly family-run ski areas remain to the soul, spirit and financial future of the sport.
 They are not only feeder systems for the larger ski areas of New England, New York and the Rocky Mountains, they are valuable community resources, affordable places of outdoor recreation and prized winter playgrounds where countless children are introduced to skiing or snowboarding.
 To stand on the sun deck beside the trails of Mohawk Mountain at lunchtime on a crisp winter afternoon, surrounded by a sea of smiling young faces, is to understand the worth of a small, accessible ski area.
 ''I miss seeing snowmen on lawns when I'm driving in the winter these days,'' Ms. Lugar said, as she pondered the appeal of her ski area. ''The new, increased structure of kids' lives prevents some things. But a small ski area offers kids freedom. They can take a run on their own, and they can come play in the snow. There's a freedom for the parents, too. So I'm glad we can do that for them.''
 Ms. Lugar's life story is typical of those in ski-area management. It is rarely a career choice but more a mix of lifestyle, avocation and advocacy. Born the year Mohawk Mountain opened 61 years ago, Ms. Lugar was raised in a tiny apartment affixed to the Mohawk lodge. ''The ski trails were just a big backyard to me,'' she said.
 Her father and mother, Peg, were skiers from the New Haven area, with Mr. Schoenknecht a particularly ardent skiing advocate who believed everyone should try the sport. Mohawk would be the place where he could breed thousands of converts to skiing.
 ''But there were snowless winters, and it bothered him to no end that he couldn't control the weather,'' Ms. Lugar said, seated in her Mohawk office late last month. ''So first he experimented with crushed ice. He imported tons of ice from local ponds and refrigeration plants and spread it on the hill with a bulldozer.''
 The ice melted quickly. It was time to think of something else. For much of the 20th century, Connecticut had dozens of tobacco farms, and Mr. Schoenknecht observed how they would spray the leaves with a mist from compressed air and water guns. He approached some engineers with the idea of a similar machine that would produce snow.
 Some continue to argue over who installed the first snow-making system that blanketed the ground with artificial snow, but, according to Jeff Leich, the executive director of the New England Ski Museum in Franconia, N.H., Mr. Schoenknecht is widely credited with opening Mohawk's slopes in the largely snowless winter of 1948-49 with a machine-made ski surface. 
 Mr. Schoenknecht, who also went on to build Mount Snow in southern Vermont, was inducted in 1979 into the National Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
 It was a rudimentary snow-making effort, but it was revolutionary and helped paved the way for the sophisticated operations that have made hundreds of ski areas in the Northeast economically viable today.
 ''Maybe I'd be a trust-fund baby now if Dad had gotten some patents for what he was doing,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''But he didn't. To him, the snow making was just a means to an end, a way to get people skiing.''
 Ms. Lugar worked at Mohawk and Mount Snow growing up and then ventured to Western ski resorts where she became a ski patroller and ski instructor. She branched out to the hotel and hospitality end of the business after realizing that if she worked at night she would be free to ski all day.
 In 1982, with her father ailing from prostate cancer, she came back to help run Mohawk. She rediscovered that a ski area -- a place of respite for visitors -- is four or more consecutive months of seven-day-a-week, 10-hour workdays for the top employees. There are the dozens of full- and part-time employees to manage; enormous energy and snow-making costs to budget; a large food service operation to run; a marketing arm that requires strategy and skill; community relations, insurance and liability concerns; a ski school to direct; and racing programs to supervise.
 But Ms. Lugar enjoyed the atmosphere. ''You're surrounded by people having fun,'' she said. ''And that invigorates you.''
 She built a house across the street from Mohawk where she raised her two children.
 On July 18, 1989, a tornado ripped through northwestern Connecticut, destroying every lift on Mohawk Mountain. Pieces of the lodge roof and lift chairs were sucked into the air and hurled miles away. The trails were strewn with fallen trees and debris.
 With damage estimated at $2 million, Ms. Lugar wondered if Mohawk could be rebuilt. 
 Steve Hedden, who is the son of Mohawk's first official employee and whom Ms. Lugar has known all her life, had become a part-owner a few years earlier and taken control of on-mountain operations.
 ''One day not long after the tornado, Steve was pounding on my door at 5:30 in the morning,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''He said to me, 'Come on, we've got work to do.' And so we started cleaning everything up.''
 The rest of the ski industry pitched in, sending crews who volunteered their time. Ski resort engineers arrived and worked for free to help restore the lifts.
 ''There were owners of little ski areas in Colorado sending us checks for $100,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''They would include a note, 'Sorry we can't be physically there but maybe this will help.' ''
 Mohawk reopened four months later, although Ms. Lugar conceded it was probably 10 years before Mohawk completely recovered.
 ''We had to do it,'' Mr. Hedden, 64, said last month. ''You couldn't let something good like Mohawk die.''
 Besides, he wasn't about to start a new career. ''I'm too lazy to go to work,'' said Mr. Hedden, who works at least 60 hours a week during the winter, not including some nights that stretch into the wee hours if thereis a snow-making complication. ''I'm at a ski area all day long. That's not work.''
 MOUNT PETER'S Don Sampson was also born the same year that the ski area he owns opened to the public, although unlike Ms. Lugar, Mr. Sampson was not present for the inaugural years. 
 Mr. Sampson, now 72, came to Mount Peter in 1966 to run its ski school and met his wife, Gail, at a Mount Peter ski club meeting a few years later. They've been married 40 years -- all of it in the ski business.
 In 1971, when it looked as if Mount Peter would close, the Sampsons took out a small business loan and bought the area.
 ''The first winter we were owners it snowed like a banshee, the place was packed and we thought we were geniuses,'' said Mrs. Sampson, 60. ''Then it didn't snow for another six or seven winters, and boy, we were hurting.''
 To make ends meet, while running the ski area, Gail also worked in a bank and Don had a construction business. They lived in an apartment above the one base lodge and raised two daughters there. Along the way, they held some other odd jobs and waited for the snow-making and snow-grooming technology to get better -- and cheaper, so a small area (Mount Peter has 10 trails, a fraction of the number at large ski areas) could afford it.
 By the 1980s, the snow making and grooming was much improved. Mr. Sampson said it once took him six days to cover one trail with manmade snow; nowadays he can cover six trails in 24 hours.
 But business was still unpredictable for small ski areas, and many were closing. 
 Various gas and energy crunches kept people away, the weather was iffy and more skiers seemed to be gravitating toward bigger mountains. The Sampsons considered yearly offers to sell the hillside that made up Mount Peter, especially since Orange County, its location, was experiencing a housing boom.
 ''As you get older you say, 'I could be on a Florida beach right now instead of worrying about snow-making temperatures or whether the soda dispenser is still working,' '' Mrs. Sampson said.
 But the Sampsons never sold.
 ''It's a crazy business, but this was our home, and we just couldn't leave it,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''A lot of people came here and had fun. We stayed because of our kids, who were happy. And we thought they might want to run it someday.''
 In the 1990s, business started to rebound, and Mount Peter reinvested profits into snow making to ensure a more reliable product. 
 People who learned to ski at Mount Peter in the 1960s and '70s now had children, and when it came time for them to learn to ski or snowboard, they were drawn to the small-mountain environment they remembered.
 ''We acknowledged our place in the business and focused on it,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''And when you say you are a mom and pop place and cater to moms and dads, it all works a lot better.''
 The Sampsons' daughters, Rebecca Sampson, 35, and Amy Richardson, 33, each went off to college, but have now returned and are actively running the ski area.
 ''We've come a long way, and I think part of it is that people are looking for a small mountain experience in their lives,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''People at small mountains are more courteous and look out for each other. Parents come here, sit in the lodge and look up at the mountain knowing that every trail comes right back to the lodge, so it's easy to keep tabs on your kids.
 ''We're unpretentious. We have a steep expert trail, but on weekends 95 percent of the people are using our beginner terrain.''
 The Sampsons say they root for every small mountain in the region, viewing none as direct competition.
 ''We all need each other, and the ski industry needs all of us to promote the sport,'' Mr. Sampson said. ''If we were gone, prices would go up, and only the affluent could learn to ski. In the end, there would be a lot fewer people driving to Vermont, too. Skiers don't grow on trees -- they grow to love the sport at the local mountain.''
 IN New Jersey, the northwestern hills of Sussex County were once mostly quarries and craggy cliffs, so isolated they were dubbed ''the Ice Box of New Jersey.'' In the 1960s, entrepreneurs saw promise in the barren landscape and built not one, but two, successful ski areas. By the 1970s, according to Skiing Magazine, more people were learning to ski in New Jersey than in any other state in the nation. 
 The two ski areas have since evolved into Mountain Creek, a 45-trail complex that has embraced snowboarding and new school skiers, who use twin-tip skis to play in the area's terrain parks. Mountain Creek produced Danny Kass, a silver medalist in snowboarding at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and the 2006 Games in Turin, Italy.
 ''I grew up with a local mountain in my backyard,'' Kass said at the Games in Utah when asked about his New Jersey roots. ''When I was a kid, it was like Aspen to me.''
 Eleven years ago, Intrawest, a ski industry corporate giant, bought what was then the Vernon Valley/Great Gorge ski area, about 12 miles south of Mount Peter. Intrawest pumped many millions of dollars into the facilities and lifts for the newly named Mountain Creek.
 The Sampsons did not fear for their place in the market.
 ''Different clientele,'' Mrs. Sampson said. ''We know that when teenagers get old enough to drive, they'll want to go there. That's O.K.''
 Mountain Creek further separated itself from other ski areas in the region last year by dedicating almost half its trails to a terrain park with features for snowboarders and new school skiers. The lodge near these slopes got a cultural makeover, too, with a younger, adventure sports, theme. Mountain Creek officials said the changes have been a success, and that they have received positive reactions in guest satisfaction surveys.
 Mountain Creek, the biggest ski area in the metropolitan area and a snowboarders' haven, is used by two to three times the number of skiers and snowboarders as other nearby smaller mountains.
 At Mohawk Mountain, during the holiday week as the year began, the old wooden lodge was brimming with families, and it seemed, seniors. 
 Some parents had laptops propped on the picnic tables (the lodge installed wireless Internet three years ago). Teenagers strolled about attached to iPods. Young children gathered around the candy counter. A cat slept on a sunny outside railing. It was a thriving mix, even ethnically, which is somewhat uncommon at a ski area.
 ''We have Hispanic and Indian groups that visit regularly,'' Ms. Lugar said. ''We have to keep encouraging that kind of thing to support the notion that this is a sport for everyone. In that way, I think my mom and dad would be pretty proud of what Mohawk has become.''
 And while it had not snowed for several days, the white outlines of two dozen Mohawk trails were visible several miles from the mountain. That's a picture, 60 years later, that would have pleased Walt Schoenknecht.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPRAYED ON: A ski trail at Mohawk Mountain in West Cornwall, Conn., where Walt Schoenknecht pioneered snow making.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEAR THE SUMMIT: Skiers on a chairlift head up Mount Peter, a family-run ski area in Warwick, N.Y. Amy Richardson, below, a daughter of the owners, cooks cheeseburgers for skiers young and old.
WAITING THEIR TURN: At the bottom of Mount Peter, skiers congregate near the lift for another ride to the top.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI6)
FATHERS AND DAUGHTERS: Mike O'Neil, top, of Danbury, Conn., carries his daughter Morgan, 4, from the main lodge at Mohawk Mountain Ski Area in West Cornwall to the children's training carpet. Carol Lugar, above, is Mohawk's owner
 her father, Walt Schoenknecht, left, was its founder.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI7) CHART: A Short Haul to a Winter Workout: Here are some ski areas in the New York metropolitan region, with the vertical drop and number of trails for each. Chart details various regions of the Northeast.(pg. LI6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); CHILDREN (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



51 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Past Before It's Built Over

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PURDYS 

 BODY:
 THIS 19th-century picture postcard of a hamlet is tucked away on a hill off the main roads of northeastern Westchester, so few outsiders ever get to appreciate it. That's because around 1900, when New York City wanted to create another reservoir, the hamlet was literally moved from a main road, its houses dragged by ox-driven sledges a mile uphill while residents actually lived inside, in a process that took months.
 The hamlet is not in danger of being moved again, but its parent town, North Salem, wants to make sure that Purdys and the rest of the town's bucolic landscape stay as timeless as they seem. It has reinvigorated its Historic Preservation Commission, which during its 25 years has designated as landmarks 19 buildings, an arched stone bridge, a granite boulder and a road. 
 The commissioners are distributing fliers at Town Hall asking residents to volunteer to have their homes designated.
 ''Do you own a Victorian or Greek Revival home or a Colonial barn?'' the flier asks, in the tone of some bygone advertisement for liver pills. ''Do you have unusual outbuildings or a unique stone wall? Your home, barn, outbuilding, office or natural phenomenon could be the next North Salem landmark.''
 There have been no volunteers yet. Having a designated house restricts a homeowner's ability to give it an extreme makeover, and even selling landmark houses can be two-edged: Some buyers appreciate the history, others are put off by the burdens of aging facades. But the town, which still has plenty of orchards and horse farms, wants to save old buildings from demolition or development to make it possible, as the flier says, ''for our great-grandchildren to live in a town that looks much like the one we enjoy today.''
 That's not a small ambition. While the wounded economy has slowed the march of progress, the historic appearance of Westchester's villages is being threatened everywhere by people who want to build ever grander houses in an era of sometimes-ostentatious consumption. In suburbs like Pleasantville, Scarsdale and Katonah, quaint houses are being torn down to make way for homes with full-blown movie theaters and gymnasiums. Grandeur has replaced convenience. Congestion is encroaching even on Westchester's northern frontier.
 ''The big picture is that Westchester is slowly becoming suburban sprawl,'' said Bruce Barton Bucholtz, the North Salem preservation commission's vice chairman. ''Our children and grandchildren have no idea of the surrounding history or the archaeology or architecture.''
 It's true, cynics might argue, that protecting venerable North Salem properties would make life more picturesque for resident moguls and celebrities like David Letterman and the skater Dick Button. But the town's plebeians, as well as its plutocrats, want to retain North Salem's pastoral look.
 The town of 5,000 people, which embraces the hamlets of Purdys, Croton Falls and Salem Center, dates to 1788 and was a standard working community, with quarries, lumber mills and a plant that produced Borden condensed milk. Until the Titicus Reservoir upended life, Purdys had two hotels, a blacksmith shop and a red-light district. 
 The preservation commission was started in 1984, when an expansion of Interstate 684 made residents realize there was nothing to protect houses from eminent domain. Some old houses have since been torn down by owners or speculators. A 62-room Marriott is planned. Like other Westchester towns, North Salem must do its share for building affordable housing, so it is about to approve a development for that purpose. The question, as the commission sees it, is one of balance -- between growth and preservation.
 ''When somebody drives through 10 or 20 years from now, they'll see a Colonial structure, they'll see a Victorian structure, they'll see a Federal structure,'' said Susan Thompson, the town historian. ''Otherwise, people will forget.''
 The commission has cataloged old houses suitable for designation, doing painstaking historical research in land records and moldering newspapers and interviewing longtime residents. It has chosen not to force landmark status on any homeowners.
 ''It's so much nicer when they want the designation,'' said Cynthia Curtis, chairwoman of the town's planning board. ''You don't want this negative feeling.''
 Indeed, the commission has been quite flexible. When a resident living in a landmark -- an old Methodist church -- wanted to paint it red instead of white, the commission yielded. As one commission member, Debby Moore, said, churches in the 19th century were painted ''with whatever color was on hand, and red was often left over from painting a barn.''
 The commission's research keeps unearthing poignant tintypes. The newest landmark is the home of Margaret M. Mahoney. She was the principal of the Purdys school and purchased her 1830 home in 1900, when New York City auctioned off houses that would have to be demolished or moved to make way for the reservoir. Her house, a white two-story with a wraparound porch and shuttered windows, ended up as what today is 12 Main Street in downtown Purdys. 
 Ms. Mahoney had a compelling life. She switched careers to become the hamlet's postmistress and lost a leg in a train accident on Feb. 6, 1907. She died at home on May 30, 1945, two weeks after the Nazis surrendered.
 There's a lot of bittersweet back story to her simple house, and thanks to the efforts of the preservation commission, the people of North Salem -- and maybe a few visitors -- will get to reflect on it when they pass by.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HISTORY: Bruce Barton Bucholtz at a stone bridge in Purdys.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); HISTORIC SITES (88%); HISTORY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MAMMALS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



52 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND SOUTHHAMPTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: From Monstrosity to Teardown

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON 

 BODY:
 IT is high time, arguably, for an unsolicited eulogy for Dragon's Gate, the oversize oceanfront mansion that, for the last quarter-century, has gained renown around Southampton, according to the village's historic preservation consultant, Zachary N. Studenroth, as ''the house we love to hate.'' That's the closest he gets to a compliment, unless describing the place as a chateau on steroids counts as complimentary.
 It is also the garish gargoyle of a house, quite the exhibitionist, some of us love to gawk at, though not for much longer: Evidently its current owner, the minimalist fashion designer Calvin Klein, has had his fill of the hating and gawking. His solution? Make the house disappear. 
 On Monday night, the village's historic preservation and architectural review board signed off -- with Mr. Studenroth's blessing -- on what amounts to a dual death warrant for Dragon's Gate: a certificate of appropriateness for its demolition and full approval of the three-sectioned Modernist structure that will take its place. But Dragon's Gate is irreplaceable.
 ''You could even make the case that it is not universally accepted that this thing is a monstrosity,'' said Mr. Studenroth, who is not a member of that universe. Since it has been deemed to have no external architectural significance, Dragon's Gate is a goner. ''It's the last chapter in a very strange story.'' 
 The big lug hunkers atop the dune it is supposed to share with its plus-size Meadow Lane neighbors, monopolizing it like a road hog, impervious to the scythe of the January wind, its 50-foot turret and jutting chimneys poking holes in the horizon. It is tantalizingly visually accessible; it would take a sequoia forest to landscape this seaside Camelot for privacy. 
 Like any iconic local eyesore, it will be missed. Or maybe not. Monstrosity does seem to be the buzzword that architecturally enlightened folks opt for when describing Dragon's Gate, which occupies a historic district yet apparently retains no relevant historic value. 
 But don't blame the house; cite human intervention. It was an unobjectionable, patrician Georgian colonial that Henry Francis du Pont built in 1926, named Chestertown House and filled with 18th-century artifacts he later moved to his Delaware estate, Winterthur. 
 The Chestertown aesthetic died with Mr. du Pont in 1969. In 1970, Andy Warhol's protegee Baby Jane Holzer bought the house but promptly defaulted on the mortgage. Chestertown was sold at auction, paving the way for its transformation by the financier and tax scofflaw Barry Trupin, who did his gutting before Southampton's adoption of a clear code of rules and regulations for its historic district. Architectural excess, not integrity, seemed the blueprint for Dragon's Gate.
 The tacky fortress was most recently known as the former Worldcom director Francesco Galesi's Elysium and more famously known as Mr. Trupin's Dragon's Gate. Presumably Mr. Klein did not lay eyes on the house and decide it so offended his aesthetic sensibilities that he had to spend $30 million to buy and bulldoze it (he did not respond to requests for comment). He doesn't seem the violent type.
 Mr. Klein, whose design aesthetic, if not his financial portfolio, tends to lean in the direction of understated, may have fallen so in love with the property, a seven-acre plot on the ocean, that he convinced himself that he could rehabilitate the bloated domicile it contained. Learn to love it, perhaps. In 2003, he bought the land as well as, sigh, the shambling 38,000-square-foot Normanesque castle that did not so much grace as deface it -- a place so humongous that Mr. Trupin's trove of medieval armor, a shark tank and a 16th-century Norman pub imported from France inhabited it without fear of, uh, commingling. Or clashing.
 But ultimately it seems that Dragon's Gate, the culmination of Mr. Trupin's ungainly and unsanctioned -- regarding building permits -- annihilation and renovation of Chestertown in the 1980s was worth more to Mr. Klein demolished than intact.
 An East Hampton architect with a knack for maximizing vistas, Michael Haverland, was retained to raze and repurpose the premises -- he trimmed the square footage of the proposed new house, but not the footprint, by half. 
 Not everyone applauded the radical update. The new, glassy Klein residence, whose blueprints had been wending their way through the architectural review and zoning boards like a hot potato all winter, was denigrated in a letter to the board by a Meadow Lane neighbor, William J. Williams Jr., as resembling a hospital clinic or Florida office building. If Mr. Williams is no stickler for Modernism, that heliport down the lane must really burn him up.
 He even had harsh words for the color scheme: in-your-face white. As if Mr. Klein would be so gauche as to make a major palette error. The neighbors have since been assured that the new structure will take its hue cues from beach sand, its roof will be greenish, and it will ''harmonize'' with its surroundings in a way Dragon's Gate never has.
 Mr. Studenroth, who is also the director of the Sag Harbor Whaling and History Museum, was brought in to advise the village's architectural review board, none of them architects, on the home's historic value. On the exterior, at least, he could not prove there was any; the board has no jurisdiction over interiors. 
 One last thing. The issue of whether, in this dire economic landscape, it is unseemly to grant a homeowner permission for a grand-scale knockdown like this was not, Mr. Studenroth said, something he or the board lost any sleep over. 
 ''The reason no one ever asked Mr. Klein why he would spend $30 million for the house and then raze it,'' Mr. Studenroth said, ''is that the answer is simple. Because he can.''
 Yes he can.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Island column last Sunday, about Calvin Klein's plans to raze and replace the mansion he owns on Meadow Lane in Southampton Village, misstated the name by which it has been known for years. It is Dragon's Head, not Dragon's Gate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SIGN-OFF: Dragon's Gate, the oceanfront property of the fashion designer Calvin Klein that he has gotten permission to raze.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KUNTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); MAMMALS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); APPROVALS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



53 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4864 words

HEADLINE: 2 Kids 0 Husbands Family

BYLINE: By EMILY BAZELON. 
Emily Bazelon, a contributing writer, is a senior editor at Slate. Her last article for the magazine was about a new kind of integration in schools.

 BODY:
At 5:45 a.m. on a recent weekday morning, Fran McElhill padded into her kitchen, in square-framed glasses and a knee-length cotton nightgown, and put on the day's first pot of coffee. While it brewed, she sorted laundry -- pencil jeans for her slight 7-year-old daughter, Lili, Nike T-shirts for 10-year-old MeiLin. When the girls woke up, their long hair matted from sleep, Fran gave them each a mug of Campbell's vegetable soup and parked them in front of Nickelodeon so she could get dressed for her job as a lawyer at a regional New Jersey firm. 
 While MeiLin sipped her soup and watched TV, Lili pulled out a box of Polly Pocket dolls, stored in the family room between a soft and worn leather couch and a shelf of Fran's casebooks from law school. ''This is the mom and this is the sister,'' Lili said, standing a doll with a ponytail next to another taller one. She laid a third doll gently on top of a large red plastic Lego block. ''This is the little sister. She broke her leg, so the doctors are operating on her. They say a prayer first, and then they operate.'' 
 Lili reached back into the box for more dolls. ''She is going to be O.K. Look, she has a lot of sisters. And friends. These are all sisters and friends,'' she said, scooping up a handful of dolls with all shades of hair. ''They have to share clothes and hairbrushes. They say, 'That's mine!' ''A few minutes later, Lili looked up and saw her own brush in the hands of her own sister. MeiLin was using it to pull her hair into a ponytail. ''That's mine!'' Lili said. MeiLin didn't hand it over. ''You can use Mom's,'' MeiLin said.
 Like Lili's dolls, the circle that radiates out from this two-bedroom ranch house in the New Jersey suburb of Moorestown is a largely female world. Fran and her daughters spend much of their time outside school and work with a small group of other single mothers and their girls. Among them is Fran's friend of 10 years, Nancy Clark. Fran is 49; Nancy is 50. Six years ago, they went together to China to adopt Lili and Nancy's daughter Katelei, whom they called ''salt-and-pepper twins'' because Lili had fair skin and Katelei is darker. 
 In the summers, Fran, Nancy, their friends Lynne Rose and Susan Bacso and the women's total of eight daughters, all adopted from China, drive south to North Carolina's Outer Banks. At the end of a day of taking turns watching the girls on the beach, Fran drives the group (or at least part of it) down back roads in a Toyota minivan that she bought for these trips. There's no contract for the women's nonromantic relationships. They are not binding. But Fran and her friends sometimes half-jestingly imagine a kind of semi-permanence. ''We kid about how when we're old and decrepit, and we've sold our houses to pay for college, we'll buy a trailer by the side of the road,'' she says. ''I'll go, 'Hey, Nance, how about that one?' and Susan or Lynne will say, 'We gotta get a double-wide, for all of us.' '' 
 IN 1960, UNMARRIED MOTHERS accounted for about 5 percent of births in the United States. Now they are having almost 40 percent of the country's babies. About half of these women are on their own, and the other half are living with a man at the time of the birth, according to Pamela Smock, a sociology professor at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. The stock characters of the explosion of out-of-wedlock births are feckless fathers and hapless young mothers. It's true that most unmarried mothers are still in their 20s -- and less often in their teens -- and have no more than a high-school education. But as television's Murphy Brown predicted in the 1990s, an increasing number of unmarried mothers look a lot more like Fran McElhill and Nancy Clark -- they are college-educated, and they are in their 30s, 40s and 50s. 
 According to data compiled by Lucie Schmidt, an economist at Williams College, the birthrate for unmarried college-educated women has climbed 145 percent since 1980, compared with a 60 percent increase in the birthrate for non-college-educated unmarried women. The number of first births for unmarried college-educated women reached a high of 47,000 in 2005, the last year for which numbers are available, compared with about 670,000 first births to non-college-graduates. ''Even though the absolute numbers are small, what's striking is how fast the birthrate to the college-educated group has increased,'' Schmidt says. Unmarried women also adopt thousands of children every year -- about 13,000 from the U.S. child-welfare system, as well as thousands of private and international adoptions whose numbers aren't tracked well. 
 Unmarried college-educated mothers tend to be older: close to 40 percent of them give birth for the first time after age 30, compared with only about 8 percent overall. Many of these women followed a similar and familiar pattern in having their first child: they planned to marry, found they hadn't by their 30s, looked some more and then decided to have a child without a husband.
 What's less familiar is what these women do next. Increasingly, instead of giving their children a father, they give them a sibling. Schmidt's data show that second births to unmarried college-educated women have risen even more rapidly than first births -- nearly sevenfold since 1980. For Fran and her friends, a second child, not a husband, becomes the path to normalcy. ''This is exactly the difference between my generation of single mothers and the current one,'' says Jane Mattes, who founded the national organization Single Mothers by Choice after her son, Eric, was born in 1980. Mattes has written of her own regret about not having had a second child. ''It seemed to me such an amazing, daring thing to try to pull off, I never seriously considered it,'' she says. ''Now these women are saying, Why not? Why shouldn't I have the family I always wanted?''
 For some single mothers by choice, that family eventually includes a boyfriend or two, if not a committed life partner. But many find that raising two children takes them out of the dating scene, and not just for their children's toddler years. They don't have the energy to meet men, or the opportunity. And they don't necessarily need the second income a mate could bring; many middle-class single mothers by choice plan ahead financially. Having a child can push women with high-school educations or less into poverty; having a second child increases that risk. But the same risks don't apply to most college-educated unmarried mothers, according to Child Trends, a research center. 
 Some single mothers like Fran forgo romantic and sexual relationships for extended stretches, turning to one another for the help and companionship that spouses normally provide -- filling up one another's cellphone directories, thinking through whether to get speech therapy for a child who is talking late, snapping and sharing summer photos. They are friends, and also more than friends. The trips to the Outer Banks that Fran's group takes represent a step toward an all-female, platonic, chosen extended family. 
 At the same time, it's the kind of safe step that won't raise eyebrows in a suburb like Moorestown, where almost all the kids at MeiLin and Lili's schools come from two-parent families. Mostly, Fran blends in. She grew up in blue-collar Chester County, Pa., outside Philadelphia, and talks like a local girl (long O's). Her father was a World War II vet who worked for a union and took his kids to Mass most Sundays. Fran married her college boyfriend -- she studied political science at St. Joseph's University -- while they were both in law school. After they graduated, she and her husband each got a job at a big Philadelphia firm. They drove BMWs and flew to Florida in the spring to watch the Phillies' spring training. They planned to have kids; they just couldn't; and then their marriage of 11 years fell apart. 
 In 2000, when MeiLin was a toddler and Fran got an award for serving as chairwoman of the local branch of Catholic Charities, her pastor at the time, who was also being honored, chose the occasion to rail against single mothers from the lectern. A generation back, when the first single mothers by choice started having kids in noticeable numbers, that sort of barb had real bite. Dan Quayle lambasted Murphy Brown 17 years ago for being a bad role model, and his message about irresponsibility resonated. For a woman of means to have a baby without a husband seemed to threaten the institution of marriage and, with it, family stability. 
 Today's single mothers by choice often do their utmost to prove that they're not a threat to anyone's social order, as Rosanna Hertz, a Wellesley College sociologist, points out in her study of 65 such women, ''Single by Chance, Mothers by Choice.'' After the award ceremony, Fran didn't talk back to her pastor. For her, being a single mom isn't a form of rebellion. She wants to share in middle-class norms, not challenge them. To spend time with Fran and her friend Nancy is to appreciate them as a couple of anti-bohemians: two middle-aged women in high-waisted jeans and tennis shoes, sitting and talking on folding chairs while soft rock and a mix of sweat and Lysol fills the air during their daughters' Saturday-morning gymnastics class.
 AFTER GYMNASTICS ON SATURDAYS, Fran and Nancy often meet Susan and Lynne for lunch at a local Chick-fil-A, chosen for its indoor playscape. On the day I went along, MeiLin and Lili started hollering as we pulled into the parking lot, jumping out of the minivan to wave to Susan and Lynne's daughters, who were lined up on the other side of the restaurant's tall glass window. Fran followed MeiLin and Lili inside more slowly. At the Outer Banks several summers ago, when MeiLin was 4, Fran slipped on the way out of the house the group was renting and fractured both her legs. Because she didn't want to be off her feet entirely, Fran decided to have only one of her legs placed in a cast so she could walk on the other one. She still limps, in need of a knee replacement. She's uncomplaining about the experience -- at the time, she didn't feel she had a choice. Who would have taken care of MeiLin while she was laid up for weeks?
 Inside the Chick-fil-A, the mothers settled the girls down with fried chicken strips and French fries. Then the women sat in their own booth, back to back to the kids, except for Susan's 2-year-old, who was next to her mother in a high chair. The older ones helped the younger ones open ketchup packets and find straws and napkins. When they finished eating, Hannah, Susan's 9-year-old, came over to ask for ice cream money and then went with Megan, Lynne's 10-year-old, to stand in line for all the kids. 
 The mothers are frank about their expectations for their daughters. The older sisters know they're supposed to help the younger ones, within and across families. The women are united around this ethic. Because all the girls are adopted, the families share the questions that come with that too. This summer, Fran and Nancy will take their daughters to China to visit the towns the girls came from. 
 The mothers also have one another's backs day to day. Nancy gets home from work by 4:30 and can pick up other kids from after-school care in a pinch. Fran has the day off on Friday and is on deck if a child is sick. ''You have everyone on a speed-dial list, and you know who to call for what,'' she says. 
 The women agree that they are one another's primary asset. ''If I had a great job opportunity somewhere else, I wouldn't move now,'' Fran says, to nods from around the table. ''If I went somewhere else, I'd have to reform what we have here, and I don't know if I could.''
 The girls had left the table, and so I asked their mothers about dating and men. Fran had told me that when she started talking about having a second child, her father opposed the idea ''because in his mind, this was, well, now no one will marry you.'' He loved MeiLin. But he raised Fran and her three younger siblings by himself after their mother died when Fran was 8, and he didn't want his oldest daughter to be alone too. 
 In the years since, Fran has decided for herself that her father's prediction was right: in the foreseeable future, she is not going to marry, or even look for a boyfriend. ''We have serial lives,'' she says. ''The next 8 to 10 years is my time for child-rearing. I'd like to keep that protected.'' As she sees it, her family is complete now. And so she is living side by side with her friends in a kind of monastic motherhood. 
 When I asked about men at the Chick-fil-A, there was a collective snort of laughter and a beat of pink-cheeked silence. Then Susan echoed what Fran told me earlier: ''It's just not part of our lives. What's important is raising our children.''
 The group got quiet again, and then Fran volunteered, ''Sometimes we talk about men from before we had kids.'' Susan grimaced. ''You mean all the deadbeats?'' she asked. No one picked up her cue, though, and later Fran assured me that when she talks with her daughters about her own marriage, she stresses the better moments. If her girls can't see a good marriage or a romantic partnership in action every day, she wants them to be able to imagine one.
 Other single mothers don't slam the door on dating. They just let it shut of its own accord. One woman I talked to, Eileen Fishman, is 44 and has two daughters, 5 years and 23 months (one conceived with a donor, the second adopted from Guatemala). She is a C.P.A. and an organizational consultant in Atlanta; in her off time, she advocates for state services for her younger daughter, who was late to walk and talk. Eileen is ''a multi-tasking addict,'' as she put it when I heard water running while we were talking on the phone and asked if she was doing the dishes. 
 Even with all the juggling, Eileen seems like the kind of person who would want a partner. During her late 20s and early 30s, she was in a six-year relationship. After that man met someone else, and he and Eileen tried to make a clean break, he joked that he could still father her children (via ''the miracles of modern medicine''). ''God, no!'' she says now. Still, she chose a sperm donor who shared some of her ex's characteristics, and she's wistful, for both her girls and herself. ''As the mother of two, I wish there was a dad,'' she says. 
 Last year, Eileen put an ad on Craig's List, describing herself as a professional with two small children and saying that she was looking for a life partner. ''It was a whim, like going out for ice cream,'' she says. Many of the responses came from prisoners. Eileen concluded that posting on Craig's List isn't the way to meet men and settled back into the companionship of family members who live nearby and of another single mother, Tammy, whose daughters play well with her daughters. The women have different parenting styles (Eileen is stricter, Tammy more relaxed about discipline) and different politics (Eileen voted for Obama, Tammy for McCain). But they also have an easy routine. ''She calls at 6, and I'll bring my kids over in their pajamas, or they'll all take a bath together,'' Eileen says. ''It's like what I'd do if my sister who has kids lived here.''
 Eileen isn't sure when she might try to date again. ''I have actually asked myself, when is a good time?'' she says. ''When my younger daughter is in grammar school? Later? You know how when you're single, if you meet someone, you ask yourself, Could I be with this person, not sexually, but in general? I don't make those mental notes. I've gotten to a place where I don't have somebody, and I'm not looking.''
 There are indications that in choosing platonic intimacy with female friends over the romantic version with male ones, Fran in New Jersey and Eileen in Atlanta may be making the better bet for their children. Sara McLanahan, a sociologist at Princeton, has been studying the effects of divorce and single parenting on kids since the 1980s. Fundamentally, her work reveals the risks of instability. The biggest reason that children born to unmarried mothers tend to have problems -- they're more likely to drop out of school and commit crimes -- is that they tend to grow up poor. Children of divorce may also experience a drop in income, and their mothers are at a heightened risk for depression, which in turn raises the risk of mental-health troubles for the kids. 
 No one has shown, however, that there are similar risks for the children of college-educated single mothers by choice. In research that's not yet published, McLanahan has found that college-educated single mothers generally experience less instability and stress related to men than other single mothers. But at the same time, when college-educated mothers do have relationships with men that prove unstable, she says, their children experience a greater drop than the children of less-educated women in ''literacy activities'' -- playing games and reading books with their mothers. ''This is partly because the educated moms normally do a lot of these activities,'' McLanahan says. ''Now they're doing a lot less. When they're in the relationship, that's a competing activity. Then if it breaks up, they are sad and distracted.'' 
 In other words, breakups can function like mini-divorces. Some single mothers intuit the risk. Since the mid-1990s, in England, Susan Golombok of the Centre for Family Research at the University of Cambridge has been conducting a longitudinal study of middle-class single mothers. She is comparing the children of 38 two-parent heterosexual couples with those of 25 lesbian couples and 38 single mothers. Most of the mothers have a university degree and a professional or managerial job.
 When the children turned 12, Golombok measured their emotional and behavioral development, school adjustment, peer relationships and self-esteem and found no differences among the groups. That held true in the latest round of interviews with the kids, who are now 18. The major new finding from the data is that the majority of the mothers have remained single over the course of the study. And deliberately so. ''Qualitatively, what was quite striking to me was that it was very rare for the mothers to engage in or pursue any relationship,'' Shirlene Badger, Golombok's co-investigator, wrote in an e-mail message. ''In fact, many of the mothers talked about purposefully not pursuing any relationship for the sake of their child.''
 Curious about how the same questions play out in the United States, Golombok and Badger and a colleague surveyed 330 self-identified ''choice moms'' who signed up through a Web site run by Mikki Morrissette, author of the book ''Choosing Single Motherhood.'' The vast majority (86 percent) had a college degree or higher. Ninety-one percent of the mothers said they were not in a relationship. Almost 30 percent of that group said that was a conscious choice. 
 Does having a second child make middle-class single mothers more likely to swear off dating? Given the demands of parenthood, that might seem almost inevitable, at least for a time. Two kids means more sleepless nights, more years spent in the routine of school carpool, sports and Girl Scouts, where single men don't abound. ''To be honest, if I wanted to be looking, I'd have to dress differently,'' Eileen Fishman says. ''I go out with my kids in the morning in sweat pants and a T-shirt and with my hair up.'' Fran said that after she adopted Lili, her father's warning that she'd taken herself out of the marriage market ''just came to seem like the natural evolution.'' 
 A FEW WEEKS AFTER talking to Fran and her friends at the Chick-fil-A, I took the train to Princeton for lunch with another group of single mothers. None of them were dating, either. But they objected to the idea that there was a relationship between having a second child and being alone. ''I've been chewing over that question, and to tell the truth I'm incensed by it,'' said Anne-Marie, whose talkative and frisky boys, who are 6 and 4, were conceived with sperm donors. Anne-Marie, who asked that I not use her last name to protect her privacy, had been laughing, but now she leaned forward. ''The idea that by having a second child, you make yourself less datable -- honestly, that never crossed my mind. I don't find the two things to be connected.'' 
 Anne-Marie runs a local single-mothers group, and she invited two other single mothers, Susanna and Carole, when I asked to meet some of her friends. Carole (her middle name) was on her lunch break from a marketing job. She darted me a wary look. ''There's always the assumption that there's a gap,'' she said. ''That you want to be dating, and you're not because of your kids.''
 ''It comes up all the time in online discussions,'' Anne-Marie continued, referring to list-serve Q. and A.'s about the consequences of having a second child. ''But I just don't feel like I have this hole.'' Then she gave a throaty chuckle. ''Then again, maybe I've forgotten what I'm missing. I haven't been on a date since [her older son] was born.'' 
 Carole turned to Susanna, an artist whose kids are the same ages as Anne-Marie's. ''You were making a big effort to go out last spring, weren't you?'' 
 ''Yeah, I was online for a while,'' Susanna said. ''I was really trying. But you know, it's a lot of work. You have to get yourself out the door, pay for a baby sitter, and then you come home tired.''
 Carole tucked a piece of long red hair behind her ear. ''It's a constant job interview,'' she said. 
 Anne-Marie did make a big change in her life when her first son was born: she moved from Boston back to Princeton, her hometown, and bought a white Victorian a few blocks away from the house where she grew up and where her parents still live. When Anne-Marie drives her sons to school, she passes the river where she caught her first largemouth bass. This wasn't where she intended to end up. But when her older son was 9 months old, she realized that she needed her parents. They travel for part of the year, but when they are home, they're the adults Anne-Marie spends the most time with. ''When I feel like I need adult companionship, I take the boys and spend the night,'' she says. She also has an au pair who takes care of the children after school while Anne-Marie runs the medical-device business she owns. Carole is even more intertwined with her parents; she shares a duplex with them. Her parents pick up her 8-year-old from school most days and help cook dinner and manage feedings for her 20-month-old toddler, whom she adopted in October.
 It's a strategy different from Fran and Eileen's. But there's a common thread; these women, too, have the autonomy to raise their kids the way they want to. Their primary relationships with adults support them without interfering with them as parents. (At least, for the most part -- once in a while, Carole says, she has to remind her father not to correct her older daughter's table manners because ''that's not his job. It's mine.'') 
 All the single mothers I met talked about the satisfaction of being able to make decisions about their kids, from when they are excused from the table to where they go to school, and how hard it would be to share that authority. Though they acknowledged some of the advantages of marriage, they mainly saw it, at this point in their lives, as an entry into constant and mostly unwelcome negotiation over all of this terrain.
 In treating co-parenting as the alien and potentially harder state, Anne-Marie and her friends say they are different from the divorced women they know. ''I have a few friends who are divorced, and they are more interested in getting married than I am,'' Anne-Marie said. ''For them, it's going back to the couple's life they've known. For me, it seems like adding on a big mess to something that's comparatively stable.''
 On the way to lunch, Anne-Marie and I circled the parking lot of a strip mall looking for the right restaurant. When I suggested stopping to ask for directions, she turned around her light green VW Passat for another tour of the lot. ''Independence, it's my blessing and my curse,'' she joked. Now she tilted her head, imagined being married and said: ''I'd have to give up my independence. I don't always want to admit it, but that's a lot of what's stopping me.''
 SOONER OR LATER, most women who decide not to look for a father for their children confront a question: How are their kids going to learn about men and masculinity? Are they missing out in some fundamental way? 
 In their survey of American single-by-choice moms, Susan Golombok and Shirlene Badger found that almost 60 percent thought that it was very important for their children to have a male role model and 38 percent thought it was moderately important. But finding men for the job can be difficult. In her book ''Raising Boys Without Men,'' Peggy Drexler, a psychologist, writes that ''single moms by choice are on the desperate lookout for male role models for their sons.'' 
 Drexler insists that much of the anxiety about finding a father substitute is misplaced. ''Good fathering, like good mothering, may be no more important than simply good parenting,'' she writes, pointing out that lesbian couples contend with the same issues and that several studies have confirmed that their kids fare no worse than other children. 
 But much of the literature on single motherhood and lesbian co-parenting emphasizes that it's crucial for children to have the regular presence of a man in their lives. In his book ''Fatherneed,'' Kyle Pruett, a clinical professor of child psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine, argues that ''it's practically impossible'' for a mother by herself to provide the kind of care men give kids. According to the research Pruett cites, men tend to spend more time playing with children in a way that encourages exploration -- they use fewer toys as props and offer more pure entertainment. Women on the other hand typically tend to emphasize instruction and self-control more and spend more time taking care of kids' physical needs. ''To have loving, trusting, challenging, teasing relationships with adults of both genders is a way of fleshing out, quite literally, the whole person you can become,'' Pruett says.
 If dating seems like the wrong way to incorporate a man into their families, single mothers seek other openings. Fran ticked off a list for me. There is her brother, who visits monthly. There is a male neighbor who throws the girls into his leaf pile. The baby sitter's husband taught Lili how to ride a bike without training wheels. And the husband of the one married couple in Fran's circle plays with the girls. Still, Fran frets that her older daughter has a deeper need that's going unmet. As she moves toward adolescence, she sometimes treats men as unusual and too-fascinating creatures. About the helpful men on her list, Fran said: ''They aren't in our lives in the same way a father would be. But this is the best I can do. And my children don't worry, Will Mommy get married, will he love us, does he like us, will he want to stay?''
 BEFORE HE DIED, Fran's father came around to the idea that she wanted a second child. He told his daughter that as he thought about his own aging and passing, it gave him a sense of peace to think of the relationships among Fran and her brothers and sister. If she had two children, they would also have each other, when someday they faced a similar moment. ''Before dad died, he told me he'd thought long and hard about it, and he'd decided it was the best thing for MeiLin to have a sister, especially after I go.''
 There's a more immediate advantage too. Siblings can turn a family into a sturdier, three-legged stool. Along with a sense of normalcy, they can diffuse the intensity of the one-on-one mother-child bond, a prospect some single mothers welcome. ''Being a single mother with a single child -- for me personally, it seems oppressive for the child,'' Anne-Marie says. ''All the expectations are on one child, and that just feels so heavy. So I had a second child partly to improve the dynamics of the family as we age together.'' 
 To watch MeiLin and Lili together is to see the elements of the ordinary that the single mothers I talked to wanted for their families. At lunch, the girls ate each other's French fries without asking (just as they'd borrowed each other's hairbrushes). Afterward, on the way from the Chick-fil-A to a swim meet, they scrapped over which CD to play in the minivan. Then inside, Fran and I sat on the bleachers while Lili stood at the guardrail, watching MeiLin swim backstroke, crookedly but with determination. When her sister pulled herself out of the pool, Lili bounced on the toes of her pink Crocs. ''Do you know how many laps she swam, Mom?'' she said. ''Did you count? Can we ask?'' It was the kind of moment parents savor -- one sibling curious about the other. ''Let's go find out,'' Fran said. They reached the side of the pool, and Lili hopped around, twirling MeiLin's goggles, while her mother helped towel off her sister. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOTHER-DAUGHTER HOUSE: MEILIN AND FRAN MCELHILL (FIRST AND SECOND FROM LEFT) WITH OTHER MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLIAN LAUB)(MM30 and MM31)
STRENGTH IN (FEMALE) NUMBERS: SUSAN BACSO, FRAN MCELHILL, NANCY CLARK AND LYNNE ROSE (CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT) WITH THEIR DAUGHTERS.
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLIAN LAUB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (76%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (87%); CHINA (85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



54 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths CAPOZZA, CATALDO

 BODY:
CAPOZZA--Cataldo, (65), of Naples, FL and Yarmouth, ME, died at his Naples home on December 28, 2008, following a courageous three year battle with cancer. An original member and shareholder of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Capozza was a strong advocate for modernization and members' rights. 
In the year 2000, he worked with Chairman Rappaport to establish the Exchange's first electronic trading system. Subsequently, he fought hard to protect members' equity rights as the Exchange made the transition into the era of electronic trading, undertook an IPO, and was ultimately sold to the Chicago Mercantile Ex change. The son of Italian immigrants, Capozza grew up in Tarrytown, NY where his father, Frank, established Frank's Fuel Company, and where his mother, Anna, kept the company books. Young Cataldo drove one of the company's fuel delivery trucks throughout the NY area often having to battle his way down the streets in some of the rougher neighborhoods. He later attended NYU where he earned a degree in economics and business. It was, perhaps, this blend of energies that enabled him to fight for ''a level playing field'' in his dual careers as a real estate entrepreneur and as a commodities trader. When asked by his brother Joe how he wanted to be remembered in this life, Capozza replied: ''As a warrior for all those who in fairness and integrity-pursue the American Dream.'' He is survived by his beloved wife, Suzanne; his sons Seth and Brad; his brother Joe; eight cherished nieces and nephews; and three grandchildren: Christian, Leeann and John. Memorial gifts: The American Cancer Society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



55 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WALDORF, GERALDINE P.

 BODY:
WALDORF--Geraldine P.,of Suffern, NY, age 67, passed away peacefully January 28 surrounded by family at home after a brave battle with cancer. Cherished daughter of Pauline and the late Marcel Polack, wife of Donald, mother of Heidi, Lawrence and Mel, grandmother of Natasha Waldorf, sister of Lawrence Pollack. Ms. Waldorf had her own law practice in Rockland County, New York. 
She co-authored, and for 15 years prepared annual supplements for, the two volume New York Practice Guide: Probate and Estate Administration. Ms. Waldorf started her legal career at Kelley Drye & Warren and was also Special Counsel to Davidson, Dawson & Clark, both in New York City. She was a Fellow of The New York Bar Foundation. Ms. Waldorf received her law degree from Columbia University School of Law, where she was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, and a Master of Law in Taxation from New York University School of Law. She earned her undergraduate degree at Vassar College, where she did research on urban renewal under a Ford Foundation grant and graduated with honors in economics. She received a Master's degree in political science from Sarah Lawrence College. Ms. Waldorf gave her time to numerous not-for-profit endeavors. She was Founding Chairman of Friends of Georgetown University Center for Child and Human Development, prior to the founding of which she served on the Center's Advisory Committee. In 2005, she was honored as Georgetown Pediatrics Volunteer of the Year. Ms. Waldorf also served on the Women's Leadership Board and Chaired the Program Committee. Starting in 1999, Ms. Waldorf served on the Advisory Council of the Women Presidents' Organization. Starting in 1971, she served the American Cancer Society, Rockland County Unit, in various capacities including Chair of the Special Gifts Committee, Chair of the Public Information Committee and member of the Executive Committee; she initiated and developed the ''Giving Wall/Living Wall'', the Unit's highest revenue raising project. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to: The Geraldine P. Waldorf Fund, Georgetown University Center for Child & Human Development, c/o Donna Deardorff, Center for Child & Human Development, 3300 Whitehaven Street NW, Suite 3300, Box 571485, Washington, DC 20057, to support the work of the Center for vulnerable children having-or at risk for developinglearning, emotional or developmental difficulties. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); CANCER (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); PROBATE (75%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TAX LAW (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP (84%); DAVIDSON DAWSON & CLARK LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



56 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Roadblocks for Home Buyers

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
MORTGAGE rates have dipped to their lowest levels in decades, but getting a mortgage in New York City these days often has less to do with buyers' finances and more to do with circumstances beyond their control.
 Even if a prospective buyer has impeccable credit and reliable income, many banks are refusing to make loans if they don't like what they find when they review the finances and bylaws of the building where the purchaser hopes to live.
 Among the matters under scrutiny: the dollar amount and type of insurance a building has; the size of the building; the size of the apartment; and, in the case of new developments, the number of apartments sold and closed.
 Mortgage brokers, real estate lawyers and agents say that the roadblocks some banks have thrown up seem almost arbitrary. ''Banks are asking questions that I've never heard anybody ask before,'' said Roberta Axelrod, the director of residential sales and rentals at Time Equities, a real estate developer and landlord. ''They're looking in much more detail into specific aspects of the buildings.'' 
 Mortgage brokers say that bank requirements seem to change week to week and vary greatly from bank to bank. Many of the banks are responding to directives from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored agencies that resell packages of loans to investors. Most of the requirements have been on the agencies' books for years, but the credit crisis has prompted them to adhere to them much more rigorously than in the years when the real estate market was booming. 
 ''It's gotten torturous,'' said Norman Calvo, the president of Universal Mortgage, a broker with offices in Manhattan and Brooklyn. ''It's still possible to get a mortgage, but the documentation required now is monumental because the questionnaires and insurance documents needed have to come not just from the purchaser but from the building, too.''
 Mr. Calvo said he recently spent hours on the phone on behalf of a prospective buyer in an eight-unit building in Brooklyn, pleading with a major bank to ease off on its demand that the building be insured for a replacement cost of up to $2 million in the event of a boiler explosion.
 ''The whole building was only worth $796,000 and the boiler only cost $5,000 to replace, so the insurance company told us it was impossible to get that kind of replacement coverage,'' he said. ''But the bank wouldn't budge.''
 Smaller regional banks tend to be more forgiving because they are more familiar with the local market, mortgage brokers said, but they often cannot provide deals as attractive as those offered by larger national lending institutions.
 While mortgage brokers can help buyers wade through the guidelines, buyers may be better off in some cases going directly to banks. Many large banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Bank of America, are for the most part no longer offering loans through mortgage brokers, preferring to have borrowers work directly with their own loan officers.
 Banks of all sizes are now carefully reviewing the insurance policies that co-ops and condominiums hold, specifically to see whether a building has fidelity bonding, which is insurance against theft by property managers or by the building's board of directors; whether its insurance has an A rating; and, if a building is in a flood zone, whether it has adequate protection. 
 The standards set by banks often put smaller buildings at a disadvantage. Many of them, for example, do not have fidelity bonding or may have insurance rated A-minus or even lower. (The ratings refer to an insurer's ability to meet its obligations to policyholders.)
 Avi Fisher, who recently sold his co-op in downtown Brooklyn, said he went through a few weeks of nail-biting uncertainty when his buyers informed him that their bank would not close on their mortgage because the 20-unit building had insurance rated only A-minus. ''I talked to our property manager and he said this was going to cause a wave of problems all over New York because most buildings have A-minus insurance,'' he said. 
 The buyers went searching for a bank that would make the loan despite the insurance rating and eventually found one, Mr. Fisher said. ''I think they wound up going to the bank that owns the underlying mortgage on the building itself, so it worked out,'' he said. 
 In neighborhoods like Battery Park City, which is in a flood zone, banks are now demanding very high levels of flood insurance. 
 Luigi Rosabianca, the principal of Rosabianca & Associates, a real estate law firm that does much of its business in Battery Park City, said that as a result, many buyers are finding that they have to add flood insurance to their homeowners' insurance even if they're buying an apartment on a high floor. 
 ''The banks are concerned about buildings' not having enough insurance for full replacement if there is a flood,'' he said. ''In the past, you always had a difficult bank now and then, but you didn't have all the banks being difficult.'' 
 Depending on how much coverage a bank requires, the additional insurance might cost a one-bedroom buyer about $2,000 to $2,500 more a year, according to Mr. Rosabianca.
 Buyers in smaller buildings are also finding it very difficult to get loans or to refinance their mortgages. ''If you have a co-op of less than five units, nobody wants to touch it,'' said Mr. Calvo, whose Brooklyn office works with many brownstones of four units or fewer. He said some banks would agree to refinance a mortgage if they already held the mortgage.
 For new loans, he said, his office has to do much more research to make a deal happen. Because most banks will agree to do only one loan in such a small building, his loan officers have to get mortgage information from every other homeowner in the building and then find a lender that has no loans there but is willing to work with a small building.
 Banks unfamiliar with the New York City market often set guidelines that don't apply. Ms. Axelrod of Time Equities said she had seen banks reject loan applications because they didn't want to give mortgages to people in walk-ups, to apartments under 500 square feet or to buildings that don't have parking. 
 ''They think walk-ups are substandard housing, and they don't realize that 500 square feet is actually a nice-sized studio in Manhattan,'' she said. ''And as far as parking -- well, hello -- we have to explain to them that most existing construction in the city doesn't have parking and people are perfectly willing to buy in these buildings.''
 In fact, many of the guidelines are designed to deal with problems that have arisen in the national marketplace, problems that the city has managed to avoid, said Melissa Cohn, the president of Manhattan Mortgage. ''New York City is a big exception,'' she said, ''and the fact that we're put under a national umbrella is certainly hurting our marketplace.'' 
 For new construction, some banks will now make loans only if the building is at least 70 percent sold or 51 percent occupied. These standards make it very difficult for developments that are being sold before construction is finished. Ms. Cohn said some banks were willing to give waivers, but ''a lot of the buildings that are still under construction are going to have trouble.''
 Shaun Osher, the chief executive of Core Group Marketing, which represents many new developments, estimated that 90 percent of the dozens of projects that were being considered but not started have probably been shelved and that many of developments in midconstruction have also been put on hold.
 ''The developers can't get construction loans because the buyers can't get mortgages,'' he said. ''Everything is connected.''
 As a result, many developers are looking for ways to self-finance by offering mortgages directly to prospective buyers.
 Ms. Cohn held out some limited hope. ''Everything changes on a day-to-day basis,'' she said. ''But I think it's going to get worse before it gets better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'TORTUROUS': Norman Calvo, the president of Universal Mortgage, says banks are now requiring documentation from buildings as well as home buyers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); INTEREST RATES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSURANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



57 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Obama's People

 BODY:
Bravo for your magnificent portfolio of ''Obama's People'' (Jan. 18). While some may find the photographs stark, I found the sharp, unembellished, unpretentious photographs of Obama's team representative of what I believe America is hoping the Obama administration will bring to government: frankness, honesty, genuineness -- what you see is what you get. Kudos to Nadav Kander.
 DORIAN DE WIND Austin, Tex.
 Nadav Kander's images aren't striking so much for the ethnic, color or gender variances as for their reflections of the country's collective mood. Whether it's Nancy Pelosi's amazed glee, Eugene Kang's serious but sunny scholarship or Lawrence H. Summers's dour, almost reluctant assessment of the lens (and perhaps the national economy), the pages express the many emotions raging throughout America in the days before President Obama's inauguration. While I, like most Americans, am filled with fear over reports of unemployment, business failures and the deepening recession, I also experience exuberance and a sense that I am witnessing the kind of inimitable history that not only rivals but also possibly surpasses the inaugurations of F.D.R., J.F.K. and Abraham Lincoln. 
 WAYNE TRUJILLO Denver
 I cannot thank you enough for the wonderful pictures of the people surrounding our president. Through many, many administrations, it has been difficult to know who is advising -- and in some cases actually running -- our chief executive. At least this way, we will have a look at who the new advisers are and an idea of their backgrounds. I have to confess that I was leery of Obama's candidacy because I had no idea whom he knew or the depths of his intelligence. I now am so thrilled he was elected and by the choices of the men and women made to help him.
 POLLY PHILLIPS Evergreen, Colo.
 ''Obama's People'' unfolds like a brilliant case study in assembling a stellar team -- and it leads you to think that Sarah Palin could not have held her own with any one of them. What were the Republicans thinking?
 SUSAN TOLAND San Francisco
 What a fabulous idea to introduce us to ''Obama's People'' in such a fashion. While I was quite impressed with their credentials, I was equally struck by the unnaturalness and stiffness of the people in many of the photos. Half looked to be mug shots of serial killers and the remainder appeared to be wax replicants from Madame Tussauds. It would have been nice to see them a little more natural and comfortable in their own skin.
 BETH RYAN Wayzata, Minn.
 Alfred Eisenstaedt once said that ''it is more important to click with people than to click the shutter.'' I hoped that your ''Obama's People'' portfolio might reveal something about the people, putting them before the camera and trying to capture a glint of their personalities, but the portraits disappoint because the photographer seemed more interested in his photography than in his subjects. Perhaps he tried for the ''art'' he has on display in the National Portrait Gallery of Britain.
 Your getting all these high-profile people to appear for portraits was a coup, something akin to herding cats. We are left to wonder how a different photographer might have handled such a great opportunity.
 All Kander's portraits have what the professional photographers dismiss as the ''put 'em up against the wall and shoot 'em'' look. The photos have a dreary sameness.
 GARY HAYNES Oregon, Ill. (The author was a national picture editor at The Times.)
 Matt Bai's essay (''The Edge of the Mystery,'' Jan. 18) on the aura of our anticipation of the president-to-be reminds me of our media buildup of the upcoming Super Bowl. We all get excited about it, and after one quarter, we all start to lose interest in a dull and boring game. I hope this doesn't hold true with Obama's presidency. He has indeed shown us that he can command our attention with his ideas and rhetoric. His intentions are for change. Alas, this has been said before. At this time, our country needs this to come to reality. We do need a modernized version of F.D.R.'s New Deal. Indeed, we are at the ''edge of the mystery.'' We see that President Obama can talk the talk. What we all need is that he walks the walk.
 RICHARD C. GESCHKE Bristol, Conn.
 I can't help thinking that the photographer was in on a cruel joke. He seemed to use the most unflattering backdrops, lighting and poses to showcase his subjects. I am sure they are all brilliant, talented individuals who will serve this country well. But it was interesting to see that some of the men were disheveled or slightly rumpled or had awful taste in ties, totally unlike their new leader, who is always impeccably turned out.
 ANGELA TANTILLO Glen Ridge, N.J.
 I found it interesting that you have pictured in The Times Magazine President Obama's cabinet with the citation ''Obama's People.'' Obama's people are the Palestinian high-school student from Taos, N.M., the retired black professional, the ex-chemistry professor from Illinois, the Hispanic housewife, the volunteer from Taos Pueblo, N.M., the ex-legislative professional from Texas, the ex-hippie from Hondo, Tex., the retired university librarian from Texas, the Mexican illegal who can't vote but will volunteer, Vietnam-veteran volunteers, the extremely shy high-school student who could barely talk to people but continued to work for Obama's election, the real estate agent who lost her job but dedicated her days and nights to coordinating the office volunteers in Taos and all of the hundreds of people who worked 24/7 to get Obama elected president.
 These are Obama's people.
 GARY GRIEF Taos, N.M.
 I just finished reading the ''Obama's People'' issue and was moved to tears. Matt Bai's opening piece coupled with Nadav Kander's portraits gave me a true indication that this is the beginning of a new age in politics and in America.
 I was a freshman in college on 9/11, and over the last eight years watched the country I was so proud to grow up in spiral downward. The election of Barack Obama almost felt like a dream -- until now. I have a new sense of hope that this is a time of change we truly can believe in and that once again I can say proudly that I am an American.
 GABRIELLE I. CARLIN Astoria, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NADAV KANDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); MURDER (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); SARAH PALIN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



58 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 7841 words

HEADLINE: The Big Fix

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
I. WHITHER GROWTH? 
 The economy will recover. It won't recover anytime soon. It is likely to get significantly worse over the course of 2009, no matter what President Obama and Congress do. And resolving the financial crisis will require both aggressiveness and creativity. In fact, the main lesson from other crises of the past century is that governments tend to err on the side of too much caution -- of taking the punch bowl away before the party has truly started up again. ''The mistake the United States made during the Depression and the Japanese made during the '90s was too much start-stop in their policies,'' said Timothy Geithner, Obama's choice for Treasury secretary, when I went to visit him in his transition office a few weeks ago. Japan announced stimulus measures even as it was cutting other government spending. Franklin Roosevelt flirted with fiscal discipline midway through the New Deal, and the country slipped back into decline. 
 Geithner arguably made a similar miscalculation himself last year as a top Federal Reserve official who was part of a team that allowed Lehman Brothers to fail. But he insisted that the Obama administration had learned history's lesson. ''We're just not going to make that mistake,'' Geithner said. ''We're not going to do that. We'll keep at it until it's done, whatever it takes.''
 Once governments finally decide to use the enormous resources at their disposal, they have typically been able to shock an economy back to life. They can put to work the people, money and equipment sitting idle, until the private sector is willing to begin using them again. The prescription developed almost a century ago by John Maynard Keynes does appear to work. 
 But while Washington has been preoccupied with stimulus and bailouts, another, equally important issue has received far less attention -- and the resolution of it is far more uncertain. What will happen once the paddles have been applied and the economy's heart starts beating again? How should the new American economy be remade? Above all, how fast will it grow?
 That last question may sound abstract, even technical, compared with the current crisis. Yet the consequences of a country's growth rate are not abstract at all. Slow growth makes almost all problems worse. Fast growth helps solve them. As Paul Romer, an economist at Stanford University, has said, the choices that determine a country's growth rate ''dwarf all other economic-policy concerns.''
 Growth is the only way for a government to pay off its debts in a relatively quick and painless fashion, allowing tax revenues to increase without tax rates having to rise. That is essentially what happened in the years after World War II. When the war ended, the federal government's debt equaled 120 percent of the gross domestic product (more than twice as high as its likely level by the end of next year). The rapid economic growth of the 1950s and '60s -- more than 4 percent a year, compared with 2.5 percent in this decade -- quickly whittled that debt away. Over the coming 25 years, if growth could be lifted by just one-tenth of a percentage point a year, the extra tax revenue would completely pay for an $800 billion stimulus package.
 Yet there are real concerns that the United States' economy won't grow enough to pay off its debts easily and ensure rising living standards, as happened in the postwar decades. The fraternity of growth experts in the economics profession predicts that the economy, on its current path, will grow more slowly in the next couple of decades than over the past couple. They are concerned in part because two of the economy's most powerful recent engines have been exposed as a mirage: the explosion in consumer debt and spending, which lifted short-term growth at the expense of future growth, and the great Wall Street boom, which depended partly on activities that had very little real value. 
 Richard Freeman, a Harvard economist, argues that our bubble economy had something in common with the old Soviet economy. The Soviet Union's growth was artificially raised by massive industrial output that ended up having little use. Ours was artificially raised by mortgage-backed securities, collateralized debt obligations and even the occasional Ponzi scheme.
 Where will new, real sources of growth come from? Wall Street is not likely to cure the nation's economic problems. Neither, obviously, is Detroit. Nor is Silicon Valley, at least not by itself. Well before the housing bubble burst, the big productivity gains brought about by the 1990s technology boom seemed to be petering out, which suggests that the Internet may not be able to fuel decades of economic growth in the way that the industrial inventions of the early 20th century did. Annual economic growth in the current decade, even excluding the dismal contributions that 2008 and 2009 will make to the average, has been the slowest of any decade since the 1930s.
 So for the first time in more than 70 years, the epicenter of the American economy can be placed outside of California or New York or the industrial Midwest. It can be placed in Washington. Washington won't merely be given the task of pulling the economy out of the immediate crisis. It will also have to figure out how to put the American economy on a more sustainable path -- to help it achieve fast, broadly shared growth and do so without the benefit of a bubble. Obama said as much in his inauguration speech when he pledged to overhaul Washington's approach to education, health care, science and infrastructure, all in an effort to ''lay a new foundation for growth.'' 
 For centuries, people have worried that economic growth had limits -- that the only way for one group to prosper was at the expense of another. The pessimists, from Malthus and the Luddites and on, have been proved wrong again and again. Growth is not finite. But it is also not inevitable. It requires a strategy.
 II. THE UPSIDE OF A DOWNTURN
 TWO WEEKS AFTER THE ELECTION, Rahm Emanuel, Obama's chief of staff, appeared before an audience of business executives and laid out an idea that Lawrence H. Summers, Obama's top economic adviser, later described to me as Rahm's Doctrine. ''You never want a serious crisis to go to waste,'' Emanuel said. ''What I mean by that is that it's an opportunity to do things you could not do before.''
 In part, the idea is standard political maneuvering. Obama had an ambitious agenda -- on health care, energy and taxes -- before the economy took a turn for the worse in the fall, and he has an interest in connecting the financial crisis to his pre-existing plans. ''Things we had postponed for too long, that were long term, are now immediate and must be dealt with,'' Emanuel said in November. Of course, the existence of the crisis doesn't force the Obama administration to deal with education or health care. But the fact that the economy appears to be mired in its worst recession in a generation may well allow the administration to confront problems that have festered for years. That's the crux of the doctrine. 
 The counterargument is hardly trivial -- namely, that the financial crisis is so serious that the administration shouldn't distract itself with other matters. That is a risk, as is the additional piling on of debt for investments that might not bear fruit for a long while. But Obama may not have the luxury of trying to deal with the problems separately. This crisis may be his one chance to begin transforming the economy and avoid future crises.
 In the early 1980s, an economist named Mancur Olson developed a theory that could fairly be called the academic version of Rahm's Doctrine. Olson, a University of Maryland professor who died in 1998, is one of those academics little known to the public but famous among his peers. His seminal work, ''The Rise and Decline of Nations,'' published in 1982, helped explain how stable, affluent societies tend to get in trouble. The book turns out to be a surprisingly useful guide to the current crisis.
 In Olson's telling, successful countries give rise to interest groups that accumulate more and more influence over time. Eventually, the groups become powerful enough to win government favors, in the form of new laws or friendly regulators. These favors allow the groups to benefit at the expense of everyone else; not only do they end up with a larger piece of the economy's pie, but they do so in a way that keeps the pie from growing as much as it otherwise would. Trade barriers and tariffs are the classic example. They help the domestic manufacturer of a product at the expense of millions of consumers, who must pay high prices and choose from a limited selection of goods. 
 Olson's book was short but sprawling, touching on everything from the Great Depression to the caste system in India. His primary case study was Great Britain in the decades after World War II. As an economic and military giant for more than two centuries, it had accumulated one of history's great collections of interest groups -- miners, financial traders and farmers, among others. These interest groups had so shackled Great Britain's economy by the 1970s that its high unemployment and slow growth came to be known as ''British disease.''
 Germany and Japan, on the other hand, were forced to rebuild their economies and political systems after the war. Their interest groups were wiped away by the defeat. ''In a crisis, there is an opportunity to rearrange things, because the status quo is blown up,'' Frank Levy, an M.I.T. economist and an Olson admirer, told me recently. If a country slowly glides down toward irrelevance, he said, the constituency for reform won't take shape. Olson's insight was that the defeated countries of World War II didn't rise in spite of crisis. They rose because of it. 
 The parallels to the modern-day United States, though not exact, are plain enough. This country's long period of economic pre-eminence has produced a set of interest groups that, in Olson's words, ''reduce efficiency and aggregate income.'' Home builders and real estate agents pushed for housing subsidies, which made many of them rich but made the real estate bubble possible. Doctors, drug makers and other medical companies persuaded the federal government to pay for expensive treatments that have scant evidence of being effective. Those treatments are the primary reason this country spends so much more than any other on medicine. In these cases, and in others, interest groups successfully lobbied for actions that benefited them and hurt the larger economy. 
 Surely no interest group fits Olson's thesis as well as Wall Street. It used an enormous amount of leverage -- debt -- to grow to unprecedented size. At times Wall Street seemed ubiquitous. Eight Major League ballparks are named for financial-services companies, as are the theater for the Alvin Ailey dance company, a top children's hospital in New York and even a planned entrance of the St. Louis Zoo. At Princeton, the financial-engineering program, meant to educate future titans of finance, enrolled more undergraduates than any of the traditional engineering programs. Before the stock market crashed last year, finance companies earned 27 percent of the nation's corporate profits, up from about 15 percent in the 1970s and '80s. These profits bought political influence. Congress taxed the income of hedge-fund managers at a lower rate than most everyone else's. Regulators didn't ask too many hard questions and then often moved on to a Wall Street job of their own.
 In good times -- or good-enough times -- the political will to beat back such policies simply doesn't exist. Their costs are too diffuse, and their benefits too concentrated. A crisis changes the dynamic. It's an opportunity to do things you could not do before.
 England's crisis was the Winter of Discontent, in 1978-79, when strikes paralyzed the country and many public services shut down. The resulting furor helped elect Margaret Thatcher as prime minister and allowed her to sweep away some of the old economic order. Her laissez-faire reforms were flawed in some important ways -- taken to an extreme, they helped create the current financial crisis -- and they weren't the only reason for England's turnaround. But they made a difference. In the 30 years since her election, England has grown faster than Germany or Japan. 
 III. THE INVESTMENT GAP
 ONE GOOD WAY TO UNDERSTAND the current growth slowdown is to think of the debt-fueled consumer-spending spree of the past 20 years as a symbol of an even larger problem. As a country we have been spending too much on the present and not enough on the future. We have been consuming rather than investing. We're suffering from investment-deficit disorder. 
 You can find examples of this disorder in just about any realm of American life. Walk into a doctor's office and you will be asked to fill out a long form with the most basic kinds of information that you have provided dozens of times before. Walk into a doctor's office in many other rich countries and that information -- as well as your medical history -- will be stored in computers. These electronic records not only reduce hassle; they also reduce medical errors. Americans cannot avail themselves of this innovation despite the fact that the United States spends far more on health care, per person, than any other country. We are spending our money to consume medical treatments, many of which have only marginal health benefits, rather than to invest it in ways that would eventually have far broader benefits. 
 Along similar lines, Americans are indefatigable buyers of consumer electronics, yet a smaller share of households in the United States has broadband Internet service than in Canada, Japan, Britain, South Korea and about a dozen other countries. Then there's education: this country once led the world in educational attainment by a wide margin. It no longer does. And transportation: a trip from Boston to Washington, on the fastest train in this country, takes six-and-a-half hours. A trip from Paris to Marseilles, roughly the same distance, takes three hours -- a result of the French government's commitment to infrastructure. 
 These are only a few examples. Tucked away in the many statistical tables at the Commerce Department are numbers on how much the government and the private sector spend on investment and research -- on highways, software, medical research and other things likely to yield future benefits. Spending by the private sector hasn't changed much over time. It was equal to 17 percent of G.D.P. 50 years ago, and it is about 17 percent now. But spending by the government -- federal, state and local -- has changed. It has dropped from about 7 percent of G.D.P. in the 1950s to about 4 percent now.
 Governments have a unique role to play in making investments for two main reasons. Some activities, like mass transportation and pollution reduction, have societal benefits but not necessarily financial ones, and the private sector simply won't undertake them. And while many other kinds of investments do bring big financial returns, only a fraction of those returns go to the original investor. This makes the private sector reluctant to jump in. As a result, economists say that the private sector tends to spend less on research and investment than is economically ideal. 
 Historically, the government has stepped into the void. It helped create new industries with its investments. Economic growth has many causes, including demographics and some forces that economists admit they don't understand. But government investment seems to have one of the best track records of lifting growth. In the 1950s and '60s, the G.I. Bill created a generation of college graduates, while the Interstate System of highways made the entire economy more productive. Later, the Defense Department developed the Internet, which spawned AOL, Google and the rest. The late '90s Internet boom was the only sustained period in the last 35 years when the economy grew at 4 percent a year. It was also the only time in the past 35 years when the incomes of the poor and the middle class rose at a healthy pace. Growth doesn't ensure rising living standards for everyone, but it sure helps.
 Even so, the idea that the government would be playing a much larger role in promoting economic growth would have sounded radical, even among Democrats, until just a few months ago. After all, the European countries that have tried guiding huge swaths of their economies -- that have kept their arms around the ''commanding heights,'' in Lenin's enduring phrase -- have grown even more slowly than this country in recent years. But the credit crunch and the deepening recession have changed the discussion here. The federal government seems as if it was doing too little to take advantage of the American economy's enormous assets: its size, its openness and its mobile, risk-taking work force. The government is also one of the few large entities today able to borrow at a low interest rate. It alone can raise the capital that could transform the economy in the kind of fundamental ways that Olson described. 
 ''This recession is a critical economic problem -- it is a crisis,'' Summers told me recently. ''But a moment when there are millions of people who are unemployed, when the federal government can borrow money over the long term at under 3 percent and when we face long-run fiscal problems is also a moment of great opportunity to make investments in the future of the country that have lagged for a long time.'' 
 He then told a story that John F. Kennedy liked to tell, about an early-20th-century French marshal named Hubert Lyautey. ''The guy says to his gardener, 'Could you plant a tree?' '' Summers said. ''The gardener says, 'Come on, it's going to take 50 years before you see anything out of that tree.' The guy says, 'It's going to take 50 years? Really? Then plant it this morning.' ''
 IV. STIMULUS VS. TRANSFORMATION
 THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S FIRST CHANCE to build a new economy -- an investment economy -- is the stimulus package that has been dominating policy discussions in Washington. Obama has repeatedly said he wants it to be a down payment on solving bigger problems. The twin goals, he said recently, are to ''immediately jump-start job creation and long-term growth.'' But it is not easy to balance those goals.
 For the bill to provide effective stimulus, it simply has to spend money -- quickly. Employing people to dig ditches and fill them up again would qualify. So would any of the ''shovel ready'' projects that have made it onto the list of stimulus possibilities. Even the construction of a mob museum in Las Vegas, a project that was crossed off the list after Republicans mocked it, would work to stimulate the economy, so long as ground was broken soon. Pork and stimulus aren't mutually exclusive. But pork won't transform an economy. Neither will the tax cuts that are likely to be in the plan.
 Sometimes a project can give an economy a lift and also lead to transformation, but sometimes the goals are at odds, at least in the short term. Nothing demonstrates this quandary quite so well as green jobs, which are often cited as the single best hope for driving the post-bubble economy. Obama himself makes this case. Consumer spending has been the economic engine of the past two decades, he has said. Alternative energy will supposedly be the engine of the future -- a way to save the planet, reduce the amount of money flowing to hostile oil-producing countries and revive the American economy, all at once. Put in these terms, green jobs sounds like a free lunch.
 Green jobs can certainly provide stimulus. Obama's proposal includes subsidies for companies that make wind turbines, solar power and other alternative energy sources, and these subsidies will create some jobs. But the subsidies will not be nearly enough to eliminate the gap between the cost of dirty, carbon-based energy and clean energy. Dirty-energy sources -- oil, gas and coal -- are cheap. That's why we have become so dependent on them. 
 The only way to create huge numbers of clean-energy jobs would be to raise the cost of dirty-energy sources, as Obama's proposed cap-and-trade carbon-reduction program would do, to make them more expensive than clean energy. This is where the green-jobs dream gets complicated. 
 For starters, of the $700 billion we spend each year on energy, more than half stays inside this country. It goes to coal companies or utilities here, not to Iran or Russia. If we begin to use less electricity, those utilities will cut jobs. Just as important, the current, relatively low price of energy allows other companies -- manufacturers, retailers, even white-collar enterprises -- to sell all sorts of things at a profit. Raising that cost would raise the cost of almost everything that businesses do. Some projects that would have been profitable to Boeing, Kroger or Microsoft in the current economy no longer will be. Jobs that would otherwise have been created won't be. As Rob Stavins, a leading environmental economist, says, ''Green jobs will, to some degree, displace other jobs.'' Just think about what happened when gas prices began soaring last spring: sales of some hybrids increased, but vehicle sales fell overall.
 None of this means that Obama's climate policy is a mistake. Raising the price of carbon makes urgent sense, for the well-being of the planet and of the human race. And the economic costs of a serious climate policy are unlikely to be nearly as big as the alarmists -- lobbyists and members of Congress trying to protect old-line energy industries -- suggest. Various analyses of Obama's cap-and-trade plan, including one by Stavins, suggest that after it is fully implemented, it would cost less than 1 percent of gross domestic product a year, or about $100 billion in today's terms. That cost is entirely manageable. But it's still a cost. 
 Or perhaps we should think of it as an investment. Like so much in the economy, our energy policy has been geared toward the short term. Inexpensive energy made daily life easier and less expensive for all of us. Building a green economy, on the other hand, will require some sacrifice. In the end, that sacrifice should pay a handsome return in the form of icecaps that don't melt and droughts that don't happen -- events with costs of their own. Over time, the direct economic costs of a new energy policy may also fall. A cap-and-trade program will create incentives for the private sector to invest in alternative energy, which will lead to innovations and lower prices. Some of the new clean-energy spending, meanwhile, really will replace money now flowing overseas and create jobs here. 
 But all those benefits will come later. The costs will come sooner, which is a big reason we do not already have a green economy -- or an investment economy. 
 V. CURING INEFFICIENCIES 
 WASHINGTON'S CHALLENGE on energy policy is to rewrite the rules so that the private sector can start building one of tomorrow's big industries. On health care, the challenge is keeping one of tomorrow's industries from growing too large.
 For almost two decades, spending on health care grew rapidly, no matter what the rest of the economy was doing. Some of this is only natural. As a society gets richer and the basic comforts of life become commonplace, people will choose to spend more of their money on health and longevity instead of a third car or a fourth television. 
 Much of the increases in health care spending, however, are a result of government rules that have made the sector a fabulously -- some say uniquely -- inefficient sector. These inefficiencies have left the United States spending far more than other countries on medicine and, by many measures, getting worse results. The costs of health care are now so large that it has become one problem that cannot be solved by growth alone. It's qualitatively different from the other budget problems facing the government, like the Wall Street bailout, the stimulus, the war in Iraq or Social Security. 
 You can see that by looking at various costs as a share of one year of economic output -- that is, gross domestic product. Surprisingly, the debt that the federal government has already accumulated doesn't present much of a problem. It is equal to about $6 trillion, or 40 percent of G.D.P., a level that is slightly lower than the average of the past six decades. The bailout, the stimulus and the rest of the deficits over the next two years will probably add about 15 percent of G.D.P. to the debt. That will take debt to almost 60 percent, which is above its long-term average but well below the levels of the 1950s. But the unfinanced parts of Medicare, the spending that the government has promised over and above the taxes it will collect in the coming decades requires another decimal place. They are equal to more than 200 percent of current G.D.P. 
 During the campaign, Obama talked about the need to control medical costs and mentioned a few ideas for doing so, but he rarely lingered on the topic. He spent more time talking about expanding health-insurance coverage, which would raise the government's bill. After the election, however, when time came to name a budget director, Obama sent a different message. He appointed Peter Orszag, who over the last two years has become one of the country's leading experts on the looming budget mess that is health care. 
 Orszag is a tall, 40-year-old Massachusetts native, made taller by his preference for cowboy boots, who has risen through the Democratic policy ranks over the last 15 years. He received a Ph.D. from the London School of Economics, later joined the Clinton White House and, from 2007, was the director of the Congressional Budget Office. While there, he devoted himself to studying health care, believing that it was far more important to the future of the budget than any other issue in front of Congress. He nearly doubled the number of health care analysts in the office, to 50. Obama highlighted this work when he announced Orszag's appointment in November. 
 In Orszag's final months on Capitol Hill, he specifically argued that health care reform should not wait until the financial system has been fixed. ''One of the blessings in the current environment is that we have significant capacity to expand and sell Treasury debt,'' he told me recently. ''If we didn't have that, and if the financial markets didn't have confidence that we would repay that debt, we would be in even more dire straits than we are.'' Absent a health care overhaul, the federal government's lenders around the world may eventually grow nervous about its ability to repay its debts. That, in turn, will cause them to demand higher interest rates to cover their risk when lending to the United States. Facing higher interest rates, the government won't be able to afford the kind of loans needed to respond to a future crisis, be it financial or military. The higher rates will also depress economic growth, aggravating every other problem. 
 So what should be done? Orszag was technically prohibited from advocating policies in his old job. But it wasn't very hard to read between the lines. In a series of speeches around the country, in testimony to Congress and in a blog that he started (''Director's Blog''), he laid out a fairly clear agenda.
 Orszag would begin his talks by explaining that the problem is not one of demographics but one of medicine. ''It's not primarily that we're going to have more 85-year-olds,'' he said during a September speech in California. ''It's primarily that each 85-year-old in the future will cost us a lot more than they cost us today.'' The medical system will keep coming up with expensive new treatments, and Medicare will keep reimbursing them, even if they bring little benefit.
 After this introduction, Orszag would typically pause and advise his audience not to get too depressed. He would put a map of the United States on the screen behind him, showing Medicare spending by region. The higher-spending regions were shaded darker than the lower-spending regions. Orszag would then explain that the variation cannot be explained by the health of the local population or the quality of care it receives. Darker areas didn't necessarily have sicker residents than lighter areas, nor did those residents necessarily receive better care. So, Orszag suggested, the goal of reform doesn't need to be remaking the American health care system in the image of, say, the Dutch system. The goal seems more attainable than that. It is remaking the system of a high-spending place, like southern New Jersey or Texas, in the image of a low-spending place, like Minnesota, New Mexico or Virginia. 
 To that end, Orszag has become intrigued by the work of Mitchell Seltzer, a hospital consultant in central New Jersey. Seltzer has collected large amounts of data from his clients on how various doctors treat patients, and his numbers present a very similar picture to the regional data. Seltzer told me that big-spending doctors typically explain their treatment by insisting they have sicker patients than their colleagues. In response he has made charts breaking down the costs of care into thin diagnostic categories, like ''respiratory-system diagnosis with ventilator support, severity: 4,'' in order to compare doctors who were treating the same ailment. The charts make the point clearly. Doctors who spent more -- on extra tests or high-tech treatments, for instance -- didn't get better results than their more conservative colleagues. In many cases, patients of the aggressive doctors stay sicker longer and die sooner because of the risks that come with invasive care.
 The first step toward turning ''less efficient'' doctors, in Seltzer's euphemism, into ''efficient'' doctors would be relatively uncontroversial. The government would have to create a national version of his database and, to do so, would need doctors and hospitals to have electronic medical records. The Obama administration plans to use the stimulus bill to help pay for the installation of such systems. It is then likely to mandate that, within five years, any doctor or hospital receiving Medicare payment must be using electronic records.
 The next steps will be harder. Based on what the data show, Medicare will have to stop reimbursing some expensive treatments that don't do much good. Private insurers would likely follow Medicare's lead, as they have on other issues in the past. Doctors, many of whom make good money from extra treatments, are sure to object, just as Mancur Olson would have predicted. They will claim that, whatever the data show, the treatments are benefiting their patients. In a few cases -- though, by definition, not most -- they may be right. Even when they are not, their patients, desperate for hope, may fight for the treatment. 
 The most pessimistic point that Orszag routinely made during his time on Capitol Hill was that the political system didn't deal well with simmering, long-term problems. It often waited until those problems became a crisis, he would say. That may be a kind of corollary to Rahm's Doctrine, but it does highlight the task before the Obama administration. It will need to figure out how it can use one crisis as an excuse to prevent several more.
 VI. GRADUATES EQUAL GROWTH
 A GREAT APPEAL of green jobs -- or, for that matter, of a growing and efficient health care sector -- is that they make it possible to imagine what tomorrow's economy might look like. They are concrete. When somebody wonders, What will replace Wall Street? What will replace housing? they can be given an answer. 
 As answers go, green jobs and health care are fine. But they probably aren't the best answers. The best one is less concrete. It also has a lot more historical evidence on its side.
 Last year, two labor economists, Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz, published a book called ''The Race Between Education and Technology.'' It is as much a work of history -- the history of education -- as it is a work of economics. Goldin and Katz set out to answer the question of how much an education really matters. They are themselves products of public schools, she of New York and he of Los Angeles, and they have been a couple for two decades. They are liberals (Katz served as the chief economist under Robert Reich in Bill Clinton's Labor Department), but their book has been praised by both the right and the left. ''I read the Katz and Goldin book,'' Matthew Slaughter, an associate dean of Dartmouth's business school who was an economic adviser to George W. Bush, recently told me, ''and there's part of me that can't fathom that half the presidential debates weren't about a couple of facts in that book.'' Summers wrote a blurb for the book, calling it ''the definitive treatment'' of income inequality.
 The book's central fact is that the United States has lost its once-wide lead in educational attainment. South Korea and Denmark graduate a larger share of their population from college -- and Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom are close on our heels. 
 Goldin and Katz explain that the original purpose of American education was political, to educate the citizens of a democracy. By the start of the 20th century, though, the purpose had become blatantly economic. As parents saw that high-school graduates were getting most of the good jobs, they started a grass-roots movement, known as the high-school movement, to demand free, public high schools in their communities. ''Middletown,'' the classic 1929 sociological study of life in Indiana, reported that education ''evokes the fervor of a religion, a means of salvation, among a large section of the population.'' 
 At the time, some European intellectuals dismissed the new American high schools as wasteful. Instead of offering narrowly tailored apprentice programs, the United States was accused of overeducating its masses (or at least its white masses). But Goldin and Katz, digging into old population surveys, show that the American system paid huge dividends. High-school graduates filled the ranks of companies like General Electric and John Deere and used their broad base of skills to help their employers become global powers. And these new white-collar workers weren't the only ones to benefit. A high-school education also paid off for blue-collar workers. Those with a diploma were far more likely to enter newer, better-paying, more technologically advanced industries. They became plumbers, jewelers, electricians, auto mechanics and railroad engineers. 
 Not only did mass education increase the size of the nation's economic pie; it also evened out the distribution. The spread of high schools -- by 1940, half of teenagers were getting a diploma -- meant that graduates were no longer an elite group. In economic terms, their supply had increased, which meant that the wage premium that came with a diploma was now spread among a larger group of workers. Sure enough, inequality fell rapidly in the middle decades of the 20th century. 
 But then the great education boom petered out, starting in the late 1960s. The country's worst high schools never got their graduation rates close to 100 percent, while many of the fast-growing community colleges and public colleges, which were educating middle-class and poorer students, had low graduation rates. Between the early 1950s and early '80s, the share of young adults receiving a bachelor's degree jumped to 24 percent, from 7 percent. In the 30 years since, the share has only risen to 32 percent. Nearly all of the recent gains have come among women. For the first time on record, young men in the last couple of decades haven't been much more educated than their fathers were. 
 Goldin and Katz are careful to say that economic growth is not simply a matter of investing in education. And we can all name exceptions to the general rule. Bill Gates dropped out of college (though, as Malcolm Gladwell explains in his recent book, ''Outliers,'' Gates received a fabulously intense computer-programming education while in high school). Some college graduates struggle to make a good living, and many will lose their jobs in this recession. But these are exceptions. Goldin's and Katz's thesis is that the 20th century was the American century in large part because this country led the world in education. The last 30 years, when educational gains slowed markedly, have been years of slower growth and rising inequality.
 Their argument happens to be supported by a rich body of economic literature that didn't even make it into the book. More-educated people are healthier, live longer and, of course, make more money. Countries that educate more of their citizens tend to grow faster than similar countries that do not. The same is true of states and regions within this country. Crucially, the income gains tend to come after the education gains. What distinguishes thriving Boston from the other struggling cities of New England? Part of the answer is the relative share of children who graduate from college. The two most affluent immigrant groups in modern America -- Asian-Americans and Jews -- are also the most educated. In recent decades, as the educational attainment of men has stagnated, so have their wages. The median male worker is roughly as educated as he was 30 years ago and makes roughly the same in hourly pay. The median female worker is far more educated than she was 30 years ago and makes 30 percent more than she did then. 
 There really is no mystery about why education would be the lifeblood of economic growth. On the most basic level, education helps people figure out how to make objects and accomplish tasks more efficiently. It allows companies to make complex products that the rest of the world wants to buy and thus creates high-wage jobs. Education may not be as tangible as green jobs. But it helps a society leverage every other investment it makes, be it in medicine, transportation or alternative energy. Education -- educating more people and educating them better -- appears to be the best single bet that a society can make.
 Fortunately, we know much more than we did even a decade ago about how education works and doesn't work. In his book, ''Whatever It Takes,'' (and in this magazine, where he is an editor), Paul Tough has described some of the most successful schools for poor and minority students. These schools tend to set rigorous standards, keep the students in school longer and create a disciplined, can-do culture. Many of the schools, like several middle schools run by an organization called KIPP, have had terrific results. Students enter with test scores below the national average. They leave on a path to college.
 The lessons of KIPP -- some of the lessons, at least -- also apply to schools that are not so poor. Last year, the Gates Foundation hired an economist named Thomas Kane to oversee a big new push to prepare students for college. Kane is one of the researchers whose work shows that teachers may matter more than anything else. Good teachers tend to receive high marks from parents, colleagues and principals, and they tend to teach their students much more than average teachers. Bad teachers tend to do poorly on all these metrics. The differences are usually apparent after just a couple of years on the job. Yet in a typical school system, both groups receive tenure. 
 The Obama administration has suggested that education reform is an important goal. The education secretary is Arne Duncan, the former school superintendent in Chicago, who pushed for education changes there based on empirical data. Obama advisers say that the administration plans to use the education money in the stimulus package as leverage. States that reward good teaching and use uniform testing standards -- rather than the choose-your-own-yardstick approach of the No Child Left Behind law -- may get more money. 
 But it is still unclear just how much of a push the administration will make. With the financial crisis looming so large, something as sprawling and perennially plagued as education can seem like a sideshow. Given everything else on its agenda, the Obama administration could end up financing a few promising pilot programs without actually changing much. States, for their part, will be cutting education spending to balance their budgets.
 A few weeks ago, I drove to Shepherd University in West Virginia to get a glimpse of both the good and bad news for education. Shepherd is the kind of public college that will need to be at the center of any effort to improve higher education. Located in a small town in the Shenandoah Valley, it attracts mostly middle-class students -- from the actual middle class, not the upper middle class -- and it has a graduation rate of about 35 percent. 
 Several years ago, the state of West Virginia started a scholarship program, called Promise, in part to lift the graduation rate at places like Shepherd. The program is modeled after those in several Southern states, in which any high-school student with a certain minimum grade-point average (often 3.0) and certain SAT scores gets a hefty scholarship to any state school. When West Virginia officials were designing their program, though, they noticed a flaw with the other programs. The students weren't required to take a course load that was big enough to let them graduate in four years. In some cases they were required to keep a minimum grade-point average, which encouraged them, perversely, to take fewer courses. Many students drifted along for a few years and then dropped out. 
 So West Virginia changed the rules. It offered a bigger carrot -- free tuition at any public college -- but also a stick. Students had to take enough courses each semester so that they could graduate in four years. Judith Scott-Clayton, a young economist who analyzed the program, concluded that it had raised the on-time graduation rate by almost 7 percentage points in a state where many colleges have a graduation rate below 50 percent.
 Given those results, the Promise scholarship might seem like an ideal public policy in a deep recession. It pays for school at a time when many families are struggling. It keeps students busy when jobs are hard to come by. It also has the potential to do some long-term good. But nearly everyone I interviewed in West Virginia -- the students, the president of Shepherd and other education officials -- worried that financing would be reduced soon. The program is expensive, and state revenue is declining. Something has to give.
 VII. A MATTER OF NORMS
 WHAT STRUCK ME ABOUT the Shepherd students I met was that they didn't seem to spend much time thinking about the credit requirement. It had become part of their reality. Many college students today assume they will not graduate in four years. Some even refer to themselves as second- or third-years, instead of sophomores or juniors. ''It's just normal all around not to be done in four years,'' Chelsea Carter, a Shepherd student, told me. ''People don't push you.'' Carter, in fact, introduced herself to me as a third-year. But she is also a Promise scholar, and she said she expected to graduate in four years. Her younger sister, now in her first year in the program at Shepherd, also plans to graduate in four years. For many Promise scholars, graduating on time has become the norm.
 Economists don't talk much about cultural norms. They prefer to emphasize prices, taxes and other incentives. And the transformation of the American economy will depend very much on such incentives: financial aid, Medicare reimbursements, energy prices and marginal tax rates. But it will also depend on forces that aren't quite so easy to quantify.
 Orszag, on his barnstorming tour to talk about the health care system, argued that his fellow economists were making a mistake by paying so little attention to norms. After all, doctors in Minnesota don't work under a different Medicare system than doctors in New Jersey. But they do act differently.
 The norms of the last two decades or so -- consume before invest; worry about the short term, not the long term -- have been more than just a reflection of the economy. They have also affected the economy. Chief executives have fought for paychecks that their predecessors would have considered obscenely large. Technocrats inside Washington's regulatory agencies, after listening to their bosses talk endlessly about the dangers of overregulation, made quite sure that they weren't regulating too much. Financial engineering became a more appealing career track than actual engineering or science. In one of the small gems in their book, Goldin and Katz write that towns and cities with a large elderly population once devoted a higher-than-average share of their taxes to schools. Apparently, age made them see the benefits of education. In recent decades, though, the relationship switched. Older towns spent less than average on schools. You can imagine voters in these places asking themselves, ''What's in it for me?''
 By any standard, the Obama administration faces an imposing economic to-do list. It will try to end the financial crisis and recession as quickly as possible, even as it starts work on an agenda that will inspire opposition from a murderers' row of interest groups: Wall Street, Big Oil, Big Coal, the American Medical Association and teachers' unions. Some items on the agenda will fail.
 But the same was true of the New Deal and the decades after World War II, the period that is obviously the model for the Obama years. Roosevelt and Truman both failed to pass universal health insurance or even a program like Medicare. Yet the successes of those years -- Social Security, the highway system, the G.I. Bill, the National Science Foundation, the National Labor Relations Board -- had a huge effect on the culture. 
 The American economy didn't simply grow rapidly in the late 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. It grew rapidly and gave an increasing share of its bounty to the vast middle class. Middle-class incomes soared during those years, while income growth at the very top of the ladder, which had been so great in the 1920s, slowed down. The effects were too great to be explained by a neat package of policies, just as the last few decades can't be explained only by education, investment and the like. 
 When Washington sets out to rewrite the rules for the economy, it can pass new laws and shift money from one program to another. But the effects of those changes are not likely to be merely the obvious ones. The changes can also send signals. They can influence millions of individual decisions -- about the schools people attend, the jobs they choose, the medical care they request -- and, in the process, reshape the economy. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



59 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Long Shot For Peace

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
 In any discussion of the Middle East at the World Economic Forum here in Davos, the central figure is a man who isn't even here: President Obama.
 Mr. Obama's first moves are being greeted with vast relief by a broad range of players in the region. There's also a whisper of hope that a serious American peace effort by Mr. Obama just might transform the Middle East, with the most promising route passing through Syria.
 President Bush's problem was that he loved Israel too much. He embraced Israeli leaders even when they responded to provocations by killing more than 1,300 people in Gaza, according to Gaza health officials -- in retaliation for shelling that had killed fewer than 30 Israelis since it began in 2001. 
 This tilted policy was catastrophic for Israelis as well as Palestinians, for it undermined any chance of a peace agreement that is Israel's best hope for long-term security. Now we're starting over.
 The way Gaza has raised tensions was evident in a panel discussion in Davos on Thursday when the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, complained furiously that he wasn't given enough time to respond to Israel's president, Shimon Peres. Mr. Erdogan then stormed off the stage and threatened never to return to Davos.
 Those pyrotechnics overshadowed a much more positive undercurrent here -- enthusiasm for more American engagement in the region, in a more evenhanded way.
 Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, told me he was ''very encouraged'' by Mr. Obama's first moves, like appointing George Mitchell as special envoy. ''It's high time for the Americans to take a bold initiative,'' he said. 
 Tony Blair, the former British prime minister, praised Mr. Obama's ''good start'' on the Middle East. Hoshyar Zebari, the Iraqi foreign minister, joined the praise and added: ''There is an opportunity. I hope this opportunity will be exploited to the limit.''
 Amr Moussa, the head of the Arab League, declared, ''There are prospects of the U.S. returning to the role of honest broker, which we missed.'' That view seems widespread here, and is shared by many in Israel as well.
 ''You have a complete breakdown of trust: 'It's my toy!' 'No, it's my toy!' '' said David Rosen, the former chief rabbi of Ireland, now based in Jerusalem as head of interreligious affairs for the American Jewish Committee. ''We need someone who can move the parties beyond their own pain and vulnerability.''
 There are two major ways in which the Obama administration can do that.
 First, it must push to reduce the misery in Palestinian territories. A peace deal with the Palestinians is not possible today, partly because the Palestinians themselves are bitterly divided between Fatah and Hamas. But nothing can be done anywhere as long as scenes of Gaza suffering are unfolding on television screens.
 That means that Israel must lift the siege of Gaza, completely opening the crossings. If Hamas resumes its unconscionable rocket attacks on Israeli civilians, then bomb the tunnels or strike Hamas targets in a proportional way, but don't escalate. 
 Mr. Obama should also insist on a complete halt of settlement activity on the West Bank, and on an easing of the West Bank checkpoints that make life wretched for Palestinians. All that would also bolster moderates in the Palestinian Authority, making an eventual deal more likely.
 Second, the United States should focus on a peace deal between Syria and Israel. With a Palestinian deal impossible for the time being, the path forward is to try to peel Syria away from Iran. If that strategy succeeded, Iran's subversive influence would be reduced, Hamas might be moderated, and there would be momentum for further gains.
 Turkey has been mediating talks between Syria and Israel, and Prime Minister Erdogan said those talks had been making great progress. ''We were very close until the Gaza events,'' added the Turkish foreign minister, Ali Babacan. That peace effort must be revived with strong American participation.
 Most of the elements of the Israel-Syria deal were agreed upon years ago, and one of Syria's main aims is better relations with the United States. That is something that the Obama administration can provide.
 Mr. Ban has been conducting his own relentless shuttle diplomacy in the Middle East, and he said he was hopeful after recent conversations with Syria's president and Israel's prime minister. 
 All this is a long shot, of course. But Mr. Obama knows something about long odds coming home, and few people have made money betting against him. 
 Mea culpa: In Thursday's column I inadvertently paraphrased an aphorism of George Santayana, the philosopher. The proper wording is: ''Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); RELIGION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%); SHIMON PERES (57%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



60 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: And Now Let The Jockeying Begin

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- In her first days as America's top diplomat, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton found the Middle East portfolio handed off to a special envoy. Afghanistan and Pakistan were assigned to a special representative. And administration officials expect another special envoy to be tapped soon to deal with Iran.
 So with much of her turf already parceled off, Mrs. Clinton made a bid to take over the China file, which in recent years has been primarily the responsibility of the Treasury Department since the major issues with Beijing tend to be economic. Mrs. Clinton said the administration needed ''a more comprehensive approach.'' The only trick is Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has no intention of giving that up.
 The opening phase of any administration involves a certain amount of jockeying as new players struggle to define their territory and establish boundaries with colleagues. The lines and boxes in organization charts are only the starting point. Force of personality, political heft and relationships among the power elite can be just as important in determining who really takes the lead in various priority areas under a new president. 
 Under Mr. Obama, that may prove even more complicated. More than any president in years, Mr. Obama came into office creating new White House czars and special envoys to supervise various hot-button issues at home and abroad, overlaying an additional set of actors upon a bureaucracy already scratchy about who's in charge. Mr. Obama concluded that new high-powered figures were needed to force change but they pose a delicate management challenge for a president with no real management experience beyond his presidential campaign.
 ''I think it's actually quite a workable model,'' said John D. Podesta, who helped design it as Mr. Obama's transition co-chairman. ''It doesn't subjugate the cabinet officers.'' While there will be multiple players in every key arena, Mr. Podesta said the new White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, would be a firm umpire. ''It puts a burden on Rahm to discipline the intramural sports,'' Mr. Podesta said, ''but he's a strong chief of staff and I don't think it's going to be a problem.''
 In addition to naming special envoys for critical regions, Mr. Obama also created a new White House office to oversee health care, a new White House office to oversee climate change and energy, a new White House office to oversee urban policy and a new White House office to oversee technology. He also created a new group of economic advisers to go along with the two economic councils the president already has. He plans to name a czar to oversee the economic rescue of the auto industry. And on top of all that, he formed a task force to focus on economics specifically for the middle class, this one headed by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 Moreover, many of the players bring long, interwoven histories to the table. Mrs. Clinton, for example, reportedly once got Mr. Emanuel demoted when he worked in Bill Clinton's White House, though they later grew closer. And when Mr. Clinton considered making former Senator George J. Mitchell secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton was believed to have favored Madeleine K. Albright. Now Mr. Mitchell is the special envoy to the Middle East.
 The economic arena had the most potential for overlap overload, particularly because Mr. Obama appointed Mr. Geithner to be Treasury secretary but recruited Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary himself, to head the National Economic Council in the White House. 
 In theory, Mr. Geithner has the more prominent position -- a cabinet post, his name on the money, fifth in the line of succession. Mr. Summers, who once had all that, now officially has a staff job charged with coordinating policy across agencies. But anyone who knows Mr. Summers understands the outsize role he will play.
 With Mr. Geithner delayed in taking office because of confirmation problems, Mr. Summers asserted himself as the architect of the economic recovery package now working its way through Congress. It did not go unnoticed in Mr. Geithner's circle when Time magazine reported last week that Mr. Summers ''has expanded his turf so that it touches on nearly every area of domestic and international policy.''
 But Mr. Geithner is no pushover. Taking his cue from Robert E. Rubin when he was Treasury secretary under President Clinton -- and from Mr. Summers himself after he succeeded Mr. Rubin -- Mr. Geithner has made a point of attending White House senior staff meetings each morning, something other cabinet secretaries do not do. He also has taken the lead in determining the next stage in the financial bailout and formulating new regulations for the markets.
 Mr. Obama's new czars for health care, climate change, urban policy and technology also will have to figure out relationships with their cabinet counterparts. Like Mr. Summers, Carol Browner served as an agency head under Mr. Clinton, in her case the Environmental Protection Agency. Now she serves as Mr. Obama's climate change director in the White House, coordinating not only the E.P.A. but also the departments of energy, interior and others.
 Her brief ranges over so much territory that it could be one of the most expansive positions in the new administration, which is what the Obama team said was necessary to tackle such a complicated issue crossing bureaucratic lines. Like Mr. Geithner, who once worked for Mr. Summers at Treasury, the new E.P.A. director, Lisa P. Jackson, once worked for Ms. Browner.
 Former Senator Tom Daschle may have proved the wiliest player in the organizational structure. When Mr. Obama approached him about becoming secretary of health and human services, Mr. Daschle insisted on having a second hat as the head of a new White House health care office. Like Mr. Geithner, he understood that he had to be in the White House to make policy changes -- although, like Mr. Geithner, his cabinet nomination is threatened by his failure to pay all of his taxes.
 Just as the attendance at senior staff meetings helps determine pecking order, so does the map of the West Wing. Mr. Daschle is slated to have an office in the West Wing, as does Mr. Summers. Ms. Browner, on the other hand, is working out of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building next door, where most White House aides work.
 With so many czars and senior advisers, the Obama team is trying to stuff more people into the West Wing proper than its predecessor did. That prompted Karl Rove, who was President George W. Bush's deputy chief of staff, to needle the Obama team in the Wall Street Journal last week, writing that there would be four people in the modest-size office he once occupied. Mr. Obama, Mr. Rove wrote, is likely to ''create a more centralized and possibly incoherent policy process.''
 Mr. Obama's advisers scoffed at that, saying they do not want the results produced by Mr. Bush's policy process. And they expressed faith that the no-drama edict of the Obama campaign would overcome any friction. Many of those unpacking boxes in the White House complex and the various departments across town worked together in the past, either in the Clinton administration, on Capitol Hill or at Mr. Podesta's research organization, the Center for American Progress.
 ''There are things that cut across agency lines that needed real powerful White House cohesion, direction and leadership,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''The structure that was built was done with due regard for the fact that there could be conflict. But the team we built was done with the idea that these people could work together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHARING SPACE: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and George Mitchell, special envoy to the Middle East. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN PODESTA (78%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



61 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: In Westchester, Learning to Save The Planet by Starting at Home

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

DATELINE: BEDFORD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
When New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled his sweeping environmental vision for the city two years ago, the venerable American Museum of Natural History served as his setting, and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Tony Blair, then the British prime minister, piped in messages of support via two large television screens. 
 Not to be outdone, this wealthy enclave 45 minutes north of the city rolled out its own stars on Saturday as it part of its ambitious plan for a sustainable future. Bob Woodruff, a reporter for ABC News, who lives in nearby Rye, gave the keynote address. Chevy Chase, who owns a home here, introduced the closing panel. And though the setting was a high school, not a fancy museum or hotel, nearly 1,000 people gathered to listen to experts talk about global threats to the environment and problems as close as their backyards. 
 Bedford, which has a population of 18,000, consists of three hamlets in the Croton watershed, an ecotopia of lakes, ponds and wetlands that provides New York City with part of its drinking water.
 The town is among a number of smaller communities across the country that have joined cities in trying to reduce their carbon footprints, motivated by concerns over global warming. Bedford hopes to cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent over the next 11 years. 
 The conference, billed as the Bedford Environmental Summit, drew more than 85 speakers -- all volunteering their time -- ranging from local politicians to national environmental figures like Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Thomas Lovejoy, creator of the public television program ''Nature.'' 
 Pulling off such an ambitious event was a testament to the town's environmental consciousness, but also, to some degree, to the wealth and influence of its residents. 
 But putting the rich on an energy diet has its challenges. Many of the people who came to see Mr. Kennedy give a lecture on oil depletion drove in alone in Range Rovers, Chevy Suburbans or other S.U.V.'s, making the few Toyota Priuses in the parking lot look like lonely high school nerds at lunchtime. 
 ''This is a well-heeled community, and one of the important benefits of the enormous turnout and interest today is it starts people talking and thinking,'' said Ellen Conrad, president of the Bedford Garden Club, one of the event's sponsors. ''Today is about convincing each and every person who attended that they need to make a difference, and I'm hoping the choice of cars will be an important step.'' 
 Alas, though, when asked what kind of car she drove, Ms. Conrad sheepishly admitted, ''It's a Lexus S.U.V. -- the worst.''
 By way of apology, she added that her daughters drive Priuses; her husband, whose vehicle just died, is getting one; and she will get something environmentally friendly as well, when her Lexus is finally retired. 
 ''Unfortunately that's the balance between the economics and the cause,'' she said. ''Hopefully we can shift that needle a little more to the cause and away from the economics.'' 
 Other environmental problems lurk in the town's hills, among all those spacious, energy-hungry homes. Many of the roads leading to them are kept as dirt, to make it easy for horseback riding, but contributing to runoff. And because of regulations intended to protect New York City's water supply, the town cannot build a sewage treatment plant. About 7,000 homes here rely on septic tanks, which can lead to higher concentrations of nitrogen in the groundwater, especially in more crowded areas, said Kevin Winn, Bedford's commissioner of public works. 
 The town, led by an environmental advisory board, hopes to have a detailed plan for reducing emissions within the next few months, said Mary Beth Kass, the board's chairwoman. 
 At Saturday's conference, which was held at Fox Lane High School, a band room was turned into a lecture hall where visitors could learn about the issues facing Bedford's water supply. In the small gymnasium was information about biodiversity and the evils of fast food, and in a classroom about oceans and fish in peril. 
 Down a main hallway, there was an expo where an array of companies and nonprofit groups promoted everything from low-tech organic farming to high-concept plans for green commerce. Squeezed in among them, Samantha Ruff and Eleanor Stein, both 17, displayed a project from their Advanced Placement environmental sciences course. The centerpiece was an energy pyramid, much like the familiar food pyramid, except with crop residue at the bottom leading right up to wind, solar and hydrogen at the top. 
 ''The higher you go, the cleaner the energy,'' Samantha said. 
 They were among 50 students from the course helping at the conference, listening to lectures and showing off their projects. For their 29-year-old teacher, Paul Frisch, the class and the conference were a sign of how much has changed in just a generation. 
 ''I certainly didn't have anything like this when I was in school,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayumi Doyama looked at organic grasses at the Bedford Environmental Summit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WETLANDS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LAKES (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (72%); TONY BLAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



62 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR

 BODY:
6:30 P.M. (NBC) SUPER BOWL XLIII The Arizona Cardinals make their first Super Bowl appearance, while the Pittsburgh Steelers make their seventh. The pregame programming begins at noon, with the commentators John Madden, Cris Collinsworth and Al Michaels. The recently retired coaches Tony Dungy (Indianapolis Colts) and Mike Holmgren (Seattle Seahawks) will make their broadcasting debuts in the pregame show. 
 9 A.M. (CBS) CBS NEWS SUNDAY MORNING A retrospective on the last three decades in the news on the show's 30th anniversary; highlights of Charles Kuralt's ''On the Road'' series; the actress Penelope Cruz is a guest. 
 9 A.M. (NBC) TODAY The hosts go behind the scenes at the Super Bowl, exploring the preparations for the event, touring the city of Tampa, Fla., and the stadium where the game is to be played. 
 10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader; Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York; and David Brooks, a columnist for The New York Times, are guests.
 11 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Guests include Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, member of the Finance Committee; Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Republican of Texas, member of the Banking Committee; and Steve Forbes, president and chief executive of Forbes.
 11:30 A.M. (TBS) CLUELESS (1995) Loosely based on Jane Austen's Emma, this film's protagonist, Cher (Alicia Silverstone), is a spoiled but well-intentioned Los Angeles teenager who goes through a number of humbling experiences at the hands of her best friends, her father and her ex-stepbrother.
 1 P.M. (CNN) FAREED ZAKARIA GPS A special episode with world leaders to discuss the global financial crisis; guests include Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, and Felipe Calderon, president of Mexico.
 2 P.M. (Comedy Central) JUST FRIENDS (2005) After his jet crashes, a music executive (Ryan Reynolds) who was overweight and awkward in high school is forced to return to his hometown with his mentally unstable new talent, Samantha James (Anna Faris), in tow. 
 3 P.M. (Animal Planet) PUPPY BOWL V The fifth annual Puppy Bowl will showcase a roster of ''free agents,'' meaning that all participating puppies are from shelters and can be adopted. The game will showcase the cuteness of the animals as they frolic and play with one another in a miniature football stadium. If things get out of hand, a referee, like the one above, will call penalties and review plays. 
 8:30 P.M. (FX) THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA (2006) Meryl Streep plays a tyrannical fashion magazine editor, Anne Hathaway her beleaguered assistant, and Stanley Tucci the magazine's art director in this film based on the novel of the same title by Lauren Weisberger. ''Ms. Hathaway, even made over with shiny bangs, flawless makeup and toe-squeezing footwear,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, ''is nowhere near as interesting to watch as Mr. Tucci, who has never been better, or Ms. Streep, whose perfectionism has rarely seemed so apt.''
 9 P.M. (HBO) BIG LOVE The coming trial of Roman (Harry Dean Stanton) causes turmoil in the Henrickson family.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) SHAMELESS In the fourth season of this British comedy series about the exploits of a highly unusual family, the patriarch, Frank Gallagher (David Threlfall), has just married his second wife, Sheila (Maggie O'Neill), without properly dissolving his first marriage. When he lands in the hospital with food poisoning, his first wife is the one who shows up at his bedside.
 10:05 P.M. (HBO) FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS Bret (Bret McKenzie) forms a gang to protect himself from the imagined threat of angry rap stars, while Murray (Rhys Darby) faces an actual threat from the Australian consulate.
 10:30 P.M. (NBC) THE OFFICE An hourlong post-Super-Bowl episode includes the guest stars Jessica Alba, Jack Black and Cloris Leachman. Michael (Steve Carell, left) insists on holding a roast of himself after learning that he is the No. 1 source of stress for his staff. Andy (Ed Helms) watches a pirated DVD and is convinced that the stars are none other than Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam (Jenna Fischer).
 10:30 P.M. (Ovation) DRIVEN BY VISION The premiere of a new series dedicated to major projects undertaken by amateur artists. This episode tracks botanical artistry, profiling a couple who have spent the past 40 years creating an impressive garden on their property, with self-designed sculptures. Also shown is Paradise Gardens in Georgia, created by Howard Finster. NIDA NAJAR

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DOGS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WRITERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (62%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (84%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (58%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (69%); ANNE HATHAWAY (56%); MERYL STREEP (54%); MITCH MCCONNELL (51%); GORDON BROWN (50%); FELIPE CALDERON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



63 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: The Nativists Are Restless

 BODY:
The relentlessly harsh Republican campaign against immigrants has always hidden a streak of racialist extremism. Now after several high-water years, the Republican tide has gone out, leaving exposed the nativism of fringe right-wingers clinging to what they hope will be a wedge issue.
 Last week at the National Press Club in Washington, a group seeking to speak for the future of the Republican Party declared that its November defeats in Congressional races stemmed not from having been too hard on foreigners, but too soft. 
 The group, the American Cause, released a report arguing that anti-immigration absolutism was still the solution for the party's deep electoral woes, actual voting results notwithstanding. Rather than ''pander to pro-amnesty Hispanics and swing voters,'' as President Bush and Karl Rove once tried to do, the report's author, Marcus Epstein, urged Republicans to double down on their efforts to run on schemes to seal the border and drive immigrants out. 
 This is nonsense, of course. For years Americans have rejected the cruelty of enforcement-only regimes and Latino-bashing, in opinion surveys and at the polls. In House and Senate races in 2008 and 2006, ''anti- amnesty'' hard-liners consistently lost to candidates who proposed comprehensive reform solutions. The wedge did not work for single-issue xenophobes like Lou Barletta, the mayor of Hazleton, Pa., or the former Arizona Congressman J. D. Hayworth. Nor did it help any of the Republican presidential candidates trying to defeat the party's best-known voice of immigration moderation, John McCain, for the nomination. 
 Americans want immigration solved, and they realize that mass deportations will not do that. When you add the unprecedented engagement of growing numbers of Latino voters in 2008, it becomes clear that the nativist path is the path to permanent political irrelevance. Unless you can find a way to get rid of all the Latinos. 
 What was perhaps more notable than the report itself was the team that delivered it. It included Bay Buchanan, former adviser to Representative Tom Tancredo and sister of Pat, who founded the American Cause and wrote ''State of Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America.'' She was joined by James Pinkerton, an essayist and Fox News contributor who, as an aide to the first President Bush, took credit for the racist Willie Horton ads run against Michael Dukakis.
 So far, so foul. But even more telling was the presence of Peter Brimelow, a former Forbes editor and founder of Vdare.com, an extremist anti-immigration Web site. It is named for Virginia Dare, the first white baby born in the English colonies, which tells you most of what you need to know. The site is worth a visit. There you can read Mr. Brimelow's and Mr. Buchanan's musings about racial dilution and the perils facing white people, and gems like this from Mr. Epstein:
 ''Diversity can be good in moderation -- if what is being brought in is desirable. Most Americans don't mind a little ethnic food, some Asian math whizzes, or a few Mariachi dancers -- as long as these trends do not overwhelm the dominant culture.''
 It is easy to mock white-supremacist views as pathetic and to assume that nativism in the age of Obama is on the way out. The country has, of course, made considerable progress since the days of Know-Nothings and the Klan. But racism has a nasty habit of never going away, no matter how much we may want it to, and thus the perpetual need for vigilance.
 It is all around us. Much was made of the Republican mailing of the parody song ''Barack the Magic Negro,'' but the same notorious CD included ''The Star Spanglish Banner,'' a puerile bit of Latino-baiting. It is easily found on YouTube. Google the words ''Bill O'Reilly'' and ''white, Christian male power structure'' for another YouTube taste of the Fox News host assailing the immigration views of ''the far left'' (including The Times) as racially traitorous.
 And it takes only a cursory look at a worsening economic climate and grim national mood to realize that history is always threatening to repeat itself. Last week on Long Island, the authorities in Suffolk County unsealed new indictments against a group of teenage boys accused in a murderous attack against an Ecuadorean immigrant, Marcelo Lucero. Since that crime last year, many more victims have come forward with stories of assaults in or near the same town, Patchogue. The police in that suburb seem to have made a habit of ignoring a long and escalating trail of attacks against immigrant men, until the hatred rose up and spilled over one night, fatally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WRITERS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); DEPORTATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%)

PERSON: LOU BARLETTA (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



64 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Herbert Hoover Lives

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
HERE'S a bottom line to keep you up at night: The economy is falling faster than Washington can get moving. President Obama says his stimulus plan will save or create four million jobs in two years. In the last four months of 2008 alone, employment fell by 1.9 million. Do the math.
 The abyss is widening. Of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones industrial index, 22 have announced job cuts since October. Unemployment is up in all 50 states, with layoffs at both high-tech companies (Microsoft) and low (Caterpillar). The December job loss in retailing is the worst since at least 1939. The new-home sales rate has fallen to its all-time low since record-keeping began in 1963. 
 What are Americans still buying? Big Macs, Campbell's soup, Hershey's chocolate and Spam -- the four food groups of the apocalypse. 
 The crisis is at least as grave as the one that confronted us -- and, for a time, united us -- after 9/11. Which is why the antics among Republicans on Capitol Hill seem so surreal. These are the same politicians who only yesterday smeared the patriotism of any dissenters from Bush's ''war on terror.'' Where is their own patriotism now that economic terror is inflicting far more harm on their constituents than Saddam Hussein's nonexistent W.M.D.? 
 The House stimulus bill is an inevitably imperfect hodgepodge-in-progress. Obama's next move, a new plan to prevent the collapse of America's banks, may prove more problematic still, especially given the subpar record of the new Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, in warding off calamity while at the New York Fed. No one should expect the Republicans to give the new president carte blanche, fall blindly into lock step or be ''post-partisan.'' (Though that's exactly what the G.O.P. demanded of Democrats with Bush: You were either with him or with the terrorists.) 
 But you might think that a loyal opposition would want to pitch in and play a serious role at a time of national peril. Not by singing ''Kumbaya'' but by collaborating on possible solutions and advancing a policy debate that many Americans' lives depend on. As Raymond Moley, of F.D.R.'s brain trust, said of the cross-party effort at the harrowing start of that presidency in March 1933, Hoover and Roosevelt acolytes ''had forgotten to be Republicans or Democrats'' as they urgently tried to rescue their country.
 The current G.O.P. acts as if it -- and we -- have all the time in the world. It kept hoping in vain that the fast-waning Blago sideshow would somehow impale Obama or Rahm Emanuel. It has come perilously close to wishing aloud that a terrorist attack will materialize to discredit Obama's reversals of Bush policy on torture, military tribunals and Gitmo. The party's sole consistent ambition is to play petty politics to gum up the works. 
 If anything, the Republican Congressional leadership seems to be emulating John McCain's September stunt of ''suspending'' his campaign to ''fix'' the Wall Street meltdown. For all his bluster, McCain in the end had no fixes to offer and sat like a pet rock at the White House meeting on the crisis before capitulating to the bailout. His imitators likewise posture in public about their determination to take action, then do nothing while more and more Americans cry for help.
 The problem is not that House Republicans gave the stimulus bill zero votes last week. That's transitory political symbolism, and it had no effect on the outcome. Some of the naysayers will vote for the revised final bill anyway (and claim, Kerry-style, that they were against it before they were for it). The more disturbing problem is that the party has zero leaders and zero ideas. It is as AWOL in this disaster as the Bush administration was during Katrina. 
 If the country wasn't suffering, the Republicans' behavior would be a laugh riot. The House minority leader, John Boehner, from the economic wasteland of Ohio, declared on ''Meet the Press'' last Sunday that the G.O.P. didn't want to be ''the party of 'No' '' but ''the party of better ideas, better solutions.'' And what are those ideas, exactly? He said he'll get back to us ''over the coming months.''
 His deputy, the Virginia congressman Eric Cantor, has followed the same script, claiming that the G.O.P. will not be ''the party of 'No' '' but will someday offer unspecified ''solutions and alternatives.'' Not to be left out, the party's great white hope, Sarah Palin, unveiled a new political action committee last week with a Web site also promising ''fresh ideas.'' But as the liberal blogger Markos Moulitsas Zuniga observed, the site invites visitors to make donations and read Palin hagiography while offering no links to any ideas, fresh or otherwise.
 For its own contribution to this intellectual void, the Republican National Committee convened last week under a new banner, ''Republican for a Reason.'' Perhaps that unidentified reason will be determined by a panel of judges on a TV reality show. It had better be brilliant given that only five states (with 20 total electoral votes) now lean red in party affiliation, according to Gallup. At this rate the G.O.P. will be in Alf Landon territory by 2012. 
 The Republicans do have one idea, of course, but it's hardly fresh: more and bigger tax cuts, particularly for business and the well-off. That's the sum of their ''alternative'' stimulus plan. Obama has tried to accommodate this panacea, perhaps to a fault. Mainstream economists in both parties believe that tax cuts in the stimulus package will deliver far less bang for the buck than, say, infrastructure spending. The tax-cut stimulus embraced a year ago by the G.O.P. induced next-to-no consumer spending as Americans merely banked the savings or paid down debt.
 We also now know conclusively that the larger Bush tax cuts, besides running up record deficits and exacerbating income inequality, were also at best a placebo on our road to ruin. In a January survey of economists, including former McCain advisers like Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Mark Zandi, The Washington Post determined that the job growth the Bush administration kept bragging about (''52 straight months!'') was a mirage inflated by the housing bubble. Job growth -- about 2 percent -- was in fact the most tepid of any eight-year period ''since data collection began seven decades ago.'' Gross domestic product grew at a slower pace than in any eight years since the Truman administration.
 But even if tax cuts alone could jump-start a recovery, they couldn't do the heavy lifting that Obama has promised and the country desperately needs: a down payment on a new economy to replace our dilapidated 20th-century model and bring back long-term growth. The Republicans don't acknowledge the need for this transformation, or debate it in good conscience, preferring instead to hyperventilate over the contraceptives in a small family-planning program since removed from the stimulus bill. All it takes is the specter of condoms for the party of Vitter, Foley and Craig to go gaga. 
 The Republicans' other preoccupation remains Rush Limbaugh, who is by default becoming their de facto leader. While most Americans are fearing fear itself, G.O.P. politicians are tripping over themselves in morbid terror of Rush.
 These pratfalls commenced after Obama casually told some Republican congressmen (correctly) that they won't ''get things done'' if they take their orders from Limbaugh. That's all the stimulus the big man needed to go on a new bender of self-aggrandizement. He boasted that Obama is ''more frightened'' of him than he is of the Republican leaders in the House or Senate. He said of the new president, ''I hope he fails.'' 
 Obama no doubt finds Limbaugh's grandiosity more amusing than frightening, but G.O.P. politicians are shaking like Jell-O. When asked by Andrea Mitchell of NBC News on Wednesday if he shared Limbaugh's hope that Obama fails, Eric Cantor spun like a top before running off, as it happened, to appear on Limbaugh's radio show. Mike Pence of Indiana, No. 3 in the Republican House leadership, similarly squirmed when asked if he agreed with Limbaugh. Though the Republicans' official, poll-driven line is that they want Obama to succeed, they'd rather abandon that disingenuous nicety than cross Rush.
 Most pathetic of all was Phil Gingrey, a right-wing Republican congressman from Georgia, who mildly criticized both Limbaugh and Sean Hannity to Politico because they ''stand back and throw bricks'' while lawmakers labor in the trenches. So many called Gingrey's office to complain that the poor congressman begged Limbaugh to bring him on air to publicly recant on Wednesday. As Gingrey abjectly apologized to talk radio's commandant for his ''stupid comments'' and ''foot-in-mouth disease,'' he sounded like the inmate in a B-prison-movie cowering before the warden after a failed jailbreak. 
 ''It's up to me to hijack the Obama honeymoon,'' Limbaugh soon gloated, ''and I've done it.'' In his dreams. He has hijacked what's left of the Republican Party; the Obama honeymoon remains intact. The nightmare is that we have so irrelevant, clownish and childish an opposition party at a moment when America is in an all-hands-on-deck emergency that's as trying as war. To paraphrase a dictum that has been variously attributed to two of our most storied leaders in times of great challenge, Thomas Paine and George Patton, the Republicans should either lead, follow or get out of the grown-ups' way. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (87%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



65 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Save the Banker, Save the World

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Evidently Barack Obama knows nothing about the public good. Just witness his attacks on Citi's new jet. How else did he expect it to send executives to Davos? The president's entire criticism of bankers' exuberant ways suggests he doesn't understand they are essential to saving the world. 
 The whole apparatus sustaining the celebrated meeting of the minds atop Switzerland's magic mountain (which ends today) relies on the ethos of copious remuneration that Mr. Obama is blithely bad-mouthing. 
 Just the corporate membership fee in the World Economic Forum is the equivalent of about $37,000 a year -- and a ticket to the shindig reportedly goes for $16,000 more. A private session with ''industry leaders'' costs the equivalent of more than $220,000, according to news reports. And I hear co-chairs of the meeting, people like Rupert Murdoch, must cough up about $435,000 for the privilege. 
 One might be tempted to believe this cash merely pays for lavish do's in an extravagant setting with good skiing. But the fees enable the forum to invite less well-paid luminaries -- like presidents and prime ministers. Last year, the gathering produced some truly important ideas between business deals -- like how ''collaborative innovation'' can tackle ''the many challenges emerging as a result of shifting power equations in the world.''
 Bill Gates, Bono and a few others vowed to make 2008 ''a turning point in the fight against poverty.'' And there was Tony Blair's famous observation: ''If we are interconnected and the world is interconnected, the only way for the world to work is to have a set of common values. We have no option but to work together.'' Today, of course, poverty's corner has been turned and the nations are all pulling together as one.
 This year, the Davosmen planned to shape ''the values and leadership principles for a post-crisis world.'' They were brimming with ideas about how to address the financial crisis spawned by an orgy of bad lending without sufficient regulation or transparency. Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase exhorted America's leaders to just ''get all the right people into the room and close the door and put a solution up on the wall.'' Stephen Schwarzman, head of the Blackstone Group, a private equity powerhouse, said governments had to get out of the way and slash the amount of capital banks have to store to protect against potential losses, so they could lend more of it. 
 Who knows what might have happened if the global financial meltdown had not culled the guest list. Bob Rubin wasn't there. Nor was Larry Summers, nor a whole layer of financiers from Merrill's John Thain and Lehman's Richard Fuld to Citi's Vikram Pandit and Goldman's Lloyd Blankfein. 
 Mr. Obama should think about this the next time bankers come asking for more taxpayer money: Can we solve the world's problems without them? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); SKIING (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); JAMES DIMON (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



66 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Guidelines on Bailouts Said To Be in the Works in Europe

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS and CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank is working on guidelines to prevent bailout plans from one country from being significantly more generous than plans from another, a central bank official said Saturday. 
 The central bank official spoke on the condition of anonymity because the guidelines have not been completed.
 The new guidelines are an attempt to prevent countries from carrying out rescue plans that favor their banks over others, a tactic the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, called ''financial protectionism'' at the World Economic Forum here Saturday.
 European officials are considering more capital injections into banks in addition to buying bad assets from banks and issuing guarantees of their value. Buying or guaranteeing these assets would remove worries that the banks would be hurt further if the assets continued to lose value. But it would also raise issues of fairness if the prices paid for the assets, or the value guaranteed, appeared to be too high.
 The difficulty of determining the value of such assets was one reason the Bush administration changed course after Congress passed the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which had the government buying distressed assets from banks. Instead, the administration began investing directly in financial institutions. Now the Obama administration is considering whether to return to the original plan.
 There is also concern overseas about whether the United States, which is considering several options for a new round of bailouts, will have an advantage with its plan because of its greater access to capital markets or will push banks to restrict foreign lending in favor of lending to American companies and consumers.
 In his speech Saturday, Mr. Brown warned of a repeat of the 1930s, when nations raised tariffs to protect their own industries and damaged the world economy. But, he added, ''the bigger problem is financial protectionism.''
 Mr. Brown said he hoped the next meeting of the major economic powers would lead to an agreement on avoiding such protectionism. Some European finance officials privately questioned Mr. Brown's sincerity, saying they believed the British government had pressed the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is now majority-owned by the government, to reduce foreign lending.
 Some also say it is too late to prevent such protectionism, given the political pressure to assure that taxpayer money provides benefits for those who are putting up the cash. 
 ''It's too late to steer against this,'' said Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. He added, ''Finance ministers like their control.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



67 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Disruptive Innovation, Applied To Health Care

BYLINE: By JANET RAE-DUPREE. 
Janet Rae-Dupree writes about science and emerging technology in Silicon Valley. E-mail: unboxed @nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE health care system in America is on life support. It costs too much and saps economic vitality, achieves far too little return on investment and isn't distributed equitably. As the Obama administration tries to diagnose and treat what ails the system, however, reformers shouldn't be worried only about how to pay for it. 
 Instead, the country needs to innovate its way toward a new health care business model -- one that reduces costs yet improves both quality and accessibility. 
 Two main causes of the system's ills are century-old business models, for the general hospital and the physician's practice, both of which are based on treating illness, not promoting wellness. Hospitals and doctors are paid by insurers and the government for the health care equivalent of piecework: hospitals profit from full beds and doctors profit from repeat visits. There is no financial incentive to keep patients healthy.
 ''The business models were all created decades ago, and acute disease drove those costs at the time,'' says Steve Wunker, a senior partner at the consulting firm Innosight. ''Most businesses in this industry are looking at their business model as entirely immutable. They're looking for innovative offerings that fit this frozen model.''
 Advances in technology and medical research are making it possible to envision an entirely new health care system that provides more individualized care without necessarily increasing costs, some health care experts say. 
 For instance, genetic breakthroughs have helped reveal time and again that what we thought was one disease -- Type 2 diabetes, for instance -- actually represents a score or more of distinct illnesses, each of which responds best to a different type of therapy, according to medical professionals. 
 As researchers develop ways to define diagnoses more precisely, more effective treatments can be prescribed, says Matthew Holt, founder of the Health Care Blog and co-founder of the biannual conference Health 2.0. Ultimately, those therapies can be administered by nurse practitioners or others trained to handle routine ailments. The expensive ''intuitive medicine'' practiced by doctors trained to wade through a thicket of mysterious symptoms in search of an accurate diagnosis can then focus on those cases that truly require their services.
 Using innovation management models previously applied to other industries, Clayton M. Christensen, a Harvard Business School professor, argues in ''The Innovator's Prescription'' that the concepts behind ''disruptive innovation'' can reinvent health care. The term ''disruptive innovation,'' which he introduced in 2003, refers to an unexpected new offering that through price or quality improvements turns a market on its head. 
 Disruptive innovators in health care aim to shape a new system that provides a continuum of care focused on each individual patient's needs, instead of focusing on crises. Mr. Christensen and his co-authors argue that by putting the financial interests of hospitals and doctors at the center, the current system gives routine illnesses with proven therapies the same intensive and costly specialized care that more complicated cases require.
 ''Health care hasn't become affordable,'' he said in an interview, ''because it hasn't yet gone through disruptive decentralization.''
 It's coming, though. Some health care suppliers have set up fixed-fee integrated systems, and accept monthly payments from members in exchange for a promise of cradle-to-grave health care. Each usually also charges a small co-payment for treatment. Routine cases are handled through lower-cost facilities, leaving more complicated cases to higher-cost hospitals and specialists. Such systems include Kaiser Permanente, Intermountain Healthcare in Utah, the Mayo Clinic, the Geisinger Health System in Pennsylvania and the Veterans Health Administration. 
 By creating a continuum of care that follows patients wherever they go within an integrated system, says the Princeton University economist Uwe Reinhardt, care providers can stay on top of what preventive measures and therapies are most effective. Tests aren't needlessly duplicated, competing medications aren't prescribed by different doctors, and everyone knows what therapies a patient has received. As a result, integrated systems like Kaiser's provide 22 percent greater cost efficiency than competing systems, according to a 2007 study by Hewitt Associates. 
 Kaiser's system, in particular, has proved the benefits of an integrated system, Mr. Reinhardt says. ''It is much cheaper than pay-for-service systems, because they have absolutely no incentive to overtreat you, but they have every incentive to keep you healthy,'' he says. ''Kaiser still makes mistakes -- any large system does -- but their facilities always come out ahead in every service quality survey I've reviewed.'' 
 At Kaiser, experimentation with new technologies and business models occurs at the Sidney R. Garfield Health Care Innovation Center in San Leandro, Calif. Kaiser opened the facility in 2006 to test such new technologies as a videoconferencing system linking health care professionals to patients in their homes. Another is a laser-projected keyboard to prevent the spread of germs via computer equipment.
 The Stanford economist Alain C. Enthoven, who has been studying the nation's health care system for more than 30 years, said integrated systems ''are the disruptive innovation we need to turn loose on the rest of America.'' In a recent report for the Committee for Economic Development, Mr. Enthoven advocates letting consumers choose between traditional fee-for-service plans and less expensive integrated systems, then letting consumers pocket the difference in premiums. ''Medicine is a complicated team sport,'' he notes. ''It takes an integrated system to keep the patient at the center of it.''
 DR. JOHN H. COCHRAN, who as executive director of the Permanente Foundation is the highest-ranking physician among Kaiser's 14,000-plus doctors, says information technology will play a crucial role in revolutionizing the country's health care system.
 ''There's a mythology that I.T. decreases the personal relationship between the physician and the patient,'' he said. ''In point of fact, it enhances it.'' 
 Bringing business school concepts to bear on health care simply makes sense, Dr. Cochran says.
 ''We have a financial, macroeconomic, multinational crisis right now that can be paralytic or catalytic,'' he said. ''Let's make sure we're a catalyst.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A laser keyboard could be used in spaces too small for a conventional one and might help prevent the spread of infection among hospital workers.
Dr. Yan Chow, a pediatrician with Kaiser, demonstrates a videoconferencing system that would allow doctors to speak with patients in their homes.
 Ann O'Brien of Kaiser Permanente uses a touch-screen tablet computer in San Leandro, Calif. The computer can help streamline distribution of medicines.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (93%); HOSPITALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); DIABETES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); INSURANCE (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



68 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Reinvention or Recovery?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Obama and Congress barrel toward the latest emergency program to resuscitate the American economy, one question is looming over their search for a cure: Can the government fashion a fast and efficient economic stimulus while also seizing the moment to remake America?
 For now, Mr. Obama and his aides are insisting they can accomplish both goals, following their mantra of using the urgency of the economic crisis to accomplish larger -- and long-delayed -- reforms that never garnered sufficient votes in ordinary times.
 In fact, at various times in American history, moments like this one have been used for big programs, from integrating the armed forces to creating Social Security and, later, Medicare. So it is little wonder that everyone with a big, stalled, transformative project -- green energy programs, broadband networks that reach into rural America, health insurance for the newly unemployed or uninsured -- is citing the precedent of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and declaring that a new New Deal is overdue. 
 But the question that the Senate will begin debating Monday is whether grand ambitions are getting in the way of pulling the country out of a nose dive. And so for every comparison of this moment to Roosevelt's first hundred days, there are warnings that much of his social experimentation did not have a big impact on America's economic recovery, which took years. 
 ''When you are filling a hole this big and adding to America's debt on such a large scale, you need to make sure every dollar is aimed for the economic boost you need,'' said Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard economist who warned more than a year ago that the United States economy was about to be hit between the eyes. 
 Mr. Feldstein has provided the economic arguments behind Republican objections that Mr. Obama is starting a long-term expansion of government, after decades in which the United States has relied on market solutions and encouraged nations around the world to do the same. 
 The economic arguments mask, for some, a primal fear that this is 1933 all over again, the beginning of a 21st century liberal resurgence.
 The comparisons to 1933 are sure to resound even louder in the next week. Much as Roosevelt imposed a ''bank holiday'' in his first days in office to stop the run on American financial institutions, Mr. Obama promised in his weekly address to the nation on Saturday that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner would soon announce ''a new strategy for reviving our financial system that gets credit flowing to businesses and families.'' 
 That is bound to revive the question of whether anything short of nationalizing some of America's biggest banks, even briefly, can get the job done.
 Taken together, the economic stimulus plan and the banking bailout have quickly melded into a bitter political and ideological clash, barely two weeks into the Obama presidency.
 Some of what is going on might best be called a classic case of pent-up demand -- demand by Democrats for the kinds of programs that they could never get passed during the Bush years. 
 After years of battling with a White House that questioned the science behind global warming, Democratic lawmakers see a chance to begin programs aimed at environmental protection, using economic justifications for efforts like developing low-emission cars. And with a Democrat in the White House, they also see an opening to push for increased spending on education. 
 The efforts are fueled by a liberal base that supported Mr. Obama's promise that he would tackle the biggest issues. That same base is concerned that the long slog ahead will force a delay or an abandonment of those ambitions. 
 As a result, there is $54 billion in the House bill for new forms of ''American energy,'' a phrase with an air of nationalism, along with a series of ''Buy America'' requirements of dubious legality under trade treaties; $141 billion for education; $24 billion for lowering health care costs; and $6 billion for broadband service, the digital equivalent of Lyndon B. Johnson electrifying the Hill Country in Texas. 
 (Some critics of that effort say it is pitifully small, too small to fulfill Mr. Obama's campaign promise that all Americans should enjoy ''the highest form of broadband access.'')
 To those who argue that many of the programs will take years to get rolling, their advocates have replied, ''So what?'' 
 ''It's not as if we can just fix what's wrong and go back to normal,'' said James K. Galbraith, an economist at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs in Austin. ''Can you overdo? Maybe, but it's easier to pull back later than to make up for the fact that you did too little.''
 But the result is that a piece of ''emergency'' legislation that would spend heavily to stanch the killing of jobs is now transforming into a series of long-term commitments that are sure to add enormously to the national debt, and keep adding to it long after the Panic of 2008 and the recession -- or worse -- that it set off are consigned to history.
 Republicans see a chance to do something they could do only quietly, and rarely, until President George W. Bush flew out of the city 11 days ago: protest huge deficit spending. Now, they are freer to complain -- as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky did on Saturday in the Republican response to Mr. Obama's address, when he argued that ''permanent spending would be expanded by about $240 billion'' in the House, which would ''lock in bigger and bigger deficits every year.'' 
 (Mr. McConnell was less vocal in his opposition when President Bush declared that the combination of 9/11, a downturn and the expansion of the military budget required deficit spending.)
 The Republicans have been joined by a small band of Democratic fiscal conservatives whose message does not seem to match the party's mood. 
 ''Because we're doing this outside the budget process, it means no one has to talk about what the long-term effects of any of this might be,'' said Alice M. Rivlin, an economist at the Brookings Institution and a former member of the Federal Reserve, who supports a major stimulus package. She testified recently in Congress about the need to separate short-term economic stimulus from a broader agenda -- which embraces everything from fixing America's schools to improving health care for children. 
 ''We seem to be counting on the Chinese to keep investing to pay for this,'' Ms. Rivlin said, referring to the huge amount of United States government debt held by China, ''and we're assuming that the rest of the world isn't going to lose confidence once we use this moment to spend on a whole range of programs. And I'm just not sure that's the right assumption.''
 Ms. Rivlin raises what may turn out to be the most urgent question of all in a few months.
 When Roosevelt took America down new roads, he financed it at home. Mr. Obama does not have that luxury: He must persuade not only Congress and the public but also world financial markets, which must decide whether -- and at what interest rate -- they are willing to finance his plan. 
 That is the three-dimensional chess game the administration must play as it tries to mount the biggest economic rescue plan in more than seven decades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BANK FAILURES (73%); HISTORY (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); BROADBAND (54%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



69 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CONGRESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Scenes From the 'Disaster' Jan. 25-31

 BODY:
THE NEWSPresident Obama's proposed $819 billion economic stimulus plan passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Though the president met on Capitol Hill with the entire House G.O.P., led by John A. Boehner, above, and made other overtures, not a single Republican voted for it; 11 Democrats also voted no. The main disagreement was over the balance between tax cuts and spending provisions; Republicans offered a plan that was almost entirely made up of tax cuts. Looming divisions between Senate and House Democrats over Medicaid funding, the alternative minimum tax and other issues threatened to snarl the bill. 
 THE NEWS Ford Motor Company reported on Thursday that it had lost $5.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $14.6 billion for the year, the worst showing in its 105-year history.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Even so, Ford says it has enough cash to get through a tough 2009 without a government bailout, provided that neither of its weaker rivals, General Motors and Chrysler, files for bankruptcy; both are scrambling to overhaul themselves while being kept afloat by emergency loans from the Treasury. Ford's red ink joined a growing tide of bad news from iconic American companies like Boeing and Starbucks, which announced store closings and layoffs after sales fell sharply. 
 THE NEWS In speeches at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Premier Wen Jiabao of China, above, blamed the United States for the global recession. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The leaders of the two largest formerly Communist economies had harsh words for Western capitalists. Mr. Putin decried a system where one country ''prints money without respite and consumes material wealth'' while another (China) pumps out cheap exports and piles up the money America prints; Mr. Wen decried ''inappropriate macroeconomic policies,'' ''blind pursuit of profit'' and regulatory failures in the United States.
 THE NEWS President Obama called Wall Street bankers ''shameful'' for taking an estimated $18.4 billion in bonuses in 2008 even as their firms were racking up immense losses and the Treasury was putting up billions to bail them out.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Some on Wall Street say the bonuses, disclosed by the New York State comptroller, are essential to retain top talent. But public anger has been building over reports of extravagance. Citigroup was embarrassed into canceling delivery of a $42 million corporate jet. And John A. Thain, former head of Merrill Lynch, said he would pay the cost of a six-figure office remodel -- which included an $87,000 rug -- after a cascade of bad press. 
 THE NEWS The economy shrank at a 3.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2008, the sharpest contraction in 26 years, as consumer spending and business investment both went into hibernation, the Commerce Department reported on Friday.
 BEHIND THE NEWS As bad as the figures were, they understated the trouble. Orders for goods fell even more sharply than shipments, while inventories piled up, suggesting that companies simply failed to cut production fast enough to match falling sales, and will have to cut even further this quarter. President Obama called the economic contraction a ''continuing disaster'' and called again for swift action on the stimulus plan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MICHEL EULER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
POOL PHOTO BY RON SACHS
 TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MEDICAID (70%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); BOEING CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JOHN THAIN (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



70 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Don't Look Back

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
History demands itssacrifices, which is why more than a million of us endured numbing cold -- on the Capitol steps, on the Mall, even in the far distant shadow of Lincoln's towering marble frame -- to see Barack Obama recite the oath of office. That Obama's swearing-in was historic seemed beyond dispute. Just what sort of history we were witnessing, however -- that is, what chapter from our past it most faithfully echoed -- was more a matter of personal interpretation. For some, Obama arrived in Washington as the modern analogue to Franklin D. Roosevelt, the soon-to-be architect of a radical plan to save the economy. For others, especially those of the '60s generation, Obama brought back memories of the young John F. Kennedy. Obama himself left little doubt about his own historical pretensions. He traveled in triumph to the capital by rail, as Abraham Lincoln did, and rested his hand on the Great Emancipator's Bible. The clear implication was that closing the cultural breach in American politics would take much the same forbearance that Lincoln needed to reconcile a divided nation. 
 No American president since Kennedy . . . or maybe Roosevelt . . . or perhaps Lincoln . . . has inspired such a tide of historical comparisons. Obama is a walking analogy; if he were a punctuation mark, he'd be a colon. In part, this is a reflection of the culture. Whether in best-selling books, movies or miniseries, ours is a country obsessed these days with retracing its tracks. As Obama eloquently pointed out in his inaugural speech, the nation is plagued by ''a nagging fear that America's decline is inevitable''; it is comforting, perhaps, to imagine that our own moment is as portentous as those that came before, and that we might be able to summon the same kind of transcendent leadership. 
 There is some merit in just about every historical allusion you could be tempted to make regarding Obama (and I have certainly written my share). Which analogy fits best depends largely on which of two overlapping story lines you're more inclined to embrace. First, there is Obama as crisis president -- the kind of leader who emerges at a dire moment and rallies the nation to prevail. This is what the Lincoln buffs and the F.D.R. boosters see when they hark back to 1861 and 1933, moments when earlier generations of Americans faced existential tests and ultimately surmounted them. A second set of armchair historians, meanwhile, subscribe more to Obama as cultural icon, the type of president who by his very existence denotes a new social order. This is how we remember John Kennedy -- not so much as an ardent cold warrior (though he was) or as a fiscal moderate (though he was that too) but as a transformer of the culture, a youthful renewer of the American spirit. As Obama spoke to the multiracial, geographically disparate swell of Americans on the Mall, hatless and poised as his breath rose in a mist, it was hard not to see him in this same vein.
 The danger in so relentlessly referencing historical markers, however, is that they can trick us into looking backward over our shoulders when we ought to be focused on the unpredictable path ahead. Whatever Obama may have to learn from Roosevelt, for instance, he would be ill served to compare too literally our challenges to those of the Great Depression -- and so would we. As Jonathan Alter noted in ''The Defining Moment,'' his account of Roosevelt's transition, by the time F.D.R. assumed office in 1933, stock values had dropped 75 percent in four years and national income had been slashed by more than half. A quarter of the American work force was unemployed. That's economic calamity on a scale the current crisis, however grave, hasn't yet approached. 
 Such facile comparisons between one moment and another inevitably lead to policy prescriptions that are stuck in the past. If Obama is just like F.D.R., and if our time is just like the Great Depression, then why can't we solve the whole problem with a new New Deal that includes lots of money for building new bridges and tunnels? (One reason: unemployment isn't actually the problem now.) Worse yet, we begin to forge a kind of moral equivalency with the past to which we're not entitled. We begin to feel and talk as if we are enduring the depression that forged one of America's bravest and most accomplished generations, when really we have no idea of the hardships that made those Americans and the country more responsible and more resolute. 
 If there is an especially useful historical parallel for what Obama seeks to achieve in these early weeks, it may not be Roosevelt or Kennedy or Lincoln, but Ronald Reagan. Elected at a time of economic despair, when shaken Americans worried about the vulnerability of hostages and the ascension of tyranny, Reagan understood the need not only to address the anxiety in American life but also to explain it. In the presidential campaign, Reagan told a story about the moral and intellectual failings that had led up to Jimmy Carter's infamous ''malaise'' -- and while the truth of that story would be rightly debated for years to come, it nonetheless helped him win broad support for his agenda. Speaking to the nation from the Capitol terrace, Obama handed up his own powerful indictment of a generation of American leaders whose ''collective failure to make hard choices'' had imperiled the nation's economic health; it was time, the young president lectured, to heed the Scripture and ''set aside childish things.'' 
 This is the kind of rhetoric that even some of Obama's allies might find insulting, but like Reagan, Obama seems to understand that in order to lead people out of crisis, you first have to make clear how they got there. History demands its sacrifices -- and also its unpleasant truths. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN HYERS AND WILLIAM MEBANE) CHART: No Depression?: Change in gross domestic product in selected election years(Source for 1932-80: Bureau of Economic Analysis Source for 2008 estimate: National Association for Business Economics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISTORY (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



71 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Toward a More Secure Retirement

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''From Here to Retirement'' (editorial, Jan. 26):
 The financial crisis and the decision by some companies to cut matching contributions to their 401(k) plans highlight the need to think anew about how Americans achieve lifetime financial security and the mechanisms in place to help them do so. The 401(k) plans upon which most workers now rely were never conceived as a holistic retirement system.
 What is needed is a retirement system that combines the best of portable, individually owned accounts with guarantees to help make sure that individuals do not outlive their savings. The system would automatically enroll workers, tie savings increases to raises, include provisions for health care needs, offer objective investment advice to help them plan, and assure a lifelong income base by automatically converting some of their savings to a low-cost annuity at retirement. 
 Such protections, while not shielding individuals from investment risk, would significantly bolster Americans' economic security.
 Roger W. Ferguson Jr. New York, Jan. 26, 2009
 The writer is president and chief executive of TIAA-CREF, which manages retirement savings on behalf of 3.6 million individuals and 15,000 institutions, and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He is a member of President Obama's Transition Economic Advisory Board.
 To the Editor: 
 ''From Here to Retirement'' correctly assesses the failure of the 401(k) revolution to help workers accumulate adequate funds for their retirements. Your recommended solutions to the Obama administration, however, miss the target. 
 As one who has long been involved with retirement plans as a consultant to large employers, I have seen 401(k)'s morph from their intended role as supplements to traditional pension plans to become the primary retirement vehicle for most American workers. Your reference to the need for 401(k) improvements and new savings accounts with shared risks overlooks the more pressing need for a retirement plan that will provide guaranteed lifelong income that keeps pace with inflation. 
 Such a retirement plan has existed for over 70 years: Social Security. As 401(k)'s have tanked and private pensions vanished, Social Security remains the only reliable plan for future retirees and their families. Federal dollars will be much better spent enhancing Social Security, especially for lower-income Americans, than subsidizing new forms of individual savings that have proved ineffective.
 William J. Arnone New York, Jan. 26, 2009 
 To the Editor: 
 Your editorial portrays the ''grim reality'' facing retirees: an uncertain financial market, inadequate savings and employer contributions, shift of all risks to workers (investment, longevity) and so on. And the solutions are unsatisfactorily focused on patching up existing arrangements. 
 Fortunately, a superb answer is available: Simply expand Social Security to provide a benefit to replace 70 percent of average pay rather than the current 41 percent. 
 Consider: It's already set up as a national plan, does not depend on anyone's investment acumen, avoids financial chicanery, has expenses that are ridiculously low, provides longevity and cost-of-living guarantees, and has built-in job portability.
 And the increase in cost may be surprisingly small; it will be offset by many factors, including raising the taxable wage base, use of a large part of the current $2.4 trillion surplus, and folding in the assets of existing plans by a reasonable trade-off. Definitely worth thinking about.
 David Langer New York, Jan. 27, 2009
 The writer is a consulting actuary.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial recommended ''helping people manage their retirement withdrawals so that the money lasts a lifetime.'' But mandatory minimum withdrawals forbid that. While the life expectancy tables that the government uses ensure that a retiree will not run out, if she lives past 85 she will not have enough to live on either. 
 Mandatory minimum withdrawals should be eliminated or, at the very least, drastically reduced.
 Bernice G. Rosenthal New York, Jan. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''From Here to Retirement'' was right to point out the damage done to people with retirement plans who are unluckily approaching retirement now.
 A point not touched on was the even more serious situation facing the millions who may have been decently employed for years, but who were laid off their principal jobs after age 50. Because employers have been tacitly licensed to discriminate against older workers, most can expect little chance of re-employment in a job with a retirement plan, or even at a wage sufficient to permit any savings.
 Many must make do for years with inadequate self-employment, underemployment, or worse. When they reach retirement age, their savings, home equity and other resources will already be depleted or gone. In the face of this catastrophe, these workers have typically been counseled to cope by downsizing their employment expectations -- which is the opposite of a solution.
 There seems to be no political attention, or even much social research, directed toward this pressing issue. The problem seems invisible now, but soon America is going to be trying to figure out how to cope with the plight of millions of baby boomers trying to live on nothing but Social Security checks.
 Stephen Lathrop Hull, Mass., Jan. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Plummeting unrealized 401(k) account balances make great headlines. And they provide a platform for critics of these plans to condemn them. But the media and government policy makers should realize that these plans are caught in the same financial crisis that has paralyzed business and financial organizations throughout the world. 
 Participants in 401(k) plans have suffered along with everyone else. Working in partnership with employers, participants can successfully manage normal market risks and cycles and accumulate ample assets for retirement. But they cannot succeed without efficient and transparent capital markets. 
 The drop in 401(k) account balances in 2008 was not caused by a defect in the 401(k) system or by ignorant participants. Inadequate enforcement, reckless conduct and unethical behavior in the capital markets are the problem, not 401(k) plans.
 Policy makers should direct their efforts to ensuring that a similar market collapse never again occurs. Plan participants, as well as all other investors, will then be able to move confidently forward, knowing that saving and investing for the long term will pay off as expected.
 Edward Ferrigno Washington, Jan. 26, 2009
 The writer is vice president, Washington Affairs, Profit-Sharing/401k Council of America.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



72 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Geithner to Unveil Plan to Revive Credit Flow and Monitor Banks' Aid Use

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will soon announce a new strategy for reviving the country's financial system while making sure that banking executives do not misuse federal money meant to assist their companies, President Obama said Saturday in his weekly address. 
 The president said the goal of the strategy would be to get credit flowing again to families and businesses. ''We'll help lower mortgage costs and extend loans to small businesses so they can create jobs,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 The administration, the president said, would ensure that chief executives ''are not draining funds that should be advancing our recovery,'' and that assistance to the financial system would be accompanied by ''unprecedented transparency, rigorous oversight and clear accountability, so taxpayers know how their money is being spent and whether it is achieving results.'' 
 Administration officials have said that restrictions on executive pay at companies benefiting from the rescue program may be announced this week. Later, perhaps next week, revisions in the program will be announced under which the most toxic assets of the banks will be bought up or guaranteed, so that the institutions will have incentives to unclog the credit streams.
 The president said that although the $700 billion rescue plan enacted late last year helped stave off a collapse of the financial system, ''many are frustrated by the results -- and rightfully so.''
 ''Too often, taxpayer dollars have been spent without transparency or accountability,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Banks have been extended a hand, but homeowners, students and small businesses that need loans have been left to fend on their own.''
 Moreover, Mr. Obama said, ''we learned this week that even as they petitioned for taxpayer assistance, Wall Street firms shamefully paid out nearly $20 billion in bonuses for 2008.'' Americans will not tolerate ''such arrogance and greed,'' the president said.
 Lawmakers have complained that although roughly half of the money in the rescue plan has been spent, its effects have not yet been felt. The Troubled Asset Relief Program was supposed to be used to buy up the banks' troubled mortgage-related assets. But the Bush administration's Treasury Department shifted gears, using the program instead to shore up the banks by injecting them with capital.
 But instead of being inspired to lend more, too many banks hoarded their new capital, critics of the financial industry say. Then came the recent revelations that some elite Wall Street bankers had been given bonuses far greater than what most Americans earn in a lifetime.
 Mr. Geithner is expected to be questioned extensively when he appears before the Senate banking committee on Feb. 10 to talk about the rescue plan, and when he appears soon afterward before the House Financial Services Committee. The House panel's chairman, Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, has long been a critic of what he considers excessive pay for top executives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner, center, at a Senate hearing last month. He is working on a new rescue plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BAILOUT BONUSES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); JOB CREATION (70%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



73 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Clean Air in California

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''New Day on Climate Change'' (editorial, Jan. 27): 
 The new administration is both figuratively and literally a breath of fresh air. But as President Obama begins to undo the damage done over the last eight years, environmental rollbacks in Sacramento threaten to undo the good news from Washington.
 Just as Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger asks President Obama to grant California a waiver to require cleaner vehicles, he is demanding that environmental review be lifted from 10 big highway projects that ultimately could increase greenhouse gas emissions -- and he's doing it because he wants them considered in Mr. Obama's stimulus package.
 I hope Mr. Obama informs our governor that he will not sacrifice environmental laws to allow highway projects to be ''shovel ready.''
 Irvin Dawid Palo Alto, Calif., Jan. 27, 2009
 The writer is chairman of the Air Quality Committee of Sierra Club California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009



74 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: WELFARE SYSTEM FAILING TO GROW AS ECONOMY LAGS

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite soaring unemployment and the worst economic crisis in decades, 18 states cut their welfare rolls last year, and nationally the number of people receiving cash assistance remained at or near the lowest in more than 40 years.
The trends, based on an analysis of new state data collected by The New York Times, raise questions about how well a revamped welfare system with great state discretion is responding to growing hardships.
Michigan cut its welfare rolls 13 percent, though it was one of two states whose October unemployment rate topped 9 percent. Rhode Island, the other, had the nation's largest welfare decline, 17 percent.
Of the 12 states where joblessness grew most rapidly, eight reduced or kept constant the number of people receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the main cash welfare program for families with children. Nationally, for the 12 months ending October 2008, the rolls inched up a fraction of 1 percent. 
The deepening recession offers a fresh challenge to the program, which was passed by a Republican Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996 amid bitter protest and became one of the most closely watched social experiments in modern memory.
The program, which mostly serves single mothers, ended a 60-year-old entitlement to cash aid, replacing it with time limits and work requirements, and giving states latitude to discourage people from joining the welfare rolls. While it was widely praised in the boom years that followed, skeptics warned it would fail the needy when times turned tough.
Supporters of the program say the flat caseloads may reflect a lag between the loss of a job and the decision to seek help. They also say the recession may have initially spared the low-skilled jobs that many poor people take.
But critics argue that years of pressure to cut the welfare rolls has left an obstacle-ridden program that chases off the poor, even when times are difficult.
Even some of the program's staunchest defenders are alarmed.
''There is ample reason to be concerned here,'' said Ron Haskins, a former Republican Congressional aide who helped write the 1996 law overhauling the welfare system. ''The overall structure is not working the way it was designed to work. We would expect, just on the face it, that when a deep recession happens, people could go back on welfare.''
''When we started this, Democratic and Republican governors alike said, 'We know what's best for our state; we're not going to let people starve,' '' said Mr. Haskins, who is now a researcher at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''And now that the chips are down, and unemployment is going up, most states are not doing enough to help families get back on the rolls.''
The program's structure -- fixed federal financing, despite caseload size -- may discourage states from helping more people because the states bear all of the increased costs. By contrast, the federal government pays virtually all food-stamp costs, and last year every state expanded its food-stamp rolls; nationally, the food program grew 12 percent.
The clashing trends in some states -- more food stamps, but less cash aid -- suggest a safety net at odds with itself. Georgia shrank the cash welfare rolls by nearly 11 percent and expanded food stamps by 17 percent. After years of pushing reductions, Congress is now considering a rare plan that would subsidize expansions of the cash welfare rolls. The economic stimulus bills pending in Congress would provide matching grants -- estimated at $2.5 billion over two years -- to states with caseload expansions.
Born from Mr. Clinton's pledge to ''end welfare as we know it,'' the new program brought furious protests from people who predicted the poor would suffer. Then millions of people quickly left the rolls, employment rates rose and child poverty plunged.
But the economy of the late 1990s was unusually strong, and even then critics warned that officials placed too much stress on caseload reduction. With benefits harder to get, a small but growing share of families was left with neither welfare nor work and fell deeper into destitution.
''TANF is not an especially attractive option for most people,'' said Linda Blanchette, a top welfare official in Pennsylvania, which cut its rolls last year by 6 percent. ''People really do view it as a last resort.''
The data collected by The Times is the most recent available for every state and includes some similar programs financed solely by states, to give the broadest picture of cash aid. In a year when 1.1 million jobs disappeared, 18 states cut the rolls, 20 states expanded them, and caseloads in 12 states remained essentially flat, fluctuating less than 3 percent. (In addition, caseloads in the District of Columbia rose by nearly 5 percent.)
The rolls rose 7 percent in the West, stayed flat in the South, and fell in the Northeast by 4 percent and Midwest by 5 percent.
Seven states increased their rolls by double digits. Five states, including Texas and Michigan, made double-digit reductions. Of the 10 states with the highest child poverty rates, eight kept caseloads level or further reduced the rolls.
''This is evidence of a strikingly unresponsive system,'' said Mark H. Greenberg, co-director of a poverty institute at the Georgetown University law school. Some administrators disagree.
''We're still putting people to work,'' said Larry Temple, who runs the job placement program for welfare recipients in Texas, where the rolls dropped 15 percent. ''A lot of the occupations that historically we've been able to put the welfare people in are still hiring. Home health is a big one.''
Though some welfare recipients continue to find jobs, nationally their prospects have worsened. Joblessness among women ages 20 to 24 without a high school degree rose to 23.9 percent last year, from 17.9 percent the year before, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Some analysts offer a different reason for the Texas caseload declines: a policy that quickly halts all cash aid to recipients who fail to attend work programs.
''We're really just pushing families off the program,'' said Celia Hagert of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a research and advocacy group in Austin, Tex.
Some officials predict the rolls will yet rise. ''There's typically a one- to two-year lag between an economic downturn and an uptick in the welfare rolls,'' said David Hansell, who oversees the program in New York State, where the rolls fell 4 percent.
Indeed, as the recession has worsened in recent months, some states' rolls have just started to grow. Georgia's caseload fell until July 2008, but has since risen 5 percent. Still, as of October the national caseloads remained down 70 percent from their peak in the early 1990s under the predecessor program, Aid to Families with Dependent Children.
Nationally, caseloads fell every year from 1994 to 2007, to about 4.1 million people, a level last seen in 1964. The federal total for 2008 has not been published, but the Times analysis of state data suggests they remained essentially flat.
Some recent caseload reduction has been driven by a 2006 law that required states to place more recipients in work programs, which can be costly and difficult to run. It threatened states with stiff fines but eased the targets for states that simply cut the rolls.
''Some states decided they had to get tougher,'' said Sharon Parrott of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research and advocacy group.
Rhode Island was among them. Previously, the state had reduced but not eliminated grants to families in which an adult had hit a 60-month limit. Last year, it closed those cases, removing 2,200 children from the rolls.
Under the new federal accounting rules, that made it easier to meet statistical goals and protected the state from fines.
Michigan also imposed new restrictions, forcing applicants to spend a month in a job-search program before collecting benefits. Critics say the up-front requirement poses obstacles to the neediest applicants, like those with physical or mental illnesses.
''I think that's a legitimate complaint,'' said Ismael Ahmed, director of the Michigan Department of Human Services, though he blamed the federal rules. The program ''was drawn for an economy that is not the economy most states are in.''
While food stamps usually grow faster than cash aid during recessions, the current contrast is stark. Many officials see cash aid in a negative light, as a form of dependency, while encouraging the use of food stamps and calling them nutritional support.
''Food assistance is not considered welfare,'' said Donalda Carlson, a Rhode Island welfare administrator.
Nationally, the temporary assistance program gives states $16.8 billion a year -- the same amount they received in the early 1990s, when caseloads were more than three times as high as they are now. Mr. Haskins, the program's architect, said that obliged them to ensure the needy could return to the rolls. ''States have plenty of money,'' he said.
But most states have shifted the money into other programs -- including child care and child welfare -- and say they cannot shift it back without causing other problems.
Oregon expanded its cash caseload 19 percent last year, so far without major backlash. ''That's the purpose of the program -- to be there for that need,'' said Vic Todd, a senior state official. But California officials expressed ambivalence about a 6 percent rise in the cash welfare rolls in that state when it is facing a $40 billion deficit. ''There's some fine tuning of the program that needs to occur, to incentivize work,'' said John Wagner, the state director of social services.
Among those sanguine about current caseload trends is Robert Rector, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation in Washington who is influential with conservative policy makers. He said the program had ''reduced poverty beyond anyone's expectations'' and efforts to dilute its rigor would only harm the poor.
''We need to continue with the principle that you give assistance willingly, but you require the individual to prepare for self-sufficiency,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michigan cut welfare rolls 13 percent despite the fact that its October unemployment rate topped 9 percent. An office cubicle at the welfare agency in Detroit.
Unemployment applicants waiting at the Wayne County office of the welfare services division. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) GRAPHICS: SHIFT IN ASSISTANCE: Cash welfare assistance has been cut in 18 states, raising questions about the program's ability to respond to rising unemployment during hard times. By contrast, the number of recipients of the food stamp program grew in all states. (Source: State welfare offices
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



75 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 689 words

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON

 BODY:
Making the Best
Of Bad Banks
How can a bad bank be good? That's the question the governments of the United States, Germany and Britain are wrestling with as they move to clean up the balance sheets of their financial institutions.
All three are close to adopting ''bad bank'' solutions. The Obama administration may come out with its plan as soon as this week. Such measures could draw a line under the global banking crisis, but only if they are properly structured. 
The rationale behind the plan is that some banks are so clogged with toxic assets that nobody has confidence in their balance sheets, not even the bankers themselves. That's leading some banks to become so cautious that they aren't lending. Creating bad banks to house these assets will allow the good banks to function more effectively.
This, indeed, was the idea behind the Bush administration's Troubled Asset Relief Program last September. But it was flawed because inadequate thought was given to how the good banks would be recapitalized. Insofar as the topic was addressed, the idea was for the government to refill bank coffers by buying assets at inflated prices. This thoroughly bad notion, which would have involved a big subsidy by taxpayers, was rightly shot down.
Plan B, pioneered by Britain and then followed in the United States and elsewhere last October, involved addressing the capital shortage directly. In return for pumping in capital, governments got ownership stakes in the banks, often nonvoting preferred stock.
But this plan didn't provide enough of a cushion for a really awful situation. And since October, conditions have deteriorated. That's why the bad bank idea has come back into vogue -- this time, with a twist. While some people still advocate buying toxic assets outright from banks, governments are tilting toward providing banks with insurance policies in case their portfolios suffer catastrophic losses.
The Federal Reserve pioneered the idea with its November bailout of Citigroup. Prime Minister Gordon Brown has since announced the outline of such a plan for Britain's banks and Germany is reportedly looking to follow suit. Timothy F. Geithner, the Obama administration's new man at Treasury, is now close to introducing a comprehensive plan on these lines -- though it may also combine it with outright purchases of the most toxic assets.
Whatever version of bad bank is used, the same problems that bedeviled the Bush administration's plan still need to be addressed. First, assets shouldn't be insured (or bought) at deliberately inflated prices. That is just a straight handout from taxpayers to bank shareholders.
Second, banks should pay a reasonable price for their insurance policy. Third, if they don't have enough capital to pay for such insurance, they may still need further capital injections.
In addition to creating bad banks, governments should change the global rules that determine how much capital banks have to hold. The current Basel accord encourages banks to lend with abandon in the good times and slam on the brakes in bad times.
A simple solution is for the authorities to raise minimum capital requirements when they see credit growing too strongly -- and to lower them, as at present, when credit is shrinking. In regulators' argot, this would be an ''anticyclical'' framework.
Britain has already given a nod in this direction, as did Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, at the World Economic Forum in Davos last week.
New capital rules alone will not stop banks from hoarding money. If the authorities say lower capital ratios are now allowed, investors and credit ratings agencies might still want banks to hold fatter cushions.
But using a combination of bad banks and new anticyclical capital rules could do the trick. Investors and ratings agencies would be better able to quantify each bank's maximum exposure and compare that with its minimum capital requirement. Provided there was still a buffer, credit could start flowing and banks could start serving the economy once more. HUGO DIXON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gordon Brown 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); PREFERRED STOCK (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011



76 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
TOLL IN KENYA EXPLOSION
Rises Above 100
The death toll rose to more than 100 people after an overturned gasoline tanker exploded on a Kenyan highway as looters tried to scoop up the spilled fuel, officials said. The explosion, on Saturday night, was the second deadly inferno in Kenya in a week. The high death tolls seem to have been made worse by a mix of crime, poverty and lax law enforcement. PAGE A5
IDLING FACTORIES IN RUSSIA'S DETROIT
Tens of thousands of factory workers in Ulyanovsk, long the heart of Russia's automotive industry, have been told to stay home. The city's troubles are symptomatic of a broader economic distress that has gripped once-thriving provincial centers, and that could confront the Kremlin with the first major challenge to its authority since Vladimir V. Putin came to power. PAGE A5 
ICELAND NAMES PREMIER
With the swearing-in of Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir, Iceland became the first country to change its government as a direct result of the global financial crisis. Ms. Sigurdardottir, the first woman to serve as prime minister, also appears to be the modern world's first openly gay head of government. PAGE A6
SHELLING AT SRI LANKAN HOSPITAL
Three artillery shell attacks struck a Sri Lanka hospital overflowing with wounded patients, the last of them hitting a ward of women and children, according to international agencies and health workers. At least seven people died in the first two attacks and an unknown number in the last, with workers still counting the bodies on Monday. PAGE A6
SUDAN ASKS U.N. TO LEAVE A TOWN
Sudanese officials asked international peacekeepers to leave a rebel-held town in Darfur in advance of a possible military attack, the United Nations and Sudanese officials said. The request represents a challenge to the United Nations' effort to prevent fighting in Darfur, and it is the first time the Sudanese have asked international peacekeepers to leave a specific place in the troubled region. PAGE A7
15 DIE IN BLAZE IN EASTERN CHINA
Fireworks set off a blaze in a restaurant and bar in eastern China on Saturday night, killing at least 15 people and injuring at least 22 others, according to state-run news outlets. PAGE A8
RUSSIAN CHURCH INSTALLS PATRIARCH
The Russian Orthodox Church enthroned the 16th patriarch, the first to be elected since the fall of the Soviet Union, in an elaborate ceremony. As evidence of the changing relationship between church and state, President Dmitri A. Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin attended the service. PAGE A8
NATIONAL
This Land
Traces of a Murder
Although most murders fade quickly from collective memory, every now and then one lingers in the public consciousness. So it was with the murder of Ellen Smith, 115 years ago, which stayed with the people of Winston-Salem, N.C., long after both killer and victim were committed to long-forgotten graves, Dan Barry writes. PAGE A9
CHOOSING NOT TO IRRADIATE FOODS
Before the latest round of peanut butter scares, the nation's food industry asked the government for permission to destroy germs in many processed foods by zapping them with radiation. But while the federal government says it is safe, irradiation has not been widely embraced in the United States. PAGE A10
LOS ANGELES BANS BIG BILLBOARDS
The City of Los Angeles has opened a new front in its longstanding battle with billboard companies, with fire inspectors ordering building owners to remove so-called supergraphic signs, enormous advertisements draped across multistory structures, calling them fire hazards. PAGE A13
The Caucus
Biden Turns to Senate
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s skills face unexpectedly early tests: In the administration's effort to prevent its economic stimulus package from becoming a partisan exercise and in trying to salvage Tom Daschle's nomination for health and human services secretary. PAGE A12
DOCTRINAL SHIFT AT JUSTICE AGENCY
The Justice Department, probably more than any other agency in Washington, is bracing for a broad shift in policies, Obama administration officials say. Eric H. Holder Jr., whom the Senate is expected to confirm as the nation's 82nd attorney general, plans to take the oath of office immediately to demonstrate a quick start. PAGE A14
NEW YORK
BEHIND THE PROCESS
That Closes Schools
The decision to close a school is inevitably a subjective one, based on a mishmash of factors. This year, many of the 14 city schools marked for closing are left asking, ''Why us?'' PAGE A15
CAMPAIGN AGAINST HEALTH PROPOSAL
At a time when Gov. David A. Paterson can ill afford more negative attention, the state's most powerful health care interests will begin broadcasting statewide television commercials that criticize the governor's plans to cut funding for hospitals. PAGE A16
BUSINESS
A TECH MOGUL
Goes Green
Michael S. Dell, who got rich pruning the personal computer supply chain and trimming costs to undercut his competitors, is now involved in a more traditional kind of pruning and trimming. He controls ValleyCrest, the largest landscape design and maintenance company in the United States. PAGE B1
Bits:
Plan Could Pay Verizon $1.6 Billion B4
LEADERS WEARY OF U.S. MEASURES
This was supposed to be the year the United States came in from the cold at the World Economic Forum. Instead, American policies were rebuked again and again. The ire this time was directed mostly at Washington's economic failings, rather than its diplomatic ones. PAGE B6
Sports
RUNNING UP THE SCORE
To Keep Viewers Tuned In
Defense wins championships, the old sports saw goes. But offense sells tickets, and the N.F.L. may tinker with the rules this off-season to allow for higher-scoring games to keep the turnstiles whizzing during an economic downturn. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D3
A FAN CLUB OF ... NOT MANY
Sean Murray is that rarest of sports animals: an Arizona Cardinals diehard. He rooted for them when they played in St. Louis and after they moved to Phoenix, despite decades of uninterrupted wretchedness. On Sunday, he found himself surrounded by a nation of relative newcomers who could scarcely imagine what he had gone through to get to this point. PAGE D4
QUARTERBACKS SHAPED BY ADVERSITY
Kurt Warner and Ben Roethlisberger have much in common. Both arrived at this year's Super Bowl after having won one before. And for both, this showdown came after having been counted out by many. PAGE D1
NADAL VANQUISHES FEDERER, AGAIN
The showdown in the Wimbledon final last summer between Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer became an instant classic. The two met again for a much-anticipated rematch in the Australian Open final, and while it was not nearly as pretty or riveting, the result was the same, with Nadal again defeating Federer in five sets. PAGE D9
A TEST OF METTLE FOR THE KNICKS
The Knicks face a brutal homestand in the next week, against the three best teams in the N.B.A.: Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers on Monday, LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday and the defending champions, the Boston Celtics, on Friday. The Knicks hope the gantlet of top-flight competition will help gauge its progress. PAGE D10
PHELPS'S BEHAVIOR COULD BE COSTLY
The Olympic swimming star Michael Phelps could face the loss of millions of dollars in endorsements after a photograph surfaced in a British newspaper showing him inhaling from a marijuana pipe. PAGE D10
College Basketball Roundup D7
Obituaries
LUKAS FOSS, 86
A prolific and versatile composer who was also a respected pianist and conductor, he was considered an important voice in American composition, along with Aaron Copland, Samuel Barber, Elliott Carter and Leonard Bernstein. PAGE a15
Arts
JOKES AND FILMS ARE FUN,
But He Loves His Bluegrass
In his mercurial career, Steve Martin has gone from manic stand-up comic to introspective memoirist. But throughout his many incarnations, a banjo has never been far from reach. Now Mr. Martin is releasing an album called ''The Crow: New Songs for the Five-String Banjo.'' PAGE C1
THE OSCARS COURT AN AUDIENCE
With a batch of box-office lightweights vying for best picture at the Oscars, operatives of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences are quietly scrambling to assemble a ceremony that will attract more viewers. The show's producers are even asking studios and others to provide scenes from future films to liven up the proceedings. PAGE C1
Television Review
What It Takes to Be a Drag Queen
''RuPaul's Drag Race,'' which begins Monday on the Logo channel, is a new reality competition that explores what it takes to be a drag star. While most reality contests pump up backstage rivalries, ''Drag Race'' is strangely benign and friendly, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
Books of The Times: 'The Big Rich' C1
Art
A Statement of Priorities
Roberta Smith writes that when the trustees of Brandeis University voted unanimously to close the Rose Art Museum and auction off the 6,000 works in its collection -- without consulting either the museum's board of governors or its director -- the university made clear that it saw the museum as a disposable asset. PAGE C3
Critics' Choice: New CDs C4
Theater Review
The Minutiae of Eccentricity
The reclusive life of an American eccentric is examined in scrupulous, sometimes strange detail in ''Disfarmer,'' a puppet theater work from Dan Hurlin at St. Ann's Warehouse. Charles Isherwood calls the production exquisitely designed but conceptually thin. PAGE C6
Music Reviews
'Eugene Onegin'
The Metropolitan Opera has brought back Robert Carsen's beautifully spare 1997 production of ''Eugene Onegin.'' The soprano Karita Mattila was singing her first Tatiana at the house, and it was clear to Anthony Tommasini of The Times that she was the show's standout. PAGE C7
Juilliard Opera Sheds Polemics C7
Refinement, Dullness and Wildness At the New York City Ballet C7
Editorial
HELPING BELEAGUERED HOMEOWNERS
This economic crisis started with bad mortgage loans, and the resulting defaults and foreclosures have only worsened as house prices have plunged. The bankruptcy fix is the linchpin of effective foreclosure relief. And yet the fix is out of the Senate's mammoth stimulus and recovery package. PAGE A18
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
The Obama administration's plan for bank rescues is shaping up as a classic exercise in ''lemon socialism'': taxpayers bear the cost if things go wrong, but stockholders and executives get the benefits if things go right. PAGE A19
ROGER COHEN
It's time to think again, not merely to recalibrate old formulas, in order to end the three-decade impasse in United States-Iranian ties. And everything should not revolve around the nuclear issue. PAGE A19
TALK TO IRAN.
Then What?
In an Op-Ed article, Stephen Rademaker, former assistant secretary of state, argues that President Obama should be prepared to negotiate with Iran -- and to walk away from talks if Tehran fails to compromise. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) DRAWING (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); FUEL SPILLS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); WOMEN (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); RELIGION (64%); CHURCH & STATE (60%)

PERSON: JOHANNA SIGURDARDOTTIR (85%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) SUDAN (95%); KENYA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ICELAND (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011



77 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include personal income and spending for December, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for January and construction spending for December (Monday); pending home sales for December (Tuesday); the ADP employment report for January and the Institute for Supply Management's service index for January (Wednesday); revised fourth-quarter productivity (Thursday); and unemployment for January and consumer credit for December (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Electronic Arts, Humana, Mattel and Ryanair Holdings (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Avon Products, D. R. Horton, Dow Chemical, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Merck, MetLife, Motorola, Northrop Grumman, Schering-Plough, United Parcel Service, Walt Disney and Yum Brands (Tuesday); Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Clorox, E. W. Scripps, Kraft Foods, Philip Morris International, Pulte Homes, Sara Lee, Time Warner and Visa (Wednesday); Burger King, Cigna, Deutsche Bank, GlaxoSmithKline, JDS Uniphase, Kellogg, MasterCard, McClatchy, NCR, the News Corporation, Unilever and Warner Music (Thursday); and Biogen Idec, Toyota Motor and Weyerhaeuser (Friday).
 INDUSTRY REPORTS Automakers report their sales for January (Tuesday), and retailers report their comparable-store sales for January (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on promoting bank liquidity and lending (Tuesday).
 The House Financial Services Committee holds a hearing on the Madoff Ponzi scheme and the regulatory system (Wednesday).
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on the oversight of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (Thursday).
 ET CETERA Representatives of the Screen Actors Guild and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers begin two days of meetings on their contract dispute (Tuesday).
 The European Central Bank and the Bank of England issue decisions on interest rates (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); CHEMICALS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (68%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); PONZI SCHEMES (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (71%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (71%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (69%); NEWS CORP (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); D R HORTON INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (57%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); YUM! BRANDS INC (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (56%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (55%); MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (53%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (71%); ADM (NYSE) (71%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (71%); RYA (LSE) (71%); ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); AVP (NYSE) (57%); NOC (NYSE) (57%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); YUM (NYSE) (56%); PHM (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); PMI (SWX) (56%); PM (PAR) (56%); PM (NYSE) (56%); GSK (NYSE) (56%); GSK (LSE) (56%); BIOC (EGX) (56%); JDU (TSX) (56%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%); TYT (LSE) (55%); TM (NYSE) (55%); 7203 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (71%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (71%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



78 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 621 words

 BODY:
VALUING BAD ASSETS As the government prepares a plan to buy or guarantee banks' troubled assets, the biggest problem is how to value them. Getting this right won't be easy, and hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars are at stake. 
 The governments of the United States, Germany and Britain are all close to adopting ''bad bank'' solutions to the economic crisis. Such measures must be properly structured. Breaking Views. [B2.] 
 IRRADIATION AND FOOD The technology to irradiate food is decades old, and many experts say it could reduce or even eliminate food scares. The government says it is safe, but the United States has not widely embraced irradiation. [A10.]
 MARKET GLOOM RETURNS Investors' optimism from the start of 2009 is gone, and the question now is what the rest of the year might look like. The major stock indexes are hovering above their late-November lows, but not by much. [B1.]
 SUPER LETDOWNS Few commercials that ran during Super Bowl XLIII on NBC offered viewers anything special. It was regrettable, a missed opportunity, that so few of the two dozen sponsors dared to be different. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B1.]
 MICHAEL DELL'S INVESTMENTSMichael S. Dell, the technology mogul, created MSD Capital to manage the majority of his estimated $17 billion fortune. His portfolio of companies is diverse and unexpectedly low-tech. [B1.]
 CONDe NAST IN RETREAT In the last few years, the magazine publisher Conde Nast has started and then closed Vitals, Cargo, Men's Vogue and Domino. And when its advertisers measure twice and cut once, Conde Nast may not be able to keep all 23 of its magazines in business. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 UNEASY DeTENTE WITH APPLE Even with an agreement on new pricing terms for iTunes, Apple's online music store, the music industry's relationship with Apple remains tense. [B1.]
 A VIDEO NEWS KEEPSAKE Hoping that consumers will want digital memories of President Obama's Inauguration Day, ABC, CBS, CNN and NBC are all selling DVDs of the day's festivities through online stores. [B2.]
 INTERNET OUTPOSTS A Google project to bring the Internet to Entasopia, a remote village in Kenya, is looking at how obstacles might be overcome in Kenya and other parts of Africa. [B4.]
 LOW MORALE AT LONDON DAILY Reaction has been mixed to the announcement that Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, the K.G.B. agent turned oligarch, bought The Evening Standard for a pound this month, and made his son Evgeny Lebedev the new boss. [B7.]
 VERIZON AID AND MORE Verizon could receive $1.6 billion in the Senate's stimulus plan; the road to LED lighting is uncertain; Nerve Media, which runs a racy site, is spinning off Babble, a parenting site. Bits. [B4.]
 DISCORD AT DAVOS American policies were rebuked again and again at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, mainly aimed at what the world views as the new threat of protectionism by the United States. [B6.]
 G.M. SEEKS TAX HELP General Motors, the automaker receiving $13.4 billion in aid, is lobbying Congress to avoid a tax liability of as much as $7 billion. [B6.]
 THE GOOGLE LIBRARY By digitizing the world's great book collections, Google is solidifying its dominant position. Link by Link: Noam Cohen. [B6.]
 9/11 THEORY ON TV DRAMA An episode of ''Rescue Me'' on FX has what may sound like a far-fetched plot: that the attacks of Sept. 11 were an ''inside job.'' [B7.]
 CELLPHONE SHOPPING The Conde Nast shopping magazine Lucky is introducing an iPhone application that ties into stores. [B7.]
 DOCTOR CENSURED British Columbia's medical licensing body fined and censured Kevin Lee Patterson, accusing him of unethical and unprofessional conduct, because of an article he wrote for Mother Jones magazine. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC ASSETS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); FOOD IRRADIATION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PARENTING (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); MUSIC STORES (62%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (61%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); GERMANY (88%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



79 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Internet Comes Before Electricity

BYLINE: By CHRIS NICHOLSON

DATELINE: ENTASOPIA, Kenya 

 BODY:
The road from Nairobi winds 100 miles to this town deep in Masai country. The asphalt gives way to sand and dust, until finally it is just a dirt track climbing over broken hills and plunging back to desert flats. The going is slow.
 The outpost, with about 4,000 inhabitants, is at the end of that road and beyond the reach of power lines. It has no bank, no post office, few cars and little infrastructure. Newspapers arrive in a bundle every three or four weeks. At night, most people light kerosene lamps and candles in their houses or fires in their huts and go to bed early, except for the farmers guarding crops against elephants and buffalo.
 Entasopia is the last place on earth that a traveler would expect to find an Internet connection. Yet it was here, in November, that three young engineers from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, with financial backing from Google, installed a small satellite dish powered by a solar panel, to hook up a handful of computers in the community center to the rest of the world. 
 In recent years the mobile phone has emerged as the main modern communications link for rural areas of Africa. From 2002 to 2007, the number of Kenyans using cellphones grew almost tenfold to reach about a third of the population, many of whom did not have land lines, according to the International Telecommunication Union. 
 But many of the phones were simple models made more for talking than Web browsing, and wireless data networks are slow, with sporadic coverage.
 Satellite connections are faster and more stable, which is why they are attracting interest from the likes of Google, as a way to provide Internet connections to the estimated 95 percent of Africans who, according to the telecommunications union, have no access. 
 Although providing Internet access is outside the normal business realm of Google, with this project it is looking at how obstacles might be overcome in Kenya and other parts of Africa.
 The dish at Entasopia was intended to operate for months with little maintenance under harsh conditions. This station, along with two others in villages almost as remote, is part of a larger push by Google into small, marginal communities, providing them with new tools to access information, work with distant colleagues, and communicate with friends and family.
 Google paid for the final design of the stations and is covering the monthly fees for satellite bandwidth. The company has also invested in O3b, a start-up that hopes to deploy a constellation of satellites over Africa by the end of next year.
 ''Building infrastructure is not necessarily Google's objective, but if you look at all the areas that Google has gone into, in many cases it has been to fill a gap,'' said Joseph Mucheru, who heads Google's East Africa office. ''The market should see the opportunity.''
 Just how much opportunity there is remains unclear. Google is uncertain whether such satellite stations can pay for themselves in rural areas, given the cost of equipment and bandwidth. Communities may well benefit from the connection, but they do not all have the means to afford it.
 Bandwidth fees for stations like the one in Entasopia could cost as much as $700 a month, though slower ones cost less, said Wayan Vota, a senior director at Inveneo, a nonprofit that works to disseminate Internet technology throughout Africa and the developing world. As these connections are introduced more widely, which is O3b's goal, the price could fall, Mr. Vota said.
 When Internet connections arrive in small towns like Entasopia, they put new tools into the hands of people hungry to use them, and for some there, that has had wide repercussions.
 James Mathu has worked for the Kenyan agriculture ministry in Entasopia for five years, advising farmers on the environment, crop husbandry and soil conservation. The stable Internet link allows him to send information to district headquarters in Kajiado, instead of spending days traveling there and back to deliver monthly reports, which are too lengthy for him to send via cellphone. 
 ''It is a five-day affair,'' he said, estimating that the Internet saved him 12,000 shillings a year, or $152, in a country where the gross domestic product per person is $1,700.
 Joseph Kasifu, 40, is using the Internet to try to help others. His family runs a farm, but because his legs were crippled by polio as a child, he was limited in the farm work he could do.
 In Masai society, he said, disabilities like his were seen as bad omens. Traditionally, disabled newborns were abandoned and their mothers were put through a ritual cleansing to banish the evil spirits that were said to have caused the disability, while the place where the birth took place was burned. Even now, such children are often kept hidden away in the family manyatta, a wattle-and-daub hut.
 Mr. Kasifu is leading a campaign to raise awareness and to build a shelter, called Tuko, for such children. With the Internet connection, he has been able to upload a short video about their plight.
 ''The mothers come to me and say: 'Have you got a place to take our children?' '' he said. ''It hurts, but what can I do? Out of that hurt came this project.''
 But there are significant limits to how many Kenyans the Internet can reach. Even if it is available free, not everyone can take full advantage of it, one obstacle being computer literacy.
 Teddy Chenya, who for the past eight months has helped staff the community center for the Arid Lands Information Network, the Kenyan nongovernmental organization running the satellite ground stations, said that younger people were more likely to visit him than older ones, because they had time to spend and were willing to sit down, three to a computer, and learn by trial and error.
 ''Most people looking for information, they need help,'' he said. ''They still don't know where to look or what a Web address is. I played for them streaming video, and they said: 'Is it a radio? Is it a TV?' ''
 Another obstacle is literacy itself: many of the adults in Entasopia, especially women, cannot read.
 Nthenya Mule, East Africa manager for Acumen Funds, a nonprofit organization, directs investments in regional businesses that have a social-development aspect. Ms. Mule said there were many challenges facing poor, rural communities, and progress was often held back by larger problems like lack of infrastructure, health care or loan availability, rather than the scarcity of Internet access.
 ''Is VSAT what's most important?'' she asked, referring to very small aperture terminal, the satellite technology being used in the project.
 Still, Ms. Mule said, ''there are so many issues, sometimes you just begin acting where you can.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about efforts to expand Internet availability in rural Africa misspelled the name of a nonprofit organization that supports social development in Africa. It is Acumen Fund, not Funds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Entasopia, Kenya, Joseph Kasifu uses the Web to raise awareness of handicapped children.
 Teddy Chenya helps villagers learn to use the Internet: ''I played for them streaming video, and they said: 'Is it a radio?' '' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS NICHOLSON/THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (88%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (88%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (87%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); BANDWIDTH (73%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (87%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); EARTH (71%) KENYA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



80 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Art at Brandeis

 BODY:
Hard times force hard choices on everyone. But that does not require bad decisions too. At Brandeis University, President Jehuda Reinharz has made hard times worse by deciding to close the university's Rose Art Museum and sell off more than 6,000 works in its collection. 
 His dilemma is clear -- an endowment that has dropped 23 percent, to $549 million from $712 million, since the economic downturn began, and an immediate budget shortfall of some $10 million. The Madoff scandal and its effects on some of Brandeis's major donors have made new fund-raising possibilities especially bleak. 
 Selling the university's art collection would help plug its financial gap, but it would create a gaping hole in Brandeis's mission and its reputation. It would default on one of the great collections of contemporary art in New England, one built early on with extraordinary artistic acumen. The core works were acquired by the museum's founding director from such young artists (at young artist prices) as Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein and Andy Warhol. 
 The donors who made such purchases possible almost certainly did not think of them as temporary gifts to be cashed in during hard times. They thought of them as gifts in perpetuity, a way of enriching students, visitors, and the wider community able to see works from the Brandeis collection on loan to other museums. 
 Mr. Reinharz has indicated that there is a chance the university will not sell its collection if, in his words, ''there's a miracle tomorrow morning and the economy turns round and the stock market is up by 45 percent.'' As thinking goes, this is about as sound as Mr. Reinharz's decision to sell off so many valuable works in the current depressed market. Surely it would make more sense to share the pain across the university's budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); SCANDALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



81 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: A State With a Wish List for Stimulus Spending

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In charge of 1,200 miles of weather-beaten roads in rural California, Pat Minturn knows exactly where he would spend the $4 million his office hopes to receive from the federal stimulus package.
 ''Oasis Road, Happy Valley Road, Cassel Road,'' said Mr. Minturn, the public works director in Shasta County, about 200 miles north of here, ticking off a list of neglected mountainous byways. ''We can put that money on the road by this summer. And by the fall it will be gone.''
 Even as lawmakers in Washington debate the final form of the $819 billion stimulus package, state and local officials of both parties across the country are gearing up to spend the money. More than two-thirds of the states are facing budget shortfalls this year and next -- including yawning gaps in Arizona, Nevada and New York -- and could use the money to help balance budgets, blunt potential cuts in education and shrink Medicaid obligations. 
 Some big, battered states -- led by Michigan, which has the highest unemployment rate in the nation -- could use the plan to mend a frayed social services net straining under bad conditions, with new federal money expected for food stamps and unemployment benefits. 
 But in California, which has a projected budget deficit -- $42 billion -- that is larger than the total expenditures last year in each of 39 states, the federal stimulus will be put to its sternest test. The infrastructure and energy projects, high-tech job creation, rural outreach and low-income benefits included in the proposal make the state a proving ground where nearly all the plan's potential benefits, and pitfalls, converge. 
 All told, Congressional estimates show that California's two-year take from the House version of the bill, which was approved on Wednesday, could top $32 billion, or nearly $1,000 a resident. The State Finance Department puts the number even higher, at $37 billion.
 With nearly twice as many motor vehicles as any other state, California would receive at least $4 billion under the House plan for highway, rail and transit projects. Counties have already submitted possible uses, a list that could include $120,000 to improve a road in the small town of Niland and $9.3 million to close gaps in a bike path in Marin County, just north of San Francisco.
 In suburban Contra Costa County, east of San Francisco, meanwhile, stimulus money would start crews moving on a $2.5 million project to resurface a stretch of Vasco Road, a popular and treacherous commuter cut-through that has been the scene of deadly accidents, including a 2006 wreck that killed four construction workers. 
 Such projects are ideal for the short deadlines required by many of the grants and loans contained in the stimulus package, said Allan Krauter, the legislative analyst for Kern County, a mostly agricultural county north of Los Angeles. 
 ''It doesn't take a lot of design to repave a road,'' said Mr. Krauter, who estimated his county had some $125 million in ''shovel-ready'' highway plans. ''It's ready to go.'' 
 But potential infrastructure winners are not just asphalt. The California State Association of Counties estimates that its members have more than $12 billion worth of projects -- including transportation, county and public health facilities, green energy, court buildings and flood control -- ready to contract out within six to nine months. They range from high-tech to low, including a $7 million plan to improve broadband Internet access in Del Norte County, where redwoods almost outnumber people, and a $50,000 project to put barbecue pits in a park in agricultural San Benito County. 
 More urban areas have also made pitches. San Diego County, for example, submitted more than $500 million worth of potential projects to the association, a wish list including new gutters, ball fields, landfills, library expansions, government buildings, solar-energy systems and, in one case, security fencing at a Marine air base. 
 Not all, or even many, of these projects will be able to break ground using stimulus money. But with the state halting more than 5,000 infrastructure projects in December because of financial problems, the very idea that some new money might flow into cash-starved counties and localities has led to a touch of giddiness in some quarters.
 ''We rushed right down to Floyd's Emporium for shovels,'' Mr. Krauter of Kern County wrote in an e-mail message. ''But the City of Bakersfield got there ahead of us and cleaned them out.''
 For all the anticipation of stepped-up spending, there is also awareness of the potential pitfalls. Many environmentalists are not thrilled with an emphasis on road-building, though they acknowledge that repairing existing roads is a plus because smooth rides make cars more fuel efficient. 
 Critics of the plan, moreover, argue that building roads and infrastructure is not enough to bring California, or the nation, out of a recession and suggest that the entire stimulus package may not be big enough to make much of a dent. And while the House plan includes federal tax cuts, tax increases are on the table in some states, including California.
 There are political hazards, too. Not only is California needy, with high unemployment, the most foreclosures in the country and tax revenues so depressed that it will begin furloughing state workers, it is also politically unruly. 
 The deeply partisan culture in the capital, Sacramento, has resulted in near political paralysis in recent years; the negotiations over closing the budget gap this year were still continuing on Sunday, even as the state comptroller prepared to start issuing i.o.u.'s to vendors. And such problems raise inevitable doubts about how state leaders -- including Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and Democratic majorities in both houses -- will reach consensus on spending the billions of dollars marked by Congress as discretionary. 
 ''It's a lot of money, quickly,'' said Scott D. Pattison, the executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. ''So again the key word is management.''
 H. D. Palmer, a spokesman for the California Department of Finance, said his office had seen credit markets tighten as the state's economic malaise deepened. Mr. Palmer said the department would advise the state to pay off debt with ''fungible'' money in the so-called state fiscal stabilization fund, which could amount to $3 billion in California. But he acknowledged that there might be a fight.
 ''There will be any number of ideas on how to spend that money,'' Mr. Palmer said. 
 Some fiscal analysts also expressed concern that the influx of federal money might create costly expectations for some programs, like special education, which would then need to find future sources for operating money. 
 ''We want to make sure that doesn't add to future commitments,'' said Mac Taylor, with the state's legislative analyst's office. 
 And while Mr. Taylor said that the stimulus would be ''a big help in the near-term,'' he echoed the sentiment, voiced by politicians on both sides of the aisle, that Congress could not solve the state's long-term problems, like declining tax revenue, and a difficult legislative standard -- a two-thirds majority -- for raising taxes or passing budgets. 
 ''I think it would be very foolish to think that we could sit back and wait'' for federal help, said Karen Bass, a Los Angeles Democrat who serves as the speaker of the California Assembly, adding, ''That would be a gamble we cannot afford to take.''
 That said, state and federal officials say an infusion of money from Washington could take a large bite out of the state's budget deficit. Estimates vary, but California's nearly empty coffers could receive as much as $11 billion in additional Medicaid money over two years. 
 The stimulus would also give a lift to Silicon Valley, where even once-invulnerable companies like Yahoo have recently had layoffs, and to the growing clean-tech sector, which could see a windfall in new financing for projects like solar equipment, energy-efficient cars and smart energy grids. 
 Supporters of the stimulus package say places like the rural, agricultural counties of Central California, where double-digit unemployment is increasingly common, could see a sudden boom in ''green-collar'' workers with the plan's mandates to equip remote counties for broadband Internet access. 
 ''It's good for high-tech, low-tech and no-tech,'' said Carl Guardino, president and chief executive of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
 But even in California, which prides itself on being forward-thinking, some local officials in lightly populated regions, are skeptical that the stimulus will be anything more than a token gesture. 
 Lynn M. Flanigan, a senior engineer with the public works department in rural Inyo County, said she expected only a few hundred thousand dollars in federal transit money. 
 ''I can improve less than one mile of two-lane rural road with that,'' Ms. Flanigan said in an e-mail message. ''It's a joke.''
 But Mr. Minturn, the public works director in Shasta County, said he believed his hoped-for $4 million could create as many as 100 jobs up and down the construction chain, including road crews, truck drivers and workers retrieving the raw materials to make roads.
 ''Someone has to go out and dig up those rocks,'' he said. 
 The Senate plan is likely to differ from the House version. But no matter the package's final form, experts say that California will most likely be a reliable indicator of the plan's success or failure. 
 ''If it has a positive impact in California,'' said Mr. Pattison, of the budget officers association, ''it's going to be great everywhere else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Resurfacing a stretch of the treacherous Vasco Road is a potential project for suburban Contra Costa County
a stretch of sidewalk along Grove Street in San Diego looks treacherous to others. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); MEDICAID (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); APPROVALS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); FOOD STAMPS (65%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (60%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



82 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Let's Expand Medicare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (column, Jan. 30) is right: the time for universal health care is now! Universal health care would be a huge boost to the economy if done right. 
 Employers should stop paying for health care, and it should be paid for by tax revenues designed to spread the burden equitably. This would immediately reduce business expenses, and the savings would show up as increased salaries and investment. Health care cost burdens for individuals and families would be reduced, freeing more money for consumption and savings. 
 The best way to save a lot of money and provide universal coverage is to expand Medicare to everyone. The system, widely supported by more than 60 percent of Americans, has the lowest overhead in American health care and works for more than 40 million elderly people.
 William Thar Summit, N.J., Jan. 30, 2009
 The writer is a medical doctor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



83 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Offense Doesn't Win Championships, Yet

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Tampa, Fla. 

 BODY:
 More than any recent championship game, the pairing of the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Arizona Cardinals in Super Bowl XLIII posed a great matchup and a timeless question that went to the heart of football: Can a great high-yield offense defeat a great low-yield defense?
 At the end of Sunday's hard-fought game, the answer was no. 
 But only by a hair.
 In a second consecutive Super Bowl classic, Pittsburgh defeated Arizona, 27-23. 
 Arizona entered Sunday's game with the N.F.L.'s fourth-ranked offense and the highest-scoring offense in the postseason. Pittsburgh had the league's top-ranked defense and had allowed the fewest points in the league.
 But on Sunday, there were none of the devastating Steelers hits that marked their route to Tampa. In fact, for most of the second half it was the Steelers' vaunted defense that took big hits from the Cardinals' high-octane offense.
 At a time when passing offense is on the rise, new rules and the modification of old ones are being considered that will favor offense. Just as baseball owners famously encouraged home runs (at all cost) to bring back fans to the ball park, N.F.L. owners seem inclined to promote high-scoring, wide-open passing attacks to keep the turnstiles whizzing during an economic downturn.
 Shut out and blanketed for most of the first half, Larry Fitzgerald, the Cardinals' outstanding receiver, broke out in the second half. Fitzgerald proved that at least half the equation wasn't accurate as even the great Pittsburgh great defense couldn't stop him.
 Fitzgerald scored twice in the stretch of five minutes in the fourth quarter. His last touchdown, a 64-yard strike from Warner with 2 minutes 37 seconds left, completed a rousing comeback that gave Arizona a lead late in the fourth quarter. 
 As Mike Tomlin said after the game: ''Steeler football is 60 minutes; it's never going to be pretty.'' 
 The Steelers' offense, hardly regarded in Arizona's class, began a game-winning drive that gave Pittsburgh a record sixth Super Bowl championship. 
 Receiver Santonio Holmes was named the most valuable player, but it was the Steelers' defense that made the play that set the tone for the victory. 
 Trailing by 10-7, Warner led the Cardinals' offense, battered and bottled up, to the Steelers 1 with 18 seconds left in the first half. In one back-breaking play, Steelers linebacker James Harrison illustrated how a great defense, a great defensive play and a great defender can turn the tide.
 Harrison, the Associated Press defensive player of the year, intercepted a Warner pass and returned it 100 yards -- for the longest play in Super Bowl history -- diving into the end zone with no time left on the clock.
 ''I was just trying to get to the other side and score seven,'' he said. ''It was very tiring.'' 
 Harrison added, ''I was just thinking that I had to do whatever I could do to get into the end zone.''
 In the Cardinals' first possession of the second half, James Farrior, another Steelers veteran linebacker, hit Warner just as he released the ball. The play was originally ruled a fumble but changed to an incomplete pass. But the defense had set the tone and the Steelers took a 20-7 lead into the fourth quarter. 
 Great offense is always entertaining. But the argument that defense wins championships is compelling. Nine of the last 12 Super Bowl champions had a defense that ranked in the top 10 that season. Only 6 of the past 12 Super Bowl winners fielded a top 10 offense.
 In that span, only two of the top-scoring offenses won the championship: the 1997 Denver Broncos and the 1999 St. Louis Rams with Kurt Warner at quarterback. Last year, undefeated New England came to Super Bowl XLII with the highest-scoring offense in league history. The Patriots were unplugged by a relentless Giants defense that sacked Tom Brady five times. The Giants won, 17-14. Mike Singletary, the San Francisco 49ers' coach, said on NFL.com, ''The game of football is all about defense.'' Singletary was a middle linebacker of the 1985 Chicago Bears team that won the Super Bowl after that season. 
 ''If the other team can't score, it can't win,'' he said. ''It's blood and sweat and mud and all that stuff. That's what it's all about. If it's not about that, then you're not talking about defense. You're talking about offense.''
 But Sunday's game was not so much the triumph of great defense or great offense, but more about balance and timing.
 The Cardinals roared back in the fourth quarter, taking a 23-20 lead. 
 The Steelers' offense responded and then the Cardinals got the ball back for one final shot.
 Tomlin, who became the youngest head coach to win the Super Bowl, said his team talked at intermission about coming through. ''We talked about moments,'' he said. ''We talk about the fact that games are decided in situational football and you back up that talk with action in terms of how we build our team, how we prepare.''
 Fittingly, the final moment was turned in by the Pittsburgh defense when linebacker LaMarr Woodley sacked Warner. To paraphrase Tomlin, who said it best when asked to sum up the Steelers' victory: the Pittsburgh Steelers play offense and defense and they play the game hard, fast and smart. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pittsburgh linebacker James Farrior tackling Kurt Warner in the third quarter. After a review, the play was ruled an incompletion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (93%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (71%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



84 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Indicate Areas of Compromise on Stimulus

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
The broad outlines of how the Obama administration's near-trillion dollar stimulus package may change in the Senate began to become visible on Sunday, with Democratic senators indicating that they would be open to considering Republican amendments to the bill, particularly in the areas of housing and infrastructure spending.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said that Senate Democrats were interested in considering Republican proposals to do more to help the sputtering housing market, including instituting a $15,000 tax credit for all home buyers. 
 ''One of the Republican proposals is to raise the $7,500 tax credit we give to new home buyers, raise it to up $15,000 and do it for all home buyers,'' Senator Schumer said on CBS's ''Face the Nation.'' ''That's something that we look favorably upon.''
 Mr. Schumer, who is a member of the Finance Committee, also said he was also interested in passing legislation aimed at getting mortgage rates down to 4.5 percent, although he said he thought that might go in the next part of the bailout measure approved by Congress last year, not the stimulus package.
 He added, ''I think we will get real agreement on the housing part.''
 Senators of both parties also said on Sunday that they expected a significant amount of additional money -- about $20 billion to $30 billion -- to go toward infrastructure spending on such things as roads and bridges. Senator Schumer also said he supported an additional $5 billion for mass transit spending. 
 But there was significant disagreement along party lines over whether the additional spending should add to the bottom line dollar figure of the bill. With interest, the $819-billion version of the bill that passed the House last week could actually cost up to $1.2 trillion, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, Douglas Elmendorf, told the House Budget Committee on Tuesday.
 Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, speaking on NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' said that he would be willing to ''raise the total price tag'' of the bill to include get the additional spending sought by the Republicans. 
 But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader in the Senate, said, ''There's going to have to be a lot taken out of this bill for Republicans to support it.'' 
 The Senate version of the bill is already substantially different from the House package, including a provision to protect millions of middle-class Americans from having to pay the alternative minimum tax in 2009 that brings the total cost of the Senate bill to nearly $890 billion. Reconciling the two versions will require further negotiations with House leaders after the Senate acts. Floor debate is expected to last through next week.
 President Obama will meet with House and Senate Democratic leaders on Monday afternoon, the White House said on Sunday, at which the stimulus package is likely to be the chief topic of discussion.
 Indicating the types of cuts the Republicans would like to see to the bill, Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, said on ''Fox News Sunday'' that he took issue with the Obama administration's signature $500 tax credit to working families -- which some economists have said will not result in sufficient additional spending -- as well as with the creation of dozens of new government programs and the transfer of billions of dollars to the states.
 Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Republican of Texas, said on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' that she wanted cuts to ''social spending provisions'' that total about $200 billion in the bill. Additional tax cuts, Ms. Hutchinson and other Republicans said, would be more effective than large-scale government spending programs.
 ''The whole idea is to stimulate the economy immediately,'' she said. ''I think we can do it more effectively with less money. Let's do something timely, temporary and targeted, and do it on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis. It still can be done.''
 Senators from both parties also disagreed over how much of an overhaul the bill needs. Democrats continued to defend the measure in its broad outlines, with Senator Schumer indicating that four Republican senators have already indicated they will support the bill. Democrats, who control 58 seats in the Senate, need to pass the filibuster-proof majority vote of 60 to get the legislation approved. 
 ''The overall bill is the right bill,'' Senator Schumer said. While there are certain spending programs that will come out of the current bill, ''the changes will be small,'' he said. But Senator Kyl, the Republican whip, warned his party would withhold support for the bill unless there were ''major structural changes to it.''
 ''I see support for this legislation eroding,'' he said. ''I think the more people around the country see of it, the angrier they get, because it's very wasteful. It spends way too much money.''
 The Obama administration and Democrats have already cut two provisions in the bill passed by the House of Representatives last Wednesday without a single Republican vote. Dropped from the bill was $200 million to fix up the National Mall and millions for family planning that Republicans said would finance contraceptives.
 As Mr. Schumer put it on ''Face the Nation, ''This will pass with Republican votes, because it's a good package, and because we will make some changes around the edges.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BAILOUTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



85 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Taking Heat For Health Care Proposal

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
At a time when Gov. David A. Paterson can ill afford more negative attention, the state's most powerful health care interests are mounting a multimillion-dollar media campaign that excoriates the governor and his plans to cut funding for hospitals and other health care facilities.
 In television commercials that will begin broadcasting statewide on Monday, nurses and patients take a personal swipe at the governor, imploring, ''Why are you doing this?'' At one point, a nurse says, ''I can't believe Governor Paterson is the one making this proposal.'' Then a man, blind and in a wheelchair, asks the governor, who is legally blind, ''Why are you doing this to me?''
 The attacks on Mr. Paterson come as Republicans are ratcheting up their own objections to the governor's budget proposal, taking advantage of what they consider an opening to criticize a governor weakened by the fallout over the way he selected a new United States senator. 
 In a further sign of trouble for the governor, members of his own party have become increasingly unhappy with him in the last week. Some Democrats have worried publicly that Mr. Paterson is not moving quickly and aggressively enough to counter criticism about his handling of the appointment of Kirsten E. Gillibrand to the Senate. 
 Mr. Paterson, who rearranged his schedule last week after canceling a trip to Davos, Switzerland, for an economic forum, spent much of the weekend traveling to previously unscheduled town meetings across upstate New York. He met with the public at community colleges in Johnstown on Friday and in Auburn on Saturday, where he defended his plans to close the $15 billion state budget deficit.
 ''All of us are having to make cuts,'' Mr. Paterson said to reporters after his meeting in Johnstown. ''This is really a very hard thing to perform, and it's also a very hard thing to experience.''
 While legislative leaders and public employees' unions have expressed concern over the cuts Mr. Paterson has proposed, no one has criticized the governor as harshly or as loudly as the health care interests do in their new campaign. The governor is calling for $3.5 billion less in funding increases for health care spending over the next 14 months. 
 The advertising blitz, which is being paid for by the 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East and the Greater New York Hospital Association, will feature television commercials in all of the state's major media markets -- including New York, Syracuse and Buffalo -- and in smaller markets like Utica, Watertown and Binghamton. The television spots will accompany radio commercials, newspaper advertisements, direct mail and phone banks that the campaign's organizers hope will reach up to two million voters. The television and radio components alone, with their statewide reach, will cost at least $1 million per week. 
 ''From our point of view, we're between a rock and a hard place,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the hospital association. ''We have no place to go but to the court of public opinion and make everyone aware of what is going on.''
 A spokeswoman for the governor, Risa B. Heller, said that the governor's budget calls for a reduction in the rate of health care spending growth -- not a reduction in spending. And she questioned whether a media campaign was the most appropriate way for the groups to air their concerns. ''The governor hopes that 1199 and G.N.Y.H.A. recognize that a television ad never helped solve a crisis and asks that they join him in his responsible approach to this year's budget,'' she said.
 The advertising campaign, which organizers said would last for at least a month, is similar to efforts undertaken by the union and the hospital association in the past. Most recently, when Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed cutting health care funding as part of his budget in 2007, the health care groups took aim at him with commercials that questioned the wisdom of his budget cuts. Mr. Spitzer countered with his own ads that featured a nursery filled with crying infants and a narrator saying that ''special interests'' were merely complaining and standing in the way of budget reform.
 The health care groups' campaign this year puts the Paterson administration on the defensive at a time when the governor is trying to rebound from attacks on his credibility. In addition to facing criticism about why he allowed the Senate appointment process to drag on for nearly two months and turn into a circuslike atmosphere of speculation, he has also faced questions about his role in disparaging information given to the news media about Caroline Kennedy. 
 Ms. Kennedy had been considered a leading candidate for the Senate seat, but after she unexpectedly withdrew from consideration, associates of Mr. Paterson's were quoted anonymously by numerous media outlets as saying that problems involving her taxes, her marriage and a household employee were behind her withdrawal.
 Mr. Paterson has disavowed those leaks and denied that he authorized them. But he has offered varying explanations about whether he would pursue action against the person or people responsible for them.
 Republicans said they see an opportunity to strike and will use it to their advantage.
 ''It gives Republicans an opening,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island who is expected to campaign for Ms. Gillibrand's Senate seat in next year's election. ''Everything that could have gone wrong for them over the last six weeks went wrong. They came across as the gang who couldn't shoot straight, and this could be our opportunity.''
 Republicans in Albany hope that criticizing the governor's proposals to shore up the economy will diminish his standing on an issue that many believed was his strongest political advantage. 
 ''He's talking about 100 new taxes, but he hasn't talked about creating any new jobs,'' said Dean G. Skelos, the Republican minority leader in the State Senate. ''Right now people in Albany believe that the Democrats cannot function and govern, and they're looking to us.''
 Some Democrats believe Mr. Paterson needs to do more to surmount the damage that has been done to his reputation -- and by proxy, to their party. ''The time to correct the situation is right now,'' said Sam Hoyt, a Democratic assemblyman who represents Buffalo. ''But people are starting to get impatient.''
 Mr. Hoyt added, ''If I were in his shoes, given the very real bumps in the road that he's endured, I would spend some time reaching out to his colleagues in the Legislature and try to restore the confidence of his allies in government.''
 But some Democrats complained that Mr. Paterson has only become more aloof from Albany lawmakers.
 ''We're not having meetings,'' said one Democratic lawmaker, who did not want to be identified so he could speak more candidly about Mr. Paterson's relationship with the Legislature. ''They should be calling us and saying, 'What are we going to do now? Let's work through the issues.' ''
 With Democrats now in control of the governor's mansion and both chambers of the Legislature for the first time since the Depression, some said they fear that voters will place the fault squarely on Democrats if the budget and other major issues are not resolved quickly.
 ''There's no one else to blame,'' said Rory I. Lancman, a Democratic assemblyman from Queens. ''And there's not going to be anyone else who we can point a finger to if we don't succeed in delivering.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Why are you doing this to me?'' a blind man asks in one ad paid for by a health care workers' union and a hospital group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BLINDNESS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (74%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



86 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: With Disputes Brewing, Biden Turns to Senate

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The first thing you notice is how happy he is. Walking into a suite that until recently was Dick Cheney's turf, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is smiling -- big time.
 ''All the years you covered me, I never, quite frankly, thought about the vice presidency,'' Mr. Biden, a former Delaware senator, said in an interview last week in what was once the secretary of war's office at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building next to the White House. ''And when President Obama asked me to join him, I wasn't at all sure whether there was a right place for me,'' he said, adding, ''But it's working out.''
 For a loquacious 66-year-old whose career has seen family tragedy, a health crisis and two failed presidential runs, that is a rare understatement. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said, ''It's an adjustment for Joe -- every day is like Christmas.'' 
 Mr. Biden will need good humor for his first new job since Richard M. Nixon's presidency. And now his skills face unexpectedly early tests -- in the administration's effort to prevent its economic stimulus package from becoming a partisan exercise, and in trying to salvage Tom Daschle's nomination for health and human services secretary despite controversy over previously unpaid taxes.
 The vice president has not surrendered his edgy, sometimes impolitic sense of humor. After publicly tweaking Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. during their first days in high office for bungling Mr. Obama's inaugural oath (the president appeared unamused), Mr. Biden elbowed their predecessors last week by greeting labor union officials with a tart ''Welcome back to the White House.'' 
 Nor has he shed his propensity to rattle press aides. In the interview, his comments on the financial industry bailout and on union-organizing legislation left administration staff members scrambling to make clear that he was not articulating new policy or diverging from Mr. Obama's position.
 Yet Mr. Obama chose Mr. Biden not for his verbal facility, but for his experience and what David Axelrod, the president's strategist, calls ''profound common sense.'' Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. grew up understanding economic misfortune through the financial setbacks suffered by Joseph Robinette Biden Sr.
 ''He has never forgotten his roots,'' Mr. Obama said last week in naming the vice president to head a task force on the economic prospects of middle-class families.
 More relevant this week are the instincts Mr. Biden honed in six terms in the Senate. Two political dramas there are challenging the administration's script for its first month in office.
 One concerns the stimulus package, which despite the president's desire for bipartisan backing did not win a single Republican vote in the House. From the telephone to the Senate gym, Mr. Biden has been plying former colleagues for Republican support in the Senate, with little obvious payoff so far.
 ''This bill is a stinker,'' Mr. Graham said, predicting that significant Republican cooperation would come only with fundamental changes in the package. White House officials show no sign of acceding.
 The other immediate problem is the nomination of Mr. Daschle, the former Senate majority leader who informed Obama officials only after his cabinet nomination that he was liable for $128,000 in back taxes. The morning of the interview, before the tax controversy flared up publicly, Mr. Biden ate breakfast alone with Mr. Daschle. He is working to salvage the nomination, which even Daschle allies agree is in doubt.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, a Democratic colleague for nearly three decades, calls these situations precisely where Mr. Biden's relationships and his feel for ''the rhythms of the Senate'' can help Mr. Obama assess his options. While Mr. Biden casually sounds out former colleagues, Mr. Dodd explained, ''He can say, 'Off the record -- the president's not going to know your name -- what do you think?' ''
 Mr. Biden credits his much younger boss with a similarly unceremonious leadership style, evoking former President Bill Clinton's White House but with a greater level of discipline. 
 ''There's never been an elected official I've worked with -- a president or in my iteration as a senator for 36 years -- who is as incisive and disciplined about what he focuses on,'' Mr. Biden said of Mr. Obama. ''He's clear, he's disciplined, there's a precision in his thinking that has surprised everyone.''
 ''And it goes along with a genuine informality,'' he continued. ''That informality breeds you being prepared to say, 'Well, Mr. President, I don't think that works ... . As opposed to walking in and saying, 'Sir ... .' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I wasn't at all sure whether there was a right place for me'' in the Obama administration, the vice president said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (88%); DAVID AXELROD (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (56%); TOM DASCHLE (56%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



87 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Obama Predicts Support From G.O.P. for Stimulus Proposal

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama said on Sunday that he was confident his economic stimulus package, which moves to the Senate this week, would eventually receive ''substantial support'' from Republicans, and Democratic senators suggested they would be open to altering the bill to reflect Republicans' ideas on housing and spending for infrastructure. 
 With House Republicans having spurned the bill last week -- not a single Republican voted in favor -- Mr. Obama is now on a quest to reshape the legislation in a way that will bring Senate Republicans, and perhaps eventually some House members as well, on board. On Monday, he will meet with Congressional Democratic leaders at the White House for further discussions on the package.
 ''I am confident that by the time we actually have the final package on the floor that we are going to see substantial support,'' Mr. Obama said Sunday in a pre-Super Bowl interview with Matt Lauer of NBC News, adding that he would push for lawmakers to remove provisions from the bill ''that are not relevant to putting people back to work right now.''
 In the interview, Mr. Obama touched on a variety of topics, including his promise to withdraw troops from Iraq -- he agreed when Mr. Lauer asked if a ''substantial number'' of troops would be home one year from now -- and the ''sobering moments'' he said he has experienced in signing letters to the families of soldiers who have died. He described the economy as ''an urgent situation,'' and said the nation would be ''in for a tough several months.''
 The president was not specific about what provisions he might remove from the stimulus package to entice Republicans to sign on. He prodded House Democrats to remove $200 million to spruce up the Mall in Washington and millions of dollars for family planning programs that Republicans said would finance contraceptives, but those moves did not result in bipartisan support when the House voted on the plan last week.
 Earlier Sunday, leading Senate Democrats suggested they would be willing to consider several Republican proposals, including a $15,000 tax credit for all home buyers. ''That's something that we look favorably upon,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation.''
 Even so, there is substantial disagreement between the parties over what form the bill should take. The Senate version, with a price tag of roughly $890 billion, already differs from the $819 billion version passed by the House, and some Republican lawmakers say the price is just too high. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC that she wanted to cut about $200 billion of ''social spending programs'' from the bill.
 ''I think we can do it more effectively with less money,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); FAMILY PLANNING (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



88 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Sins of Omission: The Forgotten Poor

 BODY:
Also lost in the wrangling over the huge House economic measure were two programs for the poor that are in urgent need of Congressional attention: legal services and access to family planning. 
 The proven national program of civil legal aid for impoverished Americans, created in the 1960s, is suffering from multiple blows in funding. While the poor are caught increasingly by foreclosure, eviction and food-stamp fights for their daily bread, deficit-bedeviled statehouses across the country are cutting support for legal services or dropping the programs outright.
 Creative funding that taps lawyers' escrow accounts has evaporated because it is tied to the Fed's fading interest rate. Local governments, charities and pro bono law firms are similarly tight-pursed. Scores of legal aid societies are cutting their staffs just as requests for help are booming, according to The Times's Erik Eckholm. 
 Bar associations continue to help, and even in these tough times probably could do more. But federal funding is the ultimate hope in a dire situation. In 2008, Congress chipped in $350 million for the nonprofit Legal Services Corporation, which then distributed the money throughout the country. Given the tough times -- underfunded programs and ever more desperate clients -- more money is needed. Congress still has the opportunity to renew the regular appropriation in a coming omnibus budget bill, but it must bolster that with extra support for the program. 
 At the same time, it was distressing to see President Obama strip Medicaid coverage of family planning services out of the House economic package at the last minute in what turned out to be a futile effort to secure Republican support for the huge recovery bill.
 Under current law, states wanting to use Medicaid money for family planning services, including cancer screenings, must obtain a waiver from Washington, as some 27 states have done. The modest provision that was cut would have done away with the cumbersome process. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the measure would provide coverage to 2.3 million women by 2014 and save $200 million over five years.
 The Medicaid family planning provision would reduce the number of abortions by helping an estimated half-million women avoid unplanned pregnancy, according to a study by the Guttmacher Institute. The knee-jerk opposition of House Republicans was but the latest sign of G.O.P. insensitivity to women's rights and health. President Obama should no longer placate it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (91%); FAMILY PLANNING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MEDICAID (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WOMEN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EVICTION (78%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (61%); ABORTION (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%); CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES CORP (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



89 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: A Tech Mogul's Green Thumb

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: CALABASAS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Michael S. Dell got rich building computers. His innovation was in pruning the PC supply chain and trimming production costs to undercut his competitors on price. 
 Now some of the billions of dollars he earned in technology go toward a more traditional kind of pruning and trimming. Mr. Dell, the founder and chief executive of the computer maker bearing his name, also controls ValleyCrest, the largest landscape design, construction and maintenance company in the United States. 
 Executives at the private company, which has received little attention in the mainstream press, said their company has managed to keep growing despite the weakening economy. 
 ValleyCrest has a number of brand-name clients. It has primped the lawns of the Nixon Presidential Library in Yorba Linda, Calif.; the FedEx headquarters in Memphis; and the Centennial Olympic Park in Atlanta. 
 It also planted the gardens at some of the biggest hotels in Las Vegas, like Caesars Palace, the Bellagio, the Wynn and the Venetian, and even installed the towering palm trees along the Las Vegas Strip.
 It manicures the lawns of the rich and famous as well. In fact, Mr. Dell discovered the company when it began landscaping his sprawling residential compound in Austin, Tex. 
 Mr. Dell bought 51 percent of ValleyCrest in 2006 through a deal engineered by MSD Capital, the firm he created to exclusively manage the majority of his fortune. 
 ''He was very happy with the work we did on his house,'' said Richard A. Sperber, the co-chief executive of ValleyCrest.
 The bulk of Mr. Dell's estimated $17 billion fortune is spread across a portfolio of companies that is unusually diverse and low-tech for a technology mogul. MSD Capital has made investments in restaurant companies including those running IHOP, Applebee's, Steak 'n Shake and Domino's Pizza. 
 It also holds stakes in car-related companies, including the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, the car rental company, and MSD Automotive Partners, which invests in luxury car dealerships.
 MSD Capital has vast real estate holdings in Hawaii, Mexico and California as well, and stakes in large real estate management firms that own hotels and resorts like the Hilton Times Square. 
 Mr. Dell, who owns $2.14 billion worth of Dell stock, declined to discuss ValleyCrest or his other investments for this article. In the past, he has argued that his investment firm's independence allows him to concentrate on managing Dell. And yet the firm's investment style appears to mimic Mr. Dell's pragmatic approach toward business. 
 Indeed, much like Dell Inc., MSD Capital has set a pattern of jumping into consolidating markets and using its capital to give one player an edge in scale and efficiency. 
 Mr. Dell's investment in ValleyCrest has done well. Despite the roughest economy in decades, ValleyCrest, a private company, expects to bring in more than $1 billion in revenue this year, growing, as it has historically, by about 12 percent a year. 
 ''It's been tough to communicate the state of the economy to the trees and convince them to stop growing,'' Mr. Sperber joked. 
 Over more than 60 years, ValleyCrest, based in this city in the San Fernando Valley, northwest of Los Angeles, has moved from local highway beautification projects to building a zoo and safari park in Abu Dhabi that will have exotic plants and tens of thousands of animals. 
 ''We're lucky enough to have some of our designers catch the eye of the royal family in Abu Dhabi,'' Mr. Sperber said. 
 Burton S. Sperber, Richard's father, founded the company after buying a nursery from the widow of his employer for $700 in 1949. ValleyCrest had mostly been an installation and maintenance operation, as the industry calls it, handling the back-breaking labor on projects designed by landscape architects. 
 Today, in addition to maintaining the gardens of so many well-known properties, the company grows 12,000 varieties of trees for customers at an 800-acre nursery and also maintains golf courses. 
 Richard Sperber, who became co-chief executive with his father last year, has tried to grow the company by taking on a flashier role in projects with a wider range of services for big jobs.
 ValleyCrest wants to manage every aspect of new projects from the design to the higher-profit maintenance work. To do it, ValleyCrest has poached some of the top landscape designers in the country from its old partners. For instance, Paul Comstock, a former director of landscape design for Walt Disney Imagineering, led projects like Disney's Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Fla. 
 The relationship with Mr. Dell and MSD Capital has fueled ValleyCrest's ambitions, leading to some of its top design jobs. 
 For example, investors in MSD Capital have relationships with the Kraft family, which owns the New England Patriots football team. That helped ValleyCrest win the contract for Patriot Place, a retail center next to Gillette Stadium, the Patriots' home in Foxborough, Mass. 
 But as ValleyCrest dives into the design business, it is causing friction with some of its longtime architecture partners. Lifescapes International, in Newport Beach, Calif., worked with ValleyCrest on several of the Las Vegas properties and has had a relationship with the company for 50 years.
 ''It was a sad day when they decided to become competitors,'' said Julie Brinkerhoff-Jacobs, president of Lifescapes. ''We just don't exchange leads like we once did.''
 ValleyCrest has spent the last few years acquiring smaller landscape companies throughout the United States, giving it access to large markets in Florida, Washington and elsewhere. 
 Despite its growth and the presence of MSD Capital, ValleyCrest continues to operate like a small family-owned business. 
 ''It was a bit of a leap of faith with them coming in,'' Mr. Sperber said. ''But they have left us to run the business the way we know how to run the business.''
 ValleyCrest employs more than 11,000 people, though that number drops to about 8,000 in winter when work slows. It is one of the largest employers of Latino workers in America and takes pride in retaining staff through above-average wages and raises.
 And now Mr. Dell has started to put his touch on ValleyCrest's traditions. As the company looks to reinvent the landscape supply chain by unifying design, construction and maintenance, it has tried to turn simplicity into a way of winnings customers. ''The inefficiencies of the current system are just so archaic,'' Mr. Sperber said, sounding a bit like Mr. Dell. 
 Mr. Dell urged ValleyCrest to eliminate some of the wasteful practices in the field. After tapping a consulting firm to institute the program, ValleyCrest hired some efficiency gurus from Toyota to make the effort permanent.
 ''We visited the factories at Dell, and it really opened our eyes to ways we could improve,'' Mr. Sperber said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YUKO SHIMIZU) (pg.B1)
 CHART: BEYOND COMPUTERS: Michael Dell and his family own a diverse portfolio of companies, mostly through MSD Capital, an investment management firm. The firm has about $10 billion under management for Mr. Dell. Here is a look at some of the companies he has a stake in. (Source: MSD Capital and regulatory filings) (pg.B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RESORTS (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (68%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%)

COMPANY: DELL INC (84%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (53%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN THUMB (84%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); DPZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (53%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (53%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



90 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Ads That Pushed Our Usual (Well-Worn) Buttons

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
In recent months, Americans have been disappointed and appalled by Wall Street, banks, the big-budget film ''Australia,'' investment counselors, Detroit, the governors of at least two states, hedge fund managers and even the geese at La Guardia, which used to know better than to interfere with those metal birds they fly among. 
 After Sunday, you could add Super Bowl advertising to that lengthening list of letdowns.
 Few commercials that ran during Super Bowl XLIII on NBC offered viewers anything special. To paraphrase a line from the movie ''Sabrina,'' you could pick some ads out of a hat blindfolded and come up with better ones. 
 Although the country's circumstances are far different than in previous years, many of the more than 50 spots shown on Sunday would not have seemed out of place in any Super Bowl of the last decade or two. All the elements that are supposed to make for successful big-game commercials were displayed, over and over again, as if bonuses were being awarded on Madison Avenue for the least creative briefs.
 Slapstick violence? Check. Celebrities? Check. Sex, and occasional sexism? Ditto. Nostalgia? Sure. Using opera as background music? Uh-huh. Babies, animals, baby animals -- check, check, check.
 Even some approaches billed as new -- like a pair of commercials in 3-D, for the animated film ''Monsters vs. Aliens'' and SoBe Lifewater -- were not so; the Coca-Cola Company ran a spot in 3-D for Diet Coke in 1989.
 It was regrettable, a missed opportunity, that so few of the two dozen sponsors dared to be different on Sunday. Perhaps they were afraid they had to play it safe because of the economy and the national mood.
 As a result, commercials for many brands -- among them Bud Light, Coke Zero, Doritos and Pepsi Max -- channeled the Three Stooges with broad physical comedy.
 If you enjoy watching men tossed out a window, struck by a bus, hit by a golf club, tackled by a football player or laid low by a snow globe to the crotch, then this year's Super Bowl was for you.
 Animal lovers had a night to remember as advertisers like Budweiser, Castrol, Cheetos, Monster.com and Pedigree brought out a menagerie of birds, bulls, chimpanzees, dogs, horses, lizards, monkeys, moose and warthogs.
 A particularly worn device for Super Bowl ads -- an overreliance on familiar faces -- got a real workout. A lifetime subscription to People was not necessary to spot, in more than a dozen spots, stars who included Muhammad Ali, Alec Baldwin, Bob Dylan, MC Hammer, Derek Jeter, Michael Jordan, Ray Lewis, Ed McMahon, Conan O'Brien, Danica Patrick, Troy Polamalu, Will.i.am, Serena Williams and Tiger Woods. 
 Thankfully, some sponsors recalled the advice Franklin D. Roosevelt gave about fear and produced commercials that tried to speak to consumers the way they are today rather than V, X or XX Super Bowls ago.
 For instance, Careerbuilder.com, owned by a consortium of media companies like Gannett and McClatchy, offered support to workers worried about changing jobs in a wretched economy.
 The commercial, by Wieden & Kennedy, used exaggerated humor to suggest that ''even if you make loads of money'' -- symbolized by a man drinking gold bars liquefied in a blender -- ''it may be time'' to look around.
 Spots for Frosted Flakes, sold by Kellogg, and Pedigree dog food, sold by Mars, struck the type of altruistic note that resonates in tough times. The Frosted Flakes commercial, by the Leo Burnett unit of the Publicis Groupe, promoted a program to rebuild children's fields and playgrounds. The Pedigree spot promoted an adoption drive (who could resist the words ''Help us help dogs''?). The Pedigree agency is TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
 The E*Trade Group put the babies in its commercial to good use, allaying concerns about the economy by telling viewers, ''It's times like these E*Trade can re-plan your investments.'' The spot was created by the Grey unit of the Grey Group, part of WPP.
 And who enduring a recession does not like something for nothing? Denny's ended its commercial, by the Goodby, Silverstein & Partners division of Omnicom, with an offer of a free Grand Slam breakfast at participating restaurants for eight hours on Tuesday. 
 Also, the Universal theme park in Orlando, Fla. -- part of the NBC Universal unit of General Electric -- concluded its commercial during halftime with a giveaway on a Web site (universalheroes.com) of 100,000 free seven-day tickets.
 What follows is an assessment of some of the other high and low points among the commercials shown nationally on NBC during the Super Bowl. The spots are among more than 40 provided to reporters before the game.
 ANHEUSER-BUSCH A decision by the Anheuser-Busch division of Anheuser-Busch InBev to play up its famous Budweiser Clydesdales paid off in an example of animal acts that actually worked.
 A spot about a love affair between a Clydesdale and a circus horse, by the DDB Worldwide unit of Omnicom, tugged at the heartstrings. And a commercial providing a fanciful version of how the Clydesdales came to America, by Waylon Advertising, deftly blended humor, schmaltz and patriotism.
 Another smart move was to capitalize on the dry wit of Conan O'Brien for a Bud Light spot, by DDB, that spoofed the penchant among money-mad celebrities to endorse products overseas. The make-believe catch phrase in the commercial, ''Vroom, vroom, party starter,'' may well become an actual one.
 CASH4GOLD Years from now, if the world dodges another Depression, viewers will smile when they recall that a company paying money for scrap gold ran a spot on the vaunted Super Bowl. Yet unlike advertisers that seemingly selected celebrities at random, Cash4Gold, part of Albar Precious Metal Refining, picked its stars -- Mr. McMahon and MC Hammer -- carefully: their financial difficulties have been widely chronicled.
 And if the world does not dodge another Depression? Look for Super Bowl XLIV to feature a commercial for Cash4Blood. The Cash4Gold agencies are Arnold Worldwide and Euro RSCG Edge, units of Havas.
 HULU Another shrewd choice of a celebrity, in this instance Mr. Baldwin, echoing the character he portrays so hilariously on the sitcom ''30 Rock'' -- which is, not coincidentally, among the TV shows computer users can watch on hulu.com, a joint venture of NBC Universal and the News Corporation. The commercial, by Crispin Porter & Bogusky, a unit of MDC Partners, had the best (and most warped) sense of humor of any Super Bowl spot.
 PEPSICO A commercial by TBWA/Chiat/Day, featuring Mr. Dylan and Will.i.am, rewrites history by presenting Pepsi-Cola as the choice of peaceniks, hippies and other youthful rebels. In reality, the Pepsi-Cola parent, PepsiCo, was led at the time by Donald Kendall, a friend of Richard M. Nixon's, and the soft drink was considered the Republican soda.
 SOBE LIFEWATER The premise of the spot in 3-D for SoBe Lifewater, sold by a unit of PepsiCo, was that it is inherently funny to watch football players dance ballet. The Super Bowls of the 1960s are calling: They want their stereotype back. The outdated concept, alas, undercut the appeal of a catchy song, ''SoBelieve,'' written for the commercial. Agency: the Arnell Group unit of Omnicom. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left to right, spots for Hulu.com, Castrol Edge and Coke Zero. Over all, the ads of 2009 recycled ideas that had been successful in the past. (pg.B1)
 A Budweiser ad about a love affair between a Clydesdale and a circus horse. (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); CHILDREN (71%); MUSIC (66%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (64%); GOLF (61%); PRIMATES (60%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (82%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (82%); MWW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (76%); ALEC BALDWIN (58%); CONAN O'BRIEN (55%); DEREK JETER (50%); SERENA WILLIAMS (50%); TIGER WOODS (50%); DANICA PATRICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



91 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders Wary of U.S. Economic Measures

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Katrin Bennhold contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
This was supposed to be the year the United States came in from the cold at the annual gathering of world leaders here. But instead of receiving a warm embrace, American policies were rebuked again and again in rhetoric that recalled the anger of the Bush years -- mainly aimed at what the world views as the new threat of protectionism by the United States.
 Certainly, there is a deep reservoir of good will for President Obama and the change in direction he represents. But despite the pledges to encourage international trade and economic cooperation that accompanied the closing sessions of the gathering, the World Economic Forum, on Sunday, there were clear signs that deep divisions between the United States and the rest of the world remained. 
 ''There is such a level of concern, despair and anxiety that as welcome as the new president is, no one is inclined to cut the U.S. much slack,'' said Richard Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations.
 Or as Niall Ferguson, the Harvard historian, put it, ''If G.M. got a new C.E.O., does that mean people would suddenly want to buy their cars?''
 The criticism came from the usual sources, like Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Premier Wen Jiabao of China, who both criticized a long pattern of excessive consumption, risky borrowing and inadequate regulation in the United States.
 But more significant, the brickbats also came from economic and political leaders of European allies like Germany and France.
 Whether the issue was the recent bailout for the American auto industry or proposals favoring American steel producers in the stimulus package now being debated on Capitol Hill, foreign officials warned that any move toward protectionism would have serious consequences for Washington and the rest of the world.
 ''We must not allow market forces to be completely distorted,'' Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, warned in a speech on Wednesday. ''For instance, I am very wary of seeing subsidies injected into the U.S. auto industry. That could lead to distortion and protectionism.''
 By the weekend, as word of the ''Buy American'' provision in the stimulus package to help the United States steel industry spread through Davos, the tone had become sharper.
 ''It's extremely preoccupying that one of the first acts of the new Obama administration could be a measure that is clearly protectionist and a distortion of competition,'' said Anne-Marie Idrac, the French trade minister, who tried to draw Pascal Lamy, director general of the World Trade Organization, into the battle.
 Mr. Lamy, however, said the organization would only act if there has been a ''breach of the rules.'' ''I am not that big cop,'' he added.
 For all the global affection for Mr. Obama, Washington sent a relatively low-profile contingent to Davos, with Valerie Jarrett, a White House adviser, serving as the administration's headliner here.
 Ms. Jarrett did not address the issue of protectionism directly in her brief speech on Thursday, preferring to stick with the big picture as well as Mr. Obama's connection to Chicago, her hometown.
 Instead, the task of defending American economic policy fell to attendees like Representative Brian Baird, a Democrat from Washington State, who has served in Congress for the last decade.
 ''The steel issue is vastly overplayed here,'' he said. ''Even Adam Smith himself said certain key industries deserved to have protection.''
 Noting that his district is home to two steel plants -- down from three a few years ago -- he added, ''Steel is one of those industries.''
 He suggested that this was not the time to push free-trade dogma on American taxpayers already worried about surging levels of unemployment.
 ''If you want to kill the W.T.O., that would be the way to do it,'' he said.
 Davos has always stood for globalization, and the benefits of free trade are an article of faith here. But even Davos die-hards concede that national economic interests have come to the fore amid the global downturn, and voter support for easing trade barriers is at low ebb.
 To be sure, for all the foreign criticism over the help for the Detroit automakers, European countries including France, Britain and Sweden have offered up billions in aid for local auto manufacturers. What's more, France has long protected the French companies it calls ''national champions'' from the threat of foreign takeover while providing huge subsidies for its farmers.
 But beyond the public sparring, many foreign officials are also concerned about how the United States government will pay for Mr. Obama's proposed stimulus package, which could ultimately cost $1 trillion.
 A binge of new borrowing by Washington could effectively crowd out other borrowers by pushing interest rates higher over the long term, and would be especially painful for developing countries that rely on foreign capital. Or, it could stoke inflation when the global economy eventually begins to recover.
 Ernesto Zedillo, the former president of Mexico who helped steer his country through a financial crisis in 1994, said developing countries were already having a hard time finding the capital they needed without competing with increased borrowing by the United States. And his country does not have the option of printing money, he said, because the Mexican peso is not a reserve currency like the dollar.
 Even the praise for Mr. Obama from other leaders was balanced by criticism of Mr. Bush and past United States policies. ''He seems to be very keen to interact with other nations as equals, rather than talking down,'' said Kgalema Motlanthe, the president of South Africa. ''It is a breath of fresh air.''
 But for all the complaining from abroad, no other economic power -- not Europe, not Japan and not China -- seems ready to step up and fill the role traditionally played by the United States.
 ''The irony of the situation,'' said Mr. Haas, of the Council on Foreign Relations, ''is that everyone is still looking to the U.S. for leadership to fix things or at least make things better.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about foreign criticism of the United States' economic stimulus plans misspelled the surname of the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who commented on the level of global anxiety. He is Richard N. Haass -- not Haas. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Valerie Jarrett, one of President Obama's closest advisers, addressing leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS BALIBOUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); PASCAL LAMY (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



92 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Despite iTunes Accord, Music Labels Still Fret

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Last month the music industry and Apple, long uneasy partners, seemed a picture of harmony when they agreed on new terms for pricing on iTunes, Apple's online music store. 
 Behind the scenes, however, the relationship remains as tense and antagonistic as ever. 
 The announcement on Jan. 6 seemed to signal a rapprochement between the music industry and its biggest distributor: record companies gave up their demand for copyright protection (called digital rights management) and Apple allowed flexible pricing, so the labels could charge more for new or popular tracks. 
 But according to one music industry executive involved in the negotiations, Apple's primary goal was securing distribution of music over its iPhone, as mobile phones are expected to become an increasingly important outlet for music. 
 Disagreements over the timing of the changes also resulted in a particularly tense conversation on Christmas Eve between Steven P. Jobs, the chairman and chief executive of Apple, and Rolf Schmidt-Holtz, the chairman of Sony Music.
 A spokesman for Apple declined to comment, as did a representative for Sony Music. But chatter about Mr. Jobs's combative tone on the call ricocheted around the music industry, and it was regarded as another display of his tough bargaining tactics, made possible by Apple's position as the dominant seller of music.
 Mr. Jobs recently announced that he would step away from his day-to-day duties because of an illness. While Mr. Jobs's health problems have raised questions about Apple's operations, music executives expect their tense relationship with the company to continue. 
 In interviews, several high-level music executives, who spoke on the condition that they not be named to avoid angering Apple, said they operated in fear of Apple's removing a label's products from the iTunes store over a disagreement, even though that has never happened. The labels do not have much leverage in negotiating with Apple. 
 ''I think Steve has been smart, and he knows he has the upper hand,'' said Dave Goldberg, the former general manager of Yahoo Music who is now an entrepreneur in residence at Benchmark Capital, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm. ''They can't afford to pull their music.''
 One result of the dicey relationship is the increasing search by the music industry for a future in which Apple is not so dominant. Many executives say they believe the future of music buying is over the mobile phone, not from buying individual songs but by paying a monthly subscription fee to hear vast database of music. 
 But right now that is a tiny business in the United States. Forrester Research estimates that downloading music from Web stores like iTunes generated $1.5 billion in 2008, compared with just $70 million in wireless sales. Apple could win in this arena as well with its iPhone, but the music industry is looking to others, like Nokia, which offers its Comes With Music service, to become viable players.
 ''They're still the biggest game in town,'' said David Card, a digital music analyst at Forrester Research. ''It's really Apple and everyone else. I think the industry would rather have multiple outlets.''
 Apple, according to a music industry official involved in the negotiations, offered to negotiate variable pricing about a year ago. Most songs cost 99 cents, of which the label receives about 70 cents and Apple receives the remainder, although the breakdown varies slightly among the labels. 
 Apple indicated it was willing to make the switch to variable pricing provided that the music companies -- which negotiate individually with Apple to avoid colluding -- would agree to license songs for wireless downloads on the iPhone, as well as drop copyright protections using digital rights management, or D.R.M., software. 
 All the labels agreed except Sony Music. Its chairman, Mr. Schmidt-Holtz, wanted the pricing to go into effect right after the announcement, while Mr. Jobs wanted a longer time horizon. According to a person briefed on the telephone call, Mr. Schmidt-Holtz and Mr. Jobs had a heated exchange by phone on Christmas Eve. Eventually, Sony gave in and agreed to a longer waiting period. 
 Even if Mr. Jobs does not get personally involved in future negotiations, music executives still fear dealing with Apple. One chit the company holds is the power of the iTunes home page, where it promotes music. They also say that the entire Apple staff, including Eddie Cue, the vice president in charge of iTunes who handles the relationships with the record labels, do their best to follow Mr. Jobs's style in their own negotiating.
 Offline, the industry has long contended with dominant retailers like Wal-Mart, which is the biggest seller of CDs but has not been the cultural tastemaker that iTunes has become.
 ''Whether the industry likes it or not, the iTunes chart showing the most popular songs in America is a major influencer of how kids today discover and communicate with their friends what kind of music they like,'' said Charlie Walk, the former president of Epic Records, a unit of Sony Music. ''It's a very powerful thing right now in American pop culture and immediately validates a hit song.''
 In some ways, the tension stems from Apple's power over the industry, but it also echoes the traditional divide between suppliers and distributors. Several years ago, some labels withdrew their videos from the Yahoo Music service over a dispute about compensation. Before that, when MTV began in the early 1980s, the music industry eagerly provided videos in the belief that they would help sell records, though they later regretted having provided free content for the cable channel.
 ''They believe they created MTV, and will say they revived Apple,'' said Mr. Goldberg, speaking about the music industry in general.
 Mr. Card of Forrester, however, has a different take. ''If it weren't for Apple, God knows how bad the music industry would be,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The iTunes home page, Apple's soapbox for promotions. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (96%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); MUSIC STORES (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); COPYRIGHT (71%); COPYRIGHT LAW (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); CHRISTMAS (53%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); BENCHMARK CAPITAL (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



93 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BREAKING IN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2416 words

HEADLINE: A Shaper of Talent For a Changing Art World

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The wall labels were missing. The inventory needed to be finished. And where was the sign for the shuttle bus to the gallery, a former warehouse west of the Wynwood art district in Miami? Just hours before the opening party for ''It Ain't Fair,'' an exhibition of more than 30 emerging artists on the fringe of Art Basel Miami Beach, the glamorous, outsize international art fair held every year in early December, the O.H.W.O.W. gallery (for Our House West of Wynwood) was still strewn with forlorn boxes, the wall stacked with cases of beer that only hinted at the festivities to come.
''No one will ever know,'' Nicola Vassell, a director at the Deitch Projects gallery in Manhattan, said of the mess. Her comment was for Kathy Grayson, also a Deitch director and, like Ms. Vassell, one of several curators of ''It Ain't Fair.'' 
Ms. Vassell, 30, began working as an intern at Deitch in SoHo in 2005, when both optimism and price tags ran high. But by the time ''It Ain't Fair'' was poised to open, on Dec. 2, the previous month had easily seen the worst two weeks in the art market in more than a decade. A tumbling stock market and cascading problems on Wall Street had made buyers scarce, as the contemporary art world pondered the impact of broader economic woes. Ms. Vassell, a former model and a Jamaican immigrant, found herself facing the question of how to build a career in a suddenly contracting industry.
There is no single tried-and-true path to the gallery door. In interviews, dealers, curators, museum directors and others say that many successful dealers have had a mentor, academic credentials, a passion for art, a head for business and high-gloss social skills for a world that marries the aesthetic and the commercial.
Many of the front-desk gallery faces in New York City have belonged to those with money and a family pedigree. They could afford low-paying entry-level positions, or were prized for their connections to wealthy collectors. While the art world has always been sprinkled with female dealers, it was for a long time dominated by white men.
The art world was democratized, in part, by the same social upheavals that hit the larger society in the 1960s. Women increasingly hung out their own gallery shingles. The Studio Museum in Harlem opened in 1968 to showcase and nurture black artists, and by the 1980s more of them gained prominence and were part of an infrastructure of black academics, dealers and curators. In a robust economy the art market embraced globalization and multiculturalism. For all the changes, Ms. Vassell is the rare black director in a successful mainstream gallery, simultaneously the product of a changing world and the symbol of it.
''It's not a surprise that the director of a prominent, important gallery is black or is young or is a woman,'' said Arnold Lehman, director of the Brooklyn Museum, which has showed two of Ms. Vassell's artists. ''But when you run the three together, it sends a very important signal.''
Claude Grunitzky, the chairman and editor in chief of Trace, an arts and contemporary culture magazine, called Ms. Vassell ''a new kind of art gallerina,'' using the term with affectionate irony. Ms. Vassell, he said, ''is as comfortable with hedge fund guys as the artists on the street,'' and has the intellectual chops and the charm to weather a recession.
Synthesis of Many Worlds
''Even as a newbie, I knew the center couldn't hold,'' Ms. Vassell said in retrospect of the exuberant market. ''I think I represent the future of contemporary art and the synthesis of so many worlds that include contemporary art, like fashion. We can try taking it into the wider reaches of our culture in general, making it more accessible.''
Still, Ms. Vassell said she was aware that the downturn had a grim side: sales will slow, prices will fall, jobs and galleries may vanish. She does not foresee herself going anywhere, she said, but believes she has options. She ticked off work in museums, as an art adviser, or for an arts lobbying group.
''I've never been in a recession market in this country before,'' Ms. Vassell continued. ''But I am from Jamaica, where the banks collapsed when there was a recession. So many things temper my reaction to what happens in this country. I am a survivor.''
On an early January morning just weeks after Art Basel, Ms. Vassell was sitting at her desk near her boss and mentor, Jeffrey Deitch, in their loft-space office (up a spiral staircase past the Shepard Fairey poster of Barack Obama) in the Deitch Projects gallery at 76 Grand Street, one of two in SoHo. (There is a third space in Long Island City, Queens.)
Ms. Vassell had gotten in at 9:30 a.m. to check the e-mail messages from Europe. She had been out until about 2 a.m. the night before for the opening of the Stephen Sprouse retrospective at the Deitch gallery at 18 Wooster Street. One of the most important things on her plate was coordinating a meeting between Kehinde Wiley, a Los Angeles-born artist now based in New York, and the creative team from Puma, the athletic goods company.
Mr. Wiley's subversive paintings of young black men rendered in the style of classical portraits have made him hot in the current art world. By her count, Ms. Vassell has sold Mr. Wiley's paintings, which have gone for as much as $250,000 on the primary market, to at least a dozen museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum and the Detroit Institute of Arts. Last year he had major solo shows at the Studio Museum in Harlem and at 18 Wooster Street.
Mr. Wiley's legal team had just sent Ms. Vassell the Puma contract, which calls for him to create a collection of clothing and accessories for the 2010 World Cup -- to be held in Africa for the first time, in soccer stadiums in South Africa -- the kind of deal that Ms. Vassell sees as essential to the economic future of the contemporary art world.
Ms. Vassell set up Mr. Wiley's meeting while juggling projects for two other artists: Tauba Auerbach, a young abstract painter from San Francisco, and Nari Ward, who is from Jamaica and makes sculptures of found objects that are meant as social commentary. Ms. Vassell also works with the established Italian artist Francesco Clemente.
Her telephone conversations were short, mingling the art of the deal with the verbal air kiss. ''We've never bloated anything,'' she told someone calling about the price of a work. ''This is where we win in this market. It's beautiful. You have to come see it.''
When she was growing up in Kingston, Ms. Vassell said, ''art was the kind of thing you do when you can't become a doctor or lawyer.'' Growing to be almost 5 foot 10, she first tried her hand at modeling, arriving in New York in the summer of 1996.
In her 10 years in the fashion world Ms. Vassell appeared in major women's magazines, landed a contract with Cover Girl makeup and walked the runway for Calvin Klein. She made ''a lot more money'' than she does working for the gallery, Ms. Vassell said. But ''I wanted to do more with my life,'' she explained.
In 2002 she entered New York University to pursue a double major in art history and business. ''I just had a passion for learning about art and business,'' said Ms. Vassell, who is single, dates an artist and lives in a SoHo loft.
''Art was a synthesis of the things I loved,'' she said. ''I could write, I could sell, I could think, I could criticize.''
In 2004 she happened to run into Mr. Deitch at the Armory Show on the Hudson piers, which she was attending with fellow students. ''I heard someone call his name,'' Ms. Vassell recalled. 'We had studied him in school.''
Mr. Deitch is a legendary 56-year-old SoHo art impresario, known not just for his roster of important contemporary artists -- Vanessa Beecroft, Chris Johanson, Barry McGee -- but also for provocative projects. The gallery's installations have included a 1997 bit of art theater called ''I Bite America and America Bites Me,'' in which the Ukrainian-born performance artist Oleg Kulik lived in the gallery as a dog for a few days.
That day at the Armory Show, Mr. Deitch and Ms. Vassell began a conversation about art ''that just continued,'' he said.
''I'm looking for people with an artistic vision that's embedded in their personality,'' he said. ''Nicky has that.''
Mr. Deitch put Ms. Vassell to work stocking auction catalogs, but she quickly began taking on artists. In 2007 she became a director.
In the idiosyncratic gallery world the title of director comes with varying job descriptions. At his gallery, Mr. Deitch said, four directors, all women (there will be five beginning some time this month), manage artists. They can write books, organize shows, sell art and are assigned to work with their own group of artists.
At this point in her career Ms. Vassell has yet to ''discover'' a major star, but she helps shape careers. In the constant search for talent, she attends the master's thesis shows of art students at a variety of colleges and universities in the spring and the fall.
Finding artists who make art history as well as money is a dealer's dream. Last March Ms. Vassell organized her own exhibition, ''Substraction,'' at the Deitch gallery on Wooster Street, to showcase some of her talent: abstract paintings by six young artists, including Kristin Baker, whose canvases explore automobile racing (and crashes), and Dan Colen, whose paintings were splattered with what looked like pigeon droppings.
The public and glamorous face of the job includes the hundreds of parties held each year -- where Ms. Vassell, often in black and given to heels, is actually working -- and travel to the major art exhibitions in Switzerland, London, Venice and Miami. No one sees detail-oriented tasks, like creating a budget and production schedule for a forthcoming project, or sending packages of images of artists' work and their reviews off to museums to pique their interest. ''I do A to Z for the artists: if they broke their leg or left their girlfriend or they want a show in London,'' Ms. Vassell said.
'A Nose for Really Great Art'
The artist Mr. Wiley said of Ms. Vassell: ''In the last few years, it's like somebody who abides with you. She's got a nose for really great art. She comes by the studio, and we talk, and I can paint. It's a conversation that turns into an ability to communicate to the public what I'm trying to do.''
There is no particular career trajectory for a gallery director. These uncertain times, Ms. Vassell said, make it far less likely that any director with an urge to see her own name on the door will take that step. In the last decade, though, for those with dreams of running their own galleries, the art market's expanding possibilities could be seen literally in Chelsea. In 1994 Matthew Marks was the first major commercial gallery to move into the neighborhood. Now there are close to 330 active galleries there (more than in SoHo at its peak), according to a count by the Web site chelseaartgalleries.com.
''During the great expansion in the last five years, a lot of people from other worlds came in,'' said Sarah Thornton, author of ''Seven Days in the Art World,'' published by W. W. Norton last year, referring to the crosscurrents that brought models and designers into galleries and helped create and support skateboard art, surfer art, designer art.
During the boom, Ms. Thornton said, the money flowing on Wall Street meant that banks lent money to all kinds of people aspiring to become dealers, who in turn could sell art to the young hedge fund millionaires and billionaires who became the collectors driving up the prices.
One rainy Friday, Ms. Vassell used a car service to visit the San Francisco artist Ms. Auerbach, who had just moved to New York and into a roughly 1,000-square-foot studio with many windows in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn.
''She has the discipline, which a lot of young artists are lacking these days,'' Ms. Vassell said of Ms. Auerbach. ''The thing is to get her work into all the important collections in the world.''
Ms. Auerbach told Ms. Vassell, as they looked at the paintings in her studio, ''I've made all this work that is all half black and half white.'' Some of her newer work uses spray paint on shards of glass. The painting ''Shatter I,'' which went to Art Basel, looked vaguely like a giant dark flower.
''I've made a lot of work that is about opposites,'' Ms. Auerbach added. ''Now I'm trying to tie the element of chaos into the work.''
Ms. Vassell said, ''I'm going to have so much fun explaining this in Miami.''
In December at Art Basel Miami Beach, though, things were slow. At ''It Ain't Fair'' in Miami, a few miles away, only about a dozen of the 40 works sold, although Ms. Vassell said she was happy that the right collectors saw the show.
''It was like an art fair a dozen years ago, '' Mr. Deitch said gamely of Art Basel Miami Beach, adding that he had survived previous downturns. During the boom years his inventory sold in a matter of hours on the first day, he said. This year he ''covered our costs and a little more,'' he said. Some people came back and canceled purchases after being warned to be careful in this market, Mr. Deitch confided.
The bubble might have burst, but Deitch Projects still threw its annual party on the beach at the Raleigh Hotel on Collins Avenue in South Beach.
The sand was cool to the touch. Groups of grungy downtown kids and young couples in expensive jewelry danced, drank and sank into plush black sofas with oversize red pillows.
Ms. Vassell was surrounded by friends she considers her new family in the art world: artists like Mr. Wiley and Shinique Smith, who both live and work in Brooklyn; Franklin Sirmans, a curator at the Menil Collection in Houston; Emil Wilbekin, the editor in chief of Giant magazine. They gossiped, talked about their careers, about Barack Obama and the world of opportunities.
''There are so many possibilities,'' Ms. Vassell said hopefully. ''If you cut out the excess and extravagance, what you'll have is a return to personal creativity, a rich creativity that has nothing to do with how much money you have. It's what many of us came into this business for.''
Breaking In: This is the fourth in a series of articles following people trying to begin careers in the arts and examining how that process may have changed over the years. The previous articles have focused on a fledging ballet company; a vocalist, musician and composer who refuses to specialize; and on a rock promoter with a do-it-yourself aesthetic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHOWING THE BOSS AROUND: Nicola Vassell, a director at Deitch Projects in SoHo, with Jeffrey Deitch at a Miami exhibition space.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX AQUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
MAKING CONTEMPORARY ART MORE ACCESSIBLE: Top, Nicola Vassell, a director at Deitch Projects, in the gallery at 76 Grand Street in SoHo
above left, with works by Liz Renay, at the Miami Convention Center in December
and right, with the artist Kehinde Wiley in July at the Studio Museum in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPHS by FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ALEX AQUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MIAMI PRESENCE: An exhibition at the O.H.W.O.W. space, where Ms. Vassell was one of the Deitch curators.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX AQUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); BEER & ALE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



94 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Bonuses Still Have a Place

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
''Bonus'' is not a four-letter word. But you wouldn't know it from the noise emanating from Washington, Zurich and other capitals.
It is easy to see why bonuses are getting a drubbing. On one side are taxpayer bailouts of the financial industry. On the other are $18 billion of payments in the United States alone. It looks obscene.
One senator, Claire McCaskill, seems intent on abolishing incentive pay on Wall Street altogether. In Switzerland, the state-rescued UBS cut its bonus pool by 80 percent, after a popular outcry. 
The critics should be careful. The bonus is a pillar of the meritocratic capitalist system, which, despite its many recent failures, has mostly served democratic societies well.
The prospect of rewards for exceptional performance drives ambitious people to new heights of hard work and innovation. A bonus system is a great tool to help prevent workers from losing interest in the job. If structured properly, a bonus system binds workers to larger corporate objectives. It is also a form of compensation that can be adjusted for economic circumstances or company goals.
The problem for the financial business came from the misuse of this generally good system. The bonuses got too high for the public to stomach and the supergenerous packages were treated as entitlements. Bankers forgot that bonuses were supposed to be for the good years -- not just theirs but also their employers'. Investment banks convinced themselves they had to pay up, even when they lost money. What was incentivized was reckless behavior rather than genuine value creation.
The bonus addiction was exacerbated by the practice of paying even senior bankers relatively little in base salary. At least part of their bonuses was seen as standard pay, to bring them in line with peers in other industries.
Until the current financial crisis, the bonus debate was really a problem for bank owners, like the members of private partnerships like Goldman Sachs who did dip into their pockets from time to time and, more recently, for generally supine public shareholders.
Government recapitalizations and guarantees mean that taxpayers now shoulder a burden traditionally borne by shareholders. Many politicians are understandably aghast to find government cash being used to finance bonuses. Senator McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, has proposed that executives at companies receiving bailouts earn no more than the $400,000 salary drawn by President Obama, though nothing has yet been said about the substantial perquisites that come with the president's job.
A law capping big salaries would play well with some voters but could backfire if too many ambitious financiers went offshore (with some of the taxes they might have paid to the government) or into whatever is left of the shadow banking system. Too much money was sloshing around the financial industry. Yet that doesn't mean there should now be too little.
Of course, bankers should bear collective responsibility for poor performance, just as they reap the rewards of boom times together. Such pain comes in many forms. Many bankers have received sharply reduced bonuses. The New York State comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, reckons Wall Street's payouts were down 44 percent on average for 2008. Many bankers have lost their jobs. Moreover, the bulk of most senior bankers' net worth is tied up in their employers' shares because that is how the much-maligned bonus is paid. And the losses have been deep: big banks' stock prices are mostly down 50 to 90 percent in the past year.
The banks are trying to come up with bonus plans that are less generous to bankers, especially those who take too many risks. Morgan Stanley is clawing back some of its cash bonuses. UBS is holding bonuses in escrow to be taken back as a malus (the opposite of bonus) if the bank loses money. Credit Suisse is paying some top executives with securities that are backed by about $5 billion of dodgy assets on the investment bank's books.
These are all steps in the right direction. But until now efforts by banks to reform pay have been piecemeal and not especially transparent. Banks may be fierce competitors, but banding together now to agree on basic best practices -- and to firmly end the notion that a bonus is an entitlement -- would be a wise move before the pitchforks and torches arrive at the security desks in their marble lobbies.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Claire McCaskill would cap pay at bailed-out companies at $400,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CLAIRE MCCASKILL (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



95 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Small Payroll, But Big Woes On Insurance

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: BELLAIRE, Tex. 

 BODY:
When the bottom fell out of the automotive market last year, Amberly Allen's fast-growing direct-mail firm hit a wall in a hurry. 
 As orders from car dealerships fell by half, Ms. Allen deferred plans to hire more sales representatives. She put off buying the building she now leases in this Houston suburb. And in November, both she and her husband, one of her four employees, stopped drawing salaries. 
 Still that may not be enough to keep the four-year-old company afloat. Determined not to lay off any of her tight-knit band of workers, Ms. Allen is now agonizing over an equally unappealing option: whether to terminate the health benefits she provides for her employees and herself.
 Even before the recession, owners of the smallest businesses had struggled to absorb the inexorable annual rise in health premiums. The share of firms with fewer than 10 workers that offer health benefits has declined by 16 percent since 2001, to 49 percent, according to an annual survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust, while the rate in larger firms essentially stayed flat. 
 The economic downturn has only accelerated the pressure on small-business owners to pinch every penny, and many feel they have few options but to go after employee health coverage.
 Surveys suggest that rising premiums have prompted more than half of small businesses to reduce benefits, raise deductibles or require workers to shoulder a larger share of an ever more expensive pie.
 Workers in firms with fewer than 25 workers are now twice as likely to be uninsured as those in larger firms, according to the Employee Benefits Research Institute. For those small-business employees who do have insurance, the share with high deductibles has more than doubled in the last two years.
 Yet for many small-business owners, it can be excruciating to reduce or eliminate benefits for employees who have long been treated as family and who continue to work at their sides, every day. 
 ''When it's a small business, it's personal, and the impact is more emotional,'' Ms. Allen said. ''It's not just about dollars and cents. These are actual people, and they're very important to me. And I care about them.''
 With the help of her insurance broker, Ms. Allen is exploring whether her employees could afford individual health policies if she provided them with stipends equal to about half of what she now pays for their health care. She is also researching whether it may make sense to shift her workers to a personnel leasing firm with more affordable group coverage, and then rent them back.
 With her current insurance policy up for renewal on April 1, the clock is ticking. 
 ''Either way, I'm going to make sure they have coverage,'' said Ms. Allen, whose sales were stagnant in 2008 after two years of exponential growth. ''That's very important -- to make sure they don't feel I'm just cutting expenses and pulling the rug out from under them. 
 ''I have a good team in place and they take care of me. They're loyal, they work very hard, they're honest, and with the extra effort they put in, I want them to know it will be reciprocated, that I will take care of them.''
 Ms. Allen's current small-group policy with UnitedHealthcare costs the company $19,575 a year, equal to 17 percent of her payroll expenses. Although her workers have filed few reimbursement claims, premiums were set to rise 16 percent this year, said Carolyn L. Goodwin, her broker in Dallas. 
 ''You can't cut your rent unless you move, you can't cut your Internet, you can't cut your phone -- so where do you cut?'' Ms. Allen, 28, said. ''When you're not taking a dime out of the company, at some point you have to question whether you're just working to pay everyone else's bills.'' 
 Many small-business owners, like Monty J. Friebel, who co-owns a wood fabricating shop in Shelby, Ohio, have significantly increased the share of premiums that employees must pay, in his case to 46 percent from 15 percent a decade ago. Others, like Thomas L. Fritts, proprietor of T. L. Fritts Sporting Goods in Winnetka, Ill., have ended coverage for the children and spouses of employees and moved to plans with high deductibles.
 Lenin A. Paredes, owner of a title insurance company in Elizabeth, N.J., recently raised his employees' contributions and added a $1,000 deductible to their plan. Will L. Neilson, owner of a bistro in Bath, Me., said he had been reduced to manipulating the schedules of part-time workers so that they fell below his 30-hour-a-week threshold for benefits. Mark H. Jacobs, a partner in a family-owned sawmill in McMinnville, Tenn., finds himself considering replacing older, more experienced workers who leave with younger ones who would be cheaper to insure.
 Ms. Allen's employees at Direct Innovations -- the bulk of its business deals with automotive direct mail -- said in interviews that they understood the need to cut expenses. Each expressed confidence that she would find a way to protect their health coverage.
 ''If I was just a number, Employee No. 384, it might make me nervous, but with Amberly, I'm not worried at all,'' said Melissa G. Ornelas, 51, who signed on as vice president for business development at least partly because Ms. Allen had agreed to pay 95 percent of her health premiums. ''If it took her last penny, she would take care of me.''
 Mark D. Jones, 26, a production assistant who had been uninsured before Ms. Allen hired him, splits the cost of his coverage with the company. ''I can't foresee her saying, 'Sorry, I can't give you health insurance; hope you don't get sick,' '' Mr. Jones said. 
 None of the employees suffer from a chronic condition, although two are smokers, and none said that losing coverage alone would prompt them to leave the company. ''I'm just happy to have a job,'' Mr. Jones said. ''The thought of finding another one makes me cringe, because times are tough.''
 But it was also clear in interviews that the employees, and perhaps Ms. Allen herself, have not fully considered the potential consequences of ending employer-sponsored insurance -- even if a stipend replaces it. 
 A few weeks ago, Ms. Allen's broker provided her with quotes for individual policies from Aetna that would ostensibly save $6,235 a year in premiums for three of her workers. The premiums for each would be cut nearly in half. (With individual and small-group coverage, unlike large-group policies, customers can be charged varying rates based on their age, health status and claims experience.)
 But the prices do not tell the whole story. Aetna cannot guarantee it will cover the three workers until it reviews detailed medical histories. Then the insurer could rule out coverage for certain conditions, or charge more to include them. The quoted rates, Ms. Goodwin explained, could rise by as much as 50 percent. 
 There would also be tax implications. When employers pay for a worker's health insurance, that portion of compensation is not taxed as income. That would not be the case if Ms. Allen instead paid her workers a stipend for insurance. 
 In addition, Ms. Allen might not be able to fatten her workers' stipends enough to offset future increases in premiums. The deductibles and annual out-of-pocket maximums for the individual policies would be less generous. And mental health treatment and maternity care would not be covered.
 That poses a particular problem for Ms. Allen and her husband, Brian Dubiski, 40, who said they hoped to start a family soon. They said they might be forced to seek full coverage through another small business that Mr. Dubiski operates.
 A number of states have started programs to lighten the health care burden on small businesses through tax credits, pooling mechanisms and insurance regulation. President Obama, in his campaign, called for federal tax credits to encourage small businesses to provide coverage but also threatened to tax ''all but the smallest businesses'' if they did not contribute to their employees' health care. Mr. Obama has not yet formally proposed a health plan.
 The aid cannot come fast enough for businessmen like Mr. Fritts, of the Illinois sporting goods business. He saw his company's health costs rise 30 percent last year even as its sales plummeted by nearly 60 percent. He said it had been devastating last month to tell workers who had been with him for 15 years that they would have to start paying half of their premiums and that he could no longer insure their spouses and children.
 ''It was absolutely the toughest thing I've had to do as a business owner,'' Mr. Fritts said. ''It was heart-wrenching for my employees, very emotional. You feel like you're failing them. But it was either this or don't stay in business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amberly Allen, right, with workers at her Texas direct-mail business, is looking at whether to end health benefits to avoid layoffs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (88%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); SALES FORCE (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



96 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Passes Rent-Regulation Revisions Opposed by Landlords

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The Legislature on Monday took the first step toward a sweeping revision of the state's rent-regulation laws. 
 The Democratic-led Assembly passed a broad package of legislation designed to restrain increases on rent-regulated apartments statewide. The legislation would essentially return to regulation tens of thousands of units that were converted to market rate in recent years. 
 In addition, the legislation would reduce to 10 percent, from 20 percent, the amount that a landlord can increase the rent after an apartment becomes vacant; limit the owner's ability to recover a rent-regulated apartment for personal use; and increase fines for landlords who are found to have harassed their tenants as a way of evicting them. 
 The legislation would also repeal the Urstadt Laws' provision that in 1971 effectively took away most of New York City's authority to regulate rents and transferred it to the state. Opponents of the legislation are concerned that the New York City Council, known for its pro-tenant leanings, would enact laws that are unfavorable to landlords.
 ''For too long, representatives from upstate New York have had too much control over how New York City governs its housing policy,'' the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said. ''By repealing the Urstadt Laws, we can restore home rule and put authority back where it belongs -- in the hands of the local legislature.''
 The legislation is one of the first big policy initiatives taken up in Albany since Democrats assumed control of both chambers in January. The Senate, which for decades was controlled by Republicans, was widely viewed as an ally of the real estate industry.
 New York City has about one million rent-regulated apartments. Tensions have run high in recent years as developers have taken aggressive steps to convert some units to market-rate apartments to increase revenue.
 The city's biggest landlord interests, which have lobbied in earnest against the legislation, strongly objected to the Assembly's action on Monday.
 ''This is going to be very devastating,'' said Joseph Strasburg, president of the Rent Stabilization Association, a group that represents thousands of landlords and real estate agents in the city. ''New York City is the last big city in the country that has any strong form of rent regulation. And at a time when we have an economic recession, when rents are actually going down, this will put another nail in the coffin.''
 But Democrats in Albany cheered what they said was a step toward making living in New York more affordable for working families.
 ''It's a matter of fairness,'' said Jonathan L. Bing, an assemblyman who represents the Upper East Side. ''We're trying to give people a way to live out their lives in the neighborhoods they've been calling home for decades.''
 Linda B. Rosenthal, an assemblywoman who represents the Upper West Side, said that unless rent-regulation laws were changed, middle class people were at risk of being driven out of the city.
 ''Pretty soon we're going to end up with a city of the very poor and the very rich,'' Ms. Rosenthal said. ''Our social fabric will have been torn apart. And that is not what we want in the city of New York.''
 While the legislation has support among Senate Democrats, Majority Leader Malcolm A. Smith has said he will not take up rent regulation until the state's budget problems have been addressed. Mr. Smith has indicated that once a budget is passed -- presumably by March 31, when the fiscal year ends -- he will be open to debating the issue.
 Mr. Smith's office released a statement on Monday saying that while Senate Democrats have ''long been committed to protecting middle-income families by improving rent-regulation laws,'' they were now ''actively engaged in the executive budget hearings.''
 Still, with the Senate split 32-30 between Democrats and Republicans, few are predicting that the legislation will pass easily. ''With such a narrow majority in the Senate, every bill of importance will take a lot of negotiating,'' Mr. Bing said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITIES (88%); LOBBYING (78%); EVICTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FAMILY (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



97 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Baseball to Focus Attention on Gehrig's Disease

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Baseball came through. 
 On July 4, the 70th anniversary of Lou Gehrig's immortal ''luckiest man on the face of the earth'' speech, Major League Baseball will help fight the disease that bears the name of its doomed hero.
 In 15 home ballparks that day, baseball will seek to raise money and awareness of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., known as Lou Gehrig's disease, which currently has no cure. Major League Baseball will announce the details of this program Tuesday. 
 The event is the brainchild of Michael Goldsmith, 57, a law professor in Utah, who was given what he calls a ''death sentence'' in September 2006, the ominous signs of A.L.S. 
 Goldsmith's first impulse was to turn to the sport of his childhood, that nearly perfect world where players hit and run, pitch and catch. After a joyous week at a fantasy camp of the Baltimore Orioles, his favorite team as a boy in New York, Goldsmith began to identify with Gehrig, the great Yankee slugger who retired July 4, 1939, and died June 2, 1941. 
 In an article in Newsweek in November, Goldsmith challenged baseball to publicly take on the killer disease on the Gehrig anniversary, on the basis that baseball had gotten great mileage from the legend of Gehrig. Goldsmith's proposal was later amplified in The New York Times. 
 Then an amazing thing happened. Bud Selig, the commissioner of baseball, read Goldsmith's suggestion. And Selig called a meeting.
 ''Baseball is a social institution,'' Selig said the other day, referring to baseball's deep and daily roots. 
 Although baseball can be criticized for many things, the business often recognizes its civic role, taking up causes like remembering Jackie Robinson and other heroes, and fighting cancer and other diseases. Selig, 74, who is a legitimate baseball buff, has watched the 1942 Gehrig movie, ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' at least 50 times. 
 ''What I've always heard is that Gehrig was exactly as he was portrayed,'' Selig said. ''There's no question Babe Ruth was a great player, but people tell me, 'Commissioner, you don't know how great Gehrig was.' ''
 Selig was referring to Gehrig's 2,130-game streak from 1925 to 1939, a record until 1995; his career batting average of .340; and his 493 home runs. With legs like stone pillars, Gehrig also stole home 15 times. The only thing that slowed him was A.L.S., ''a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord,'' according to the A.L.S. Association.
 Goldsmith, who has a slower version of A.L.S., continues to teach at Brigham Young University and lobby against the disease. He has gained allies. Selig turned over the project to Jacqueline Parkes, the chief marketing officer for M.L.B., who, by total coincidence, had a personal connection. 
 Her father, Dr. James C. Parkes II, an orthopedic surgeon, was the Mets' team physician from 1974 to 1991. In 1995 he was told he had a neurological ailment that his daughter described as somewhere between A.L.S. and Parkinson's Disease. He died in 1999, at age 64. 
 Parkes said she was deeply pleased when Selig told her what they would be doing for the 70th anniversary.
 ''Typically, we don't do anniversaries except for 50 or 75, but there is nothing typical about A.L.S.,'' she said. 
 With Parkes at the point, baseball has forged a working partnership with four organizations: Project A.L.S.; A.L.S. Therapy Development Institute; the A.L.S. Association; and M.D.A.'s Augie's Quest, led by Augie Nieto, a co-founder of the company that created the Lifecycle exercise machine, who is battling his own case of A.L.S. 
 To Goldsmith's delight, he was included in every teleconference as Parkes organized the events for July 4, when 30 clubs will auction off items worn by players that day. In this current recession, there is concern about how much money can be raised for research, but clubs and players will be encouraged to contribute. Selig indicated that M.L.B. would make a contribution. 
 On the anniversary, Gehrig's speech will be read during the seventh-inning stretch -- the real one, written by Gehrig, a Columbia University man, and not the somewhat-altered version that was delivered by Gary Cooper in the movie. 
 Goldsmith said his own relationship with Gehrig had deepened over the months, ''helping me face my fears, face my demons.'' He added, ''I don't know if Gehrig was religious, but I do know how physically brave he was.'' 
 Goldsmith has also explored his spiritual side, ''what the Buddhists call learning to swim well through the ocean of suffering,'' he said. Lately, he has been reading Viktor E. Frankl's book, ''Man's Search for Meaning,'' the spiritual journey of a Holocaust survivor. 
 Goldsmith says he derives great solace from baseball.
 ''Their response has been in keeping with the 'Field of Dreams' image,'' he said, referring to the movie in which faith in baseball links the generations.
 ''They have been honest, straightforward, about everything,'' he said of the M.L.B. officials. ''They have exposed me to the sunny side of baseball, not just the financial side. They have a heart.''
 Goldsmith hopes to travel to a major league stadium on July 4 and read part of Gehrig's speech, at an event he envisioned and that baseball will make happen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Lou Gehrig's widow, Eleanor
catcher Bill Dickey
 and Manager Joe McCarthy in July 1941, a month after Gehrig's death.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CANCER (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); LOBBYING (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%)

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



98 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Moves In To the Nicer Hotels

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
BUSINESS travelers are generally fond of the hotel industry, which is a lot more than can be said of the airline industry.
 In the last 10 years, hotels have steadily improved products and services, and now we routinely expect consistency, convenience and comfort at hotels at most price levels. 
 Take bedding, for example. 
 Ten years ago, Westin Hotels introduced its multilayered Westin Heavenly Bed, and even began selling the beds online to happy customers. Competitors followed. Today, there is hardly a hotel in the midlevel category or above that doesn't feature high-quality bedding. 
 The hotel industry started a revolution in the retail bedding industry as frequent travelers came home and decided, as one female business traveler told me, ''My own mattress was junk and I needed to upgrade to hotel standards.'' Few travelers, it should be added, would talk of a wish to upgrade to ''airline standards.''
 Yes, times were good for hotel owners and managers in recent years, as demand and revenues surged. 
 But that's over now. Hotel companies are reporting steady decreases in revenue, occupancy and average room rates. For example, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, which owns the Westin, Sheraton and other brands, reported last week that revenue per room in North America fell 13.2 percent in the fourth quarter. Starwood said it anticipated ''a significant decline'' in worldwide room revenue this year, and planned a ''significant'' reduction in capital spending.
 The good news for business travelers is that pricing power has shifted strongly away from the seller to the buyer. So it's a great time to shop for bargains.
 But anxiety is rampant now in the hotel industry. Some owners are terrified as debt payments come due and revenue drops. Last week, PKF Hospitality Research said that hotel owners could be looking at ''one of the worst years on record,'' and that the number of full-service hotels in the United States lacking the cash flow to pay debts will increase by 25 percent this year. 
 How does the immediate future look from behind the front desk?
 Sagging demand and lower rates, said Anne Lloyd-Jones, the senior vice president of HVS Global Hospitality Services.
 ''Just as the room rate growth in 2008 was driven by strong demand and optimism from the year before, the influences in 2009 are the absolute opposite,'' Ms. Lloyd-Jones said. ''And no one knows yet what the bottom of this slump will look like.''
 Demand has dropped, but not evaporated, of course. More than ever, she said, demand ''is moving around,'' searching for value within different price levels. At the same time, hotel managers are struggling to maintain standards and to figure out how to price their product, and where to sell it.
 One new dynamic has people in the higher end of the industry confounded, incidentally. That's the palpable backlash against perceived corporate excess, which has been driven by reports of lavish spending by companies that had received federal bailout money. After such reports began surfacing last fall, corporate travel managers became wary of approving travel expenses at luxury brand hotels.
 For business travelers, it ''looked better on their expense sheet if they were staying at a Courtyard by Marriott,'' Ms. Lloyd-Jones said. 
 In this atmosphere, Marriott International, which owns the Ritz-Carlton hotel brand as well as Courtyard and others, had a problem that was different from what other luxury hotels were facing. The word ''ritz,'' as in ''ritzy'' or ''putting on the ritz,'' was right there in its title.
 Jack vanHartesvelt, who owns several luxury hotels including the Liberty in Boston, joked about such perceptions. ''The name Liberty can show up on an expense account at a room rate of, say, $365, and that's fine. Put that same rate down with the name Ritz, and people go, 'Hey, wait a minute!' ''
 But for all the pain now, both Ms. Lloyd-Jones and Mr. vanHartesvelt agreed, the hotel industry should be in a good position once the economy recovers. For one thing, the number of new hotels under construction or in active development is starting to decline, industry figures show.
 Even with a potential for a long-lived slowdown in demand, the current oversupply of hotel rooms will shrink to manageable levels. Some inferior hotels will simply close. Some projects under development will be abandoned. And new projects are not being planned in the same numbers a year ago. 
 Mr. vanHartesvelt is optimistic that business will pick up in two or three years. ''This is creating a window where in 2010 or 2012,'' he said, ''if you're a hotel, and if you can hang around that long, as the economy rebounds and demand rises with no addition in supply from the pipeline, you could find yourself in a fun business once again.'' 
 That's a lot of ifs. Meanwhile, if you're a fairly recent hotel investor, the biggest if is whether you'll be around to join in the fun. 
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (97%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (79%); AIRLINES (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); MATTRESSES (77%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); RESORTS (73%); CASH FLOW (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (55%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



99 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: What Are the Odds a Handy, Quotable Statistic Is Lying? Better Than Even

BYLINE: By BARRY GEWEN

 BODY:
THE NUMBERS GAME 
 The Commonsense Guide to Understanding Numbers in the News, in Politics, and in Life 
 By Michael Blastland and Andrew Dilnot 
 210 pages. Gotham Books. $22. 
 It's hard to resist a book that tells you that most people have more than the average number of feet. Or that researchers have found that Republicans enjoy sex more than Democrats do. Michael Blastland and Andrew Dilnot delight in bringing such facts to our attention -- and then in explaining them away. 
 Because of amputations, birth defects and the like, the average number of feet per person across the human population is slightly fewer than two. As for those randy Republicans, the information that matters is that men vote Republican more than women, and also say that they enjoy sex more than women say that they do. 
 ''The Numbers Game'' grew out of a popular BBC radio show called ''More or Less''; Mr. Blastland is the show's creator, and Mr. Dilnot its former host. Their book appeared in Britain two years ago under the title ''The Tiger That Isn't,'' and though it has been ''extensively revised'' for its American edition and, more mysteriously, given a new title, it still retains a British orientation. 
 That's O.K. Its examples travel well, as do the authors' lucid, unruffled style and their wholesome commitment to public enlightenment. ''The Numbers Game'' is no ''Fun With Math'' divertissement; its aim is to render its readers a little smarter about statistics, to make better citizens of them. It's a sugar-coated civics lesson.
 Most of us, Mr. Blastland and Mr. Dilnot observe, expect numbers to do too much. We like their precision and want to believe that statistics can tell us all we need to know about the world. But precision comes at a price: before you can count something, you have to define what it is you're counting, and often that's not as simple as it sounds. 
 Unemployment statistics, for example, conceal a host of decisions. How much can someone work and still be considered unemployed? How hard does a person have to be looking for a job? The Thatcher government changed the definition of ''unemployed'' either 23 or 27 times. (''There is some disagreement'' about the precise number, the authors blandly write.)
 Sampling is another headache. Most of the numbers we need involve populations too big to count one by one. As a result, we sample. But no matter how sophisticated the statistical techniques, they are still prone to error. Any American has only to think back to the polls during last year's primary season. 
 And that's with communicative human beings. Mr. Blastland and Mr. Dilnot describe Britain's efforts to count its hedgehog population (the National Hedgehog Survey) because of worries that this shy animal was in decline. They also discuss the Herculean -- but gravely important -- task of counting the fish in the sea.
 ''Uncertainty is a fact of life,'' they say, even if it's a given of human nature to look for meaning where there isn't any (see under: religion). They devote an entire chapter to chance to explain why the public sometimes sees a pattern where there is no such thing. 
 In 2003 the villagers of Wishaw, England, convinced that a recent rise in the incidence of cancer in their area was caused by a nearby cellphone tower, proceeded to lynch the tower, or, more accurately, pull it down in the dead of night. 
 What the villagers didn't know, the authors say, is that ''cancer clusters'' occur naturally, just as a coin tossed 30 times will probably produce at least one sequence of four heads or four tails. Tattoo this on your arm: a pattern doesn't always mean a plan. Throw some rice in the air and you will most likely see patterns in the way it lands. 
 Statisticians even have a name for the phenomenon: it's called the Texas Sharpshooter Fallacy. ''The alleged sharpshooter,'' the authors write, ''takes numerous shots at a barn (actually, he's a terrible shot -- that's why it's a fallacy), then draws his bull's-eye afterward, around the holes that cluster.''
 Public misinformation and even panic are fed by all sorts of people who draw post-hoc bull's-eyes: agenda-driven activists, incompetent or demagogic politicians, journalists who like a good story, clueless ''experts.'' 
 And don't forget the role of sheer laziness. In 1990 a book reported that lower-income parents read to their children a total of 25 hours in the years before they started school; for middle-income parents, the figure was between 1,000 and 1,700 hours. These statistics were then disseminated over several years by the news media, public-interest foundations and advocacy groups until they had taken on a life of their own. 
 Yet the sample for low-income families, as the book had noted, consisted of 22 households in Southern California; for the middle-income families, the author relied on her experience with her own son: a sample of one. Examples drawn from health statistics are even more hair-raising. 
 Mr. Blastland and Mr. Dilnot advise their readers to beware of weaselly phrases like ''could be as high as''; broad comparisons, especially international ones, that aren't really measuring like against like; and false correlations. Yes, it's true that people with big hands have better reading scores than people with small hands; it's also true that as we grow up, our hands get bigger.
 As instructive and amusing as it is, ''The Numbers Game'' has its shortcomings. The most serious problem concerns the authors' intentions. They do an excellent job of increasing our skepticism about those numbers thrown at us every day. But they don't want to go so far that their readers end up distrusting statistics altogether. Skepticism can too easily curdle into cynicism, which would make us worse citizens, not better. 
 They are aware of the issue, and conclude almost every one of their discussions with the mantra that statistics are an invaluable tool when used properly. Numbers, they say, are ''often all we have got, and ignoring them is a dire alternative.'' They're right, of course. 
 But reaching a proper balance between credulousness and disdain is difficult, and it would be interesting to know how many of their readers achieve it. Assuming, that is, that we can trust the numbers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The British authors Michael Blastland, left, and Andrew Dilnot.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATEY ADDERLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); STATISTICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

TITLE: Numbers Game, The (Book)>; Numbers Game, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



100 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: In a Tidal Shift, Chinese Are Spending More Money Overseas

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
More money is moving in a new direction in China -- out. 
 Some Chinese are so eager to turn their yuan into other assets that when an online real estate brokerage organized a tour of foreclosure auctions in the United States, it received so many applications that it had to turn away nearly 400 people.
 In Shanghai, cash-rich Chinese companies are buying high-yield bonds issued by distressed American companies at a time when many Western investors are steering clear of bonds even from solid companies. 
 All over the world, Chinese companies are sending home fewer of the billions of dollars they earn from exports, parking them in overseas bank and brokerage accounts instead. 
 And in Hong Kong, wealthy mainlanders are turning up at jewelry stores in growing numbers seeking diamonds, big ones.
 ''They're looking for five-carat diamond rings and six-carat diamond earrings -- three carats for each ear,'' said Yollanda Lam, the marketing manager for the King Fook jewelry store chain here. 
 Together, these trends represent a potentially tectonic shift. As Chinese citizens are starting to send more money out of the country, foreign investors are pulling money out too, and slowing the pace of new investment. 
 ''There is a recognition for sure that China is slowing down, so why keep your money there?'' said Henry Lee, a Hong Kong fund manager. 
 Nobody knows how long this trend will last. If China's series of economic stimulus measures are successful, then the Chinese economy could rebound later this year and start drawing back money on the same scale that it did over the last decade. 
 Total outflows in the fourth quarter were as much as $240 billion, but this is using the broadest possible definition and includes everything from capital flight to a slowdown in repatriation of overseas profits by Chinese companies. There is no good data assessing the motives of those moving money out of China. 
 Most troubling for China would be if a sizable portion of these disparate streams represented capital flight -- people taking their money out because they worry about the stability of the country. 
 Though there are myriad reasons to move capital around, there is also cause for concern: Chinese authorities announced Monday that 20 million migrant workers had lost their jobs. If they do not find new work, these workers could form a volatile class of unemployed. 
 Even more crucial, Chinese individuals and companies placing more of their money outside China could affect one of the constants of international finance over the last five years: China's central role in bankrolling American trade and budget deficits.
 To prevent China's currency, the yuan, from rising, the government has been buying up the dollars pouring into the country from trade and foreign investment, accumulating more foreign exchange reserves than Japan, Saudi Arabia and Russia put together. It has paid for the dollars by printing more yuan, and has invested at least two-thirds of the dollars in American securities, particularly Treasury securities.
 If considerably fewer dollars come in, China will not have the yuan to continue buying vast amounts of Treasuries, assuming it wants to keep buying them. 
 Over the weekend, China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, said, ''Whether China will continue to buy, and how much to buy, should be in accordance with China's needs, and depend on the safety and protection of value of foreign exchange.'' The statement, reported by the semi-official China News Service, was taken by some analysts as official ambivalence. 
 Right now, the challenge for economists is figuring out why money is leaving China -- and how long the trend will last. Torrents of cash are still pouring in from trade surpluses, as imports shrank faster than exports in the final months of last year. But that inflow has been nearly balanced in recent months by an outflow of private cash from the mainland and a slowing of investment.
 The quarterly pace of accumulation in China's foreign exchange reserves plunged 74 percent over the course of last year. In the fourth quarter, it reached $40.45 billion, the lowest point since the spring of 2004.
 Most economists say that actual capital flight seems the exception rather than the rule, and anecdotal evidence appears to bear that out.
 Jewelry stores in Hong Kong are a barometer of trends on the mainland, because Hong Kong stores do not charge the luxury consumption taxes imposed on the mainland and have a reputation for not selling counterfeits. Daniel Chun, the manager of Gaily Jewelry here, said he had seen an influx since December, with mainland Chinese mainly buying diamonds, either set in jewelry or as loose stones.
 Sales to mainlanders were 50 percent higher at Chinese New Year this year compared to a year ago, he said, but cautioned that it was impossible to determine how much of the increase represented worries about China's future.
 Yet the Hong Kong government said on Monday that retail sales of jewelry, clocks and watches fell 9.8 percent in December. While this may reflect plunging demand from local residents as Hong Kong's economy slowed suddenly, it also indicates that demand from visitors, a big part of the market, could not have increased very quickly.
 Hong Kong residents have been snapping up gold bars at a brisk pace in another sign of anxiety. Few mainlanders have been willing to take the risk of flouting the mainland's stringent gold import regulations, said Lin Tat Yin, a manager at Chow Tai Fook, a jewelry store chain.
 Another motive for money coming out of China may be simply a perception, among individuals and companies, that better bargains are available elsewhere.
 Soufun.com, an online real estate brokerage, is offering a tour for at least 40 people to San Francisco, Los Angeles, Las Vegas and New York City, starting on Feb. 24, and found that demand outstripped the spaces available. ''The people in the group are obviously interested in diversifying their investments, and the United States certainly is a very attractive location since real estate prices there have dropped drastically,'' said Zhao Xingyu, a manager organizing the tour.
 Chinese real estate industry executives say that there was considerable speculation here in recent years by overseas investors, especially overseas Chinese. Those purchases contributed to a bubble that peaked last spring and has gradually deflated since, removing the incentive for further real estate investments here.
 ''Certainly a lot of the Hong Kong money seems to be coming back,'' said Brad W. Setser, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.
 Beijing's slowing accumulations of Treasuries may be partly offset by Hong Kong's increased purchases of Treasuries, he said. 
 The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the American dollar, and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority typically buys more Treasuries to offset strong inflows of money. 
 Another reason less money could be flowing into China is the government's decision to halt the rise of the yuan against the dollar last July, and even to allow a short-lived decline against the dollar in late November. This removed the incentive for investors to put money into China in pursuit of currency gains.
 Stephen Green, an economist in the Shanghai offices of Standard Chartered, said in a research note that yet another important contributor to slowing flows of money into China this winter may be that hard-up retailers in the West have been waiting longer to pay for Chinese goods. If that is the case, more dollars may start entering China again soon.
 Two agencies have primary responsibility for regulating the movement of money in andout of China -- the People's Bank of China, which is the central bank, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is part of the central bank but enjoys considerable independence. Officials from both agencies have said conspicuously little about capital flight in recent weeks.
 The central bank and the exchange administration were supposed to limit unauthorized investment, often described as ''hot money.'' But they had limited success over the last five years, said Victor Shih, a specialist in Chinese finance at Northwestern University.
 ''They never admitted there was hot money in the first place,'' Mr. Shih said, and with a portion of that money now leaving, ''some parts of the government don't want to admit it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers at a Hong Kong jewelry store. More mainland Chinese are buying expensive pieces.
 The King Fook jewelry store in central Hong Kong, where mainlanders can avoid steep luxury consumption taxes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIE JOHNSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: SLOWER ACCUMULATION OF CASH: China's foreign reserves continue to rise, but at a much slower rate than in recent quarters. (Source: People's Bank of China, via CEIC Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JEWELRY STORES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); AUCTIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (72%); DEBT FINANCING (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); RETAILERS (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (64%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%); LAYOFFS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); DISMISSALS (60%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



101 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 508 words

 BODY:
The New Old Age
 From Jane Gross's blog, nytimes.com/newoldage.
 ''She told us she was going to do it. To kill herself. She wanted us to be prepared.''So begins a post by Hawley Roddick, a blogger on Open Salon. A colleague sent me the link knowing that my mother had chosen to end her own life by voluntarily refusing hydration and nutrition. 
 I've written several times about my mother's decision, and I've been stunned by the volume of reader response, particularly the overwhelmingly sympathetic reaction to an idea I had expected to shock and offend. With a few exceptions, readers considered my mother's decision valorous, her planning thoughtful, and her humor at such a dark time very appealing.
 A very different set of circumstances may explain a number of replies to Ms. Roddick's post that are far more hostile than any I have received. But for me, the takeaway of reading both sets of comments is that America's denial of death, especially among the elderly, may be fading as more and more of us witness it and live it up close.
 Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 Before he agreed to cook for the Obama family in the White House, the Chicago chef Sam Kass was already talking about changing the way American children eat.
 During weekly Tuesday gatherings at the Jane Addams Hull-House Museum in Chicago, Mr. Kass hosted ''Rethinking Soup,'' which he described as ''a communal event where we will eat delicious, healthy soup and have fresh, organic conversation about many of the urgent social, cultural, economic and environmental food issues that we should be addressing.''
 In May, over a meal of locally produced beef and barley soup, Mr. Kass lamented the sorry state of the National School Lunch Program, which provides low-cost or free lunches to schoolchildren.
 He noted that what gets served up to kids is influenced by government agricultural subsidies. As a result, he said, student meals are low in vegetables and high in fat, additives and high-fructose corn syrup. (He also links sugary foods and additives to learning difficulties and attention deficit disorder, although doctors remain divided on that
 issue.)
 Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 Should earth-watching satellites be in the stimulus bill? 
 Whether or not you share the world view of the Heritage Foundation, you're likely to enjoy the tool it has helped post online.
 At ReadTheStimulus.org, you can search the Senate and House economic stimulus bills for pork, find hints of parochial interests or seek evidence of spending on climate change research, as a critical entry on the Heritage Foundation's blog did last week. 
 Both bills would spend ''$600 million for accelerating satellite development and acquisition, acquiring climate sensors and climate modeling capacity, and establishing climate data records.'' They also call for at least $140 million for climate modeling.
 Regardless of the merits of such research, does it fit in a bill meant to exploit unoccupied labor in an economic downturn?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CHILDREN (86%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (72%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); AGRICULTURE (61%); CLIMATOLOGY (60%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



102 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Where Snow Has Fallen, Plow Thefts Have Risen

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
With snowfall heavy this winter and the economy in decline, thieves are turning to a new target: snowplows. 
 Reports of stolen trucks and plows are on the rise in many cold-weather states, and the authorities suspect that people who have lost their jobs or are looking for extra work are stealing the plows and setting up shop or selling them to plow drivers in need of new equipment. 
 ''There's a lot of people out of work,'' said Maj. Ralph Bubar III of the Johnston, R.I., Police Department, which has investigated five plow thefts this winter. ''Snowplowing is a nice, easy way to make money off the books. The thefts started early October and got progressively worse as the snowstorms started.'' 
 The problem is most acute in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. In Rhode Island, there have been at least 20 reports of stolen plows this winter, said Michael Carpenter, an agent with the National Insurance Crime Bureau, a nonprofit industry group devoted to fighting auto theft and insurance fraud. 
 Most of the thefts involve people who steal a truck with a snowplow attached, abandoning the truck and taking the plow, said Rhode Island authorities, who are investigating whether an organized ring is stealing plows in Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts. 
 ''They've left the trucks in very public places, in parking lots,'' Major Bubar said. ''They're not hiding in the woods. They're leaving the trucks where they can be easily found and returned to their owners. It's the plow and sanding equipment they're targeting.'' 
 The average plow blade is worth $5,000 to $7,000.
 The crimes are difficult to solve because plows are so hard to distinguish from one another, Major Bubar said. Few, if any, have distinctive markings, and serial numbers are easily scraped off. 
 Newer plow blades are much easier to pop on and off trucks, allowing thieves to transfer the blade from one truck to another in minutes. Older plows rely on a system of winches and pins, the authorities said. 
 ''As they're more sophisticated and easier to hook up, they're more valuable on the black market,'' Major Bubar said. 
 The notion of an underground market in snowplows is taking many law enforcement officials by surprise. 
 ''This is the first time I've seen it in the 25 years since I've been a police officer,'' said Capt. John Dougan of the Quincy, Mass., Police Department. Three plow blades, one belonging to the city, were stolen during one December weekend. 
 Thefts of plow blades have also been reported in Attleboro and Methuen, Mass.; Gorham, N.H.; Lakewood and Longmont, Colo.; Rockford, Ill.; and Eatontown, N.J. 
 While the thefts are new to many municipalities, they are not unheard of. In 2006, someone stole 40 plow blades, mounting units and a flatbed trailer from a car dealership in Concord, N.H., a loss estimated at $60,000, said Heidi Jordan, an agent with the National Insurance Crime Bureau who covers northern New England. 
 In Rhode Island, the authorities are urging snowplow owners to keep their plows chained up and to carve some sort of identifying marker into them. 
 Keith DiPetrillo had a plow stolen from his business, Superior Lawn in Johnston, R.I., in November. The plow was in a fenced-in, locked area next to a garage. Mr. DiPetrillo said someone broke into the truck and drove it away. The stolen truck was found in Pawtucket, about 12 miles away. 
 Mr. DiPetrillo said that the plow was worth about $5,000, and that he had to buy another one. 
 ''It's been happening a lot,'' Mr. DiPetrillo said. ''I know quite a few people who have been hit.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); WEATHER (73%); INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INSURANCE FRAUD (72%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSURANCE CRIME BUREAU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (50%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



103 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Risking The Future

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I wonder what it will take to get this country serious about repairing and rebuilding its crumbling and increasingly obsolete infrastructure.
 The catastrophe in New Orleans didn't do it. Yes, that was an infrastructure tragedy. As the historian Douglas Brinkley wrote in his remarkable book, ''The Great Deluge'':
 ''What people didn't yet fully comprehend was that the overall disaster, the sinking of New Orleans, was a man-made debacle, resulting from poorly designed levees and floodwalls.'' 
 And the spectacular rush-hour collapse of the Interstate 35W bridge over the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, which killed 13 people, was not enough to get us serious.
 Not even the terrible economic downturn that has gripped the country -- a downturn that could be eased by a truly big-time surge of infrastructure investment -- has been enough to get the leaders of the country to do the right thing.
 We're rushing to bail out the banking industry for what? What kind of country will we have once the bankers are fat and happy again? The U.S. will still be a nation with a pathetic mid-20th-century infrastructure struggling to make it in a dynamic 21st-century world. It's a blueprint for sustained national decline.
 The reason to seize this particular moment to move with a laserlike focus on the infrastructure is because of the desperate need to stop the advancing rot, and because rebuilding the infrastructure is a phenomenal source of employment.
 The American Society of Civil Engineers, in a report released last week, essentially described the state of American infrastructure as dreadful. More than a quarter of the nation's bridges were rated structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. Public transportation systems and the nation's dams and levees are generally in sorry shape, many of them more than a half-century old.
 Listen to what the report had to say about the water we drink:
 ''America's drinking water systems face an annual shortfall of at least $11 billion to replace aging facilities that are near the end of their useful life and to comply with existing and future federal water regulations. This does not account for growth in the demand for drinking water over the next 20 years. Leaking pipes lose an estimated seven billion gallons of clean drinking water a day.''
 The society gave the nation's infrastructure an overall grade of D and said it would require an investment of $2.2 trillion over five years to get it back into decent shape.
 When you juxtapose this tremendous national need with the wholesale destruction of employment that has occurred over the past several months (and that is expected to continue for some time), you have to wonder why President Obama and Congressional leaders are not moving with extraordinary quickness to put together an infrastructure investment program that is both vast and visionary.
 Instead, we have infrastructure spending in the Democrats' proposed stimulus package that, while admirable, is far too meager to have much of an impact on the nation's overall infrastructure requirements or the demand for the creation of jobs.
 Among those who have expressed their concerns publicly is Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat and persistent advocate of infrastructure investment. Just prior to President Obama's inauguration, Mr. Rendell said of the stimulus package being considered by the House: ''Anybody who thinks -- if the president-elect thinks, or the team thinks -- that this is the answer to America's infrastructure needs is in a different universe.''
 The big danger is that some variation of the currently proposed stimulus package will pass, another enormous bailout for the bankers will be authorized, and then the trillion-dollar-plus budget deficits will make their appearance, looming like unholy monsters over everything else, and Washington will suddenly lose its nerve.
 The mantra (I can hear it now) will be that we can't afford to spend any more money on the infrastructure, or on a big health care initiative, or any of the nation's other crying needs. Suddenly fiscal discipline will be the order of the day and the people who are suffering now will suffer more, and the nation's long-term prospects will be further damaged as its long-term needs continue to be neglected.
 We no longer seem to learn much from history. Time and again an economic boom has followed a period of sustained infrastructure investment. Think of the building of the Erie Canal, which connected the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean. Think of the rural electrification program, the interstate highway system, the creation of the Internet. 
 We're suffering now from both a failure of will and of imagination. I remember the financier Felix Rohatyn telling me, ''A modern economy needs a modern platform, and that's the infrastructure.''
 History tells us the same thing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIVERS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (75%); BANK FAILURES (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); HISTORY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (66%); ENGINEERING (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



104 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Australia Cuts Key Rate and Plans More Stimulus

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Australia announced another major stimulus plan and its central bank delivered a deep cut in interest rates on Tuesday as the country sought to prop up growth. 
 The main driver of Australia's economy -- a boom in mining -- has fizzled amid the global economic downturn. 
 The government said it would spend $42 billion Australian dollars, or $26.5 billion, on infrastructure, schools, housing and payments for low-income earners. Last year, Australia announced several measures as the economic slowdown in the United States and Europe began to spread around the world and engulf the economies of the Asia-Pacific region. 
 ''The weight of the global recession is now bearing down on the Australian economy,'' Wayne Swan, Australia's treasurer, said in a statement. ''In the midst of this global recession it would be irresponsible not to act swiftly and decisively to support jobs.'' 
 Under the plan, the budget deficit is expected to swell to 22.5 billion Australian dollars ($14.2 billion), or 1.9 percent of the country's gross domestic product. 
 ''Decisive action is now required to strengthen the Australian economy and in these circumstances, a temporary deficit is the only responsible course of action to support jobs and economic growth,'' Mr. Swan said. 
 The Australian government has estimated that the global recession, which has also caused growth to slow sharply in China, has wiped a total of 115 billion Australian dollars ($72.6 billion) in revenue. China is a major consumer of raw materials.
 Governments around the world have announced a flurry of stimulus packages since last September and many, like the Australian government, have since bolstered their original plans as the crisis worsened. 
 Central banks around the globe have also cut interest rates in many cases to historic lows in a bid to stimulate growth. 
 By cutting another full percentage point off the cost of borrowing, Australia's central bank set the key cash rate at 3.25 percent. That takes the total rate cut since September to 4 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (99%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



105 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Angels Flee From Tech Start-Ups

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER and BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Technology entrepreneurs are having a devil of a time finding angels. 
 Angel investors are the optimistic financiers who give entrepreneurs their crucial first infusion of cash to bring their ideas to life. Now, in the midst of a punishing economic downturn that is sparing few companies, these patrons are cutting back on their bets and threatening the very foundation of the technology economy. 
 Unlike venture capitalists, angels invest small amounts of their own money -- as little as $10,000 and usually less than $1 million -- in very young companies. But like all investors, many angels suffered deep losses when the market plunged last fall. 
 That has left them skittish, investing in fewer technology start-ups and demanding more of those they do consider, leaving founders struggling to find money at the stage they need it most. The slowdown, entrepreneurs and investors say, could stunt the growth of new companies and have long-term effects on innovation. 
 For TwoSmartDogs, an Internet start-up in Los Angeles that was building an online hub for adult education classes, this sudden pullback was disastrous. 
 In 2007, the company raised $715,000 in its first round of angel financing from eight investors. When the founders approached current and new investors for more capital in September, they were met with silence. 
 ''There was real interest,'' said Rose Ors, a founder of the company. ''But the economic meltdown ended all conversation.''
 Unable to raise money, Ms. Ors and her partners decided to shut down the company and look for new jobs. 
 The angels who rejected them are not unusual. Half of the investors surveyed in November by the Angel Capital Association, the industry's trade group, said they invested less than they had predicted in 2008, and one-third said the number of deals and dollar amounts they invest would decrease again this year. 
 ''Crashes make liquidity vanish, and venture investing -- especially angel investing -- runs on liquidity,'' said Steven McGeady, an angel investor and former executive at Intel. ''When the markets go wonky, everyone sits on cash until the situation resolves itself. This makes capital hard to find, and if a company is caught unprepared or at the wrong time, that can be the end.'' 
 Many professional angels -- those who invest as a full-time job, rather than as a side project -- are still financing start-ups, if at a slower pace. They say the best opportunities come during downturns, as companies' valuations fall significantly. The median valuation of start-ups seeking angel financing fell 25 percent, to $3 million, from the third to the fourth quarter of 2008, according to Angelsoft, a Web service for angel investors and entrepreneurs.
 ''It's getting tougher for companies to raise money, but I think the good ones are still getting it done,'' said Ron Conway, a prominent professional angel investor in Silicon Valley who has invested in companies including Google and Facebook.
 Yet unlike Mr. Conway, most angel investors are hobbyists -- wealthy friends and relatives of entrepreneurs who invest as a way to diversify their portfolios -- and they have been hit the hardest. 
 Dan Martin, an angel investor based in San Francisco who made millions when his family sold its aerospace contracting business in 2003, has invested several hundred thousand dollars of that in a handful of start-ups. 
 Last year, though, the Martin family's stock holdings lost close to 30 percent of their value. Now the Martins are shying away from risky angel investments and looking elsewhere for returns, including in undervalued public companies. 
 Investing in the stock market ''smells to me like a much better opportunity than investing in the friend of a friend who wants to open a green Chuck E. Cheese restaurant or software to let people choose their dental implants,'' Mr. Martin said. ''Those could be great ideas. But that versus Pfizer stock is an easy choice for us right now.'' 
 During normal economic times, several years after a start-up raises angel financing, it seeks larger amounts of money from venture capitalists to grow. But as venture capitalists also cut back on investments, many angels are wary of investing in a start-up without the assurance that the company will be able to raise more money to keep growing. 
 ''A lot of companies view us to be the on-ramp to the venture capital superhighway, and a number of angels are less convinced that they should count on the superhighway this year,'' said John O. Huston, chairman of the Angel Capital Association. 
 Some angels are considering only low-cost companies that could become profitable without venture financing. Others are acting less like angels and more like venture capitalists, spending much more time than is typical advising companies, including taking seats on boards. 
 Aydin Senkut, a former Google employee who has invested in 40 companies, is serving on the board of one of his investments, ImageShack, a media hosting site, and spends two hours a week working at the start-up. ''Where I can really help is building the next growth stage,'' he said. 
 Some angels who are still investing have become pickier, making demands of start-ups that they would not have a year ago. When David Levine started Wireless Environment, which makes motion-sensor light-emitting diode bulbs, in November 2006, he quickly raised $135,000 from family members and business school friends, with few questions asked. 
 The angel investors he met with this fall, though, were far more demanding. ''I could not believe the complexity,'' he said. ''For small investments compared to their net worth, they brought in financial advisers and a whole list of questions.'' 
 Some made impossible requests, like proof of patents, which take several years to acquire. Others would not even meet with him. ''I think we have a very compelling business, we've hit all our milestones. I set up lunches with friends and they just keep putting them off,'' he said. 
 In December, he raised $400,000 in convertible debt from JumpStart, a nonprofit organization that makes early-stage investments in companies in northeast Ohio. Because it took so long to raise money, Wireless Environment has been forced to slow its growth, focusing on its technology at the expense of inventory and sales. 
 Some angel investors are putting less of their own money on the line by finding other people to invest with them. Co-investments increased in 2008, according to the Center for Venture Research, and half of those surveyed by the Angel Capital Association said they would increase co-investing with other angels this year. 
 Since Drew Smith retired as a venture capitalist three years ago, he has invested around $25,000 in each of four young companies, including a market research software start-up and one that makes technology to play Web videos on phones. 
 Now, he said, ''I'm cutting back. For me to make an individual investment on the order of $25,000, it would have to be a really great opportunity.'' Instead, he is investing smaller portions alongside other investors. ''I can reduce my bite size a little bit in terms of what goes into each investment, but still stay active.'' 
 The real impact will hit Silicon Valley two or three years down the road, said Mark Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association. That is when start-ups that receive angel financing today would typically turn to venture capitalists for their first round of institutional investments, known as a Series A. 
 ''If we don't have angels, that hurts us. Where are we going to be gettingour next Series A deals if those entrepreneurs aren't out there with the ability to move their idea forward?'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a growing reluctance of angel investors to finance technology start-ups misstated the status of TwoSmartDogs, a company that was unable to raise money for its online hub for adult education classes. While the company's Web site is not being updated, it is still operating; it has not been shut down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drew Smith, an angel investor in Portland, Ore., has invested $25,000 in each of four start-ups, but now he is cutting back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA KRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rose Ors, a founder of TwoSmartDogs, a Web site based in Los Angeles, abandoned her plans and is looking for a job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); STARTUPS (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (79%); EQUITY FINANCING (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (59%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



106 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: As the Recession Worsens, Consumers Save More and Spend Less

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
American consumers and businesses are embarking on an era of thrift as the recession deepens, saving more money as they cut spending on purchases as varied as sweaters, new homes and office towers. 
 That was the picture painted by two government reports released on Monday. One showed that Americans cut their spending for a sixth month in December as they worried about losing their jobs and earning less in a deteriorating economy. The personal saving rate in the last three months of 2008 rose to its highest level in six years. 
 In another report, the Commerce Department said that construction spending in December declined 1.4 percent from November as housing values continued to fall and credit markets remained tight. Spending on residential construction in December dropped 22 percent from the same month a year ago. 
 ''If households are shying away from spending, what's going to cause businesses to start spending again?'' asked Aaron Smith, senior economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. 
 Putting away money and paying down debt may be good for one family's kitchen-table economics, but the broader economy suffers in the short term when millions of families do it. 
 A dollar saved does not circulate through the economy and higher savings rates translate into fewer sales and lower revenue for struggling businesses. As Congress considers an $800 billion package of tax cuts and spending plans, policy makers said that the most effective stimulus was money that would be spent quickly. 
 Still, some economists said the rising rate of savings was a natural reaction, penance for America's spendthrift ways.
 ''If American consumers are less indebted, live within their means and have more money in savings, they are better positioned to spend on a sustainable basis for years to come,'' said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. ''As painful as that is economically in the short run, these developments will better serve us in the long run.''
 The personal saving rate of 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 was the highest since early 2002, when the country was recovering from the dot-com recession and the shock of the 9/11 attacks. The savings rate rose to 3.6 percent in December, from 2.8 percent in November. 
 The gains have come even as interest rates drop to negligible levels. According to a weekly Bankrate.com survey, the average one-year certificate of deposit paid 1.63 percent interest, while average money-market accounts paid 0.54 percent interest. 
 On average, Americans have saved about 7 percent of their disposable income since 1929, but that figure dropped to virtually nothing several years ago. 
 The Federal Reserve cut interest rates to stimulate growth, and Americans took advantage of easy credit to finance trips to the mall, remodeling projects and new cars. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of growth.
 But that spending largely dried up as home values fell and credit tightened, and the drought is likely to continue. 
 ''The whole economy was leveraged up, and we're now suffering the consequences,'' said Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital, who offered early warnings about the current economic calamity. ''The problem is, that's a painful process. When you have an economy that's used to all this spending and borrowing and you take it away, it's going to go through some pains.''
 In the last three months of 2008, the economy contracted at its fastest pace in a quarter-century. As Americans spent less, companies cut jobs and reduced their investment in equipment, software and buildings to trim their costs.
 ''The weakness is feeding on itself,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS. ''You've had the spread of weakness from housing to Wall Street to main street. You've got a credit crunch, which is now affecting every part of the economy, including the consumer.''
 The department store chain Macy's became the latest to cut jobs, saying on Monday that it would dismiss 7,000 workers or about 4 percent of its work force.
 The unemployment rate, at 7.2 percent, is at its highest in 16 years, and some economists say it is likely to top 9 percent in this downturn. The economy shed about 1.9 million jobs in the last four months of 2008, and is losing more than 500,000 a month. 
 Economists predict that when the government releases the January data on Friday, the unemployment rate will rise to 7.5 percent.
 Over all, personal spending fell 1 percent or an annualized $102.4 billion in December, after a drop of $77.8 billion in November, the Commerce Department reported. 
 Adjusted for price changes, real income increased 0.3 percent in December, while real spending fell by a slightly lower 0.5 percent. The so-called real rates reflect the continuing relief that lower gasoline and energy prices have offered consumers in a recession that began in December 2007. 
 Spending on durable goods fell 0.8 percent in December while purchases of nondurable goods fell 1.8 percent, after increases in November. 
 ''Consumers are rational,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR. ''They respond to incentives and conditions, and right now the conditions and incentives are: spend as little as you can, and pay down as much as you can. You hunker down. That's what the consumer's doing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (65%); TAX LAW (65%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (60%); DISMISSALS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



107 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: A New Home for New York Fashion Week

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
After holding runway shows under a big tent in Bryant Park for 15 years, organizers of New York's Fashion Week are expected to announce on Tuesday that they will move the event to Lincoln Center, beginning in 2010. 
 The twice-annual event, which is estimated to draw more than 100,000 visiting store buyers and fashion editors, has been under increasing pressure to find a new home after complaints from the park management that the invitation-only shows had grown too large and were restricting public access to the park.
 Two designers who typically show in the park said they had been told that the new location would be Lincoln Center, but Zach Eichman, a spokesman for IMG, which produces the shows, declined to comment.
 Although the fashion shows, now operating as Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week to reflect a corporate sponsorship, were welcomed in Bryant Park in 1993, there were frequent clashes with the management company that controls its maintenance and security. 
 The dispute intensified in 2006, when the Bryant Park Corporation announced it would no longer allow the shows to happen in the park, because they were interfering with plans to operate a skating rink in the winter and public use of the main lawn in the late summer. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was then asked by designers, as well as Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, to intercede on their behalf, leading to an arrangement for Fashion Week to remain there, at least temporarily. 
 About 63 designers are expected to present their fall 2009 collections in the park starting on Feb. 13, although hundreds of other shows are scheduled at galleries and event spaces around Manhattan. The event generates $466 million in visitor spending each year, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
 Finding a new home has not been easy for the designers, many of whose businesses are nearby on Seventh Avenue. Fern Mallis, the senior vice president of IMG Fashion, has looked at locations including a space on top of the Port Authority Bus Terminal. A one-season attempt to have the shows at the Chelsea Piers in 1997 was a logistical disaster, as many guests found themselves struggling to get there, or otherwise get out. 
 It is not clear whether IMG hopes to recreate the tents on the plaza at Lincoln Center or use nearby buildings for additional space, but a feasibility study done in 2006 suggested staging tents on opposite sides of the New York State Theater with a corridor winding between them, meaning guests might have to walk the equivalent of a city block between each show.
 Daniel A. Biederman, the head of the Bryant Park Corporation, criticized the event in 2006 for causing ongoing disruptions, but ultimately relented. Phone calls to Mr. Biederman were not immediately returned on Monday. IMG pays $1 million to $1.5 million to use the space each season, according to an IMG executive who spoke on condition of anonymity because the company does not typically release any figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (93%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%)

COMPANY: PARK CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



108 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Ward Three Morality

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I've become increasingly concerned about the rising number of rich people who are being caught unawares by shifts in the sumptuary code. First, there were those auto executives who didn't realize that it is no longer socially acceptable to use private jets for lobbying trips to Washington. Then there was John Thain, who was humiliated because it is no longer acceptable to spend $35,000 on a commode for a Merrill Lynch washroom. 
 Then there are the Wall Street executives who were suddenly attacked from the White House for giving out the same sort of bonuses they've been giving out for years. Now there is Tom Daschle, who is being criticized for making $5 million off his Senate prestige. 
 I'm afraid there are rich people all around the country who are about to suffer similar social self-immolation because they don't understand that the rules of privileged society have undergone a radical transformation. 
 The essence of the problem is this: Rich people used to set their own norms. For example, if one rich person wanted to use the company helicopter to aerate the ponds on his properties, and the other rich people on his board of directors thought this a sensible thing to do, then he could go ahead and do it without any serious repercussions. 
 But now, after the TARP, the auto bailout, the stimulus package, the Fed rescue packages and various other federal interventions, rich people no longer get to set their own rules. Now lifestyle standards for the privileged class are set by people who live in Ward Three.
 For those who don't know, Ward Three is a section of Northwest Washington, D.C., where many Democratic staffers, regulators, journalists, lawyers, Obama aides and senior civil servants live. Thanks to recent and coming bailouts and interventions, the people in Ward Three run the banks and many major industries. Through this power, they get to insert themselves into the intricacies of upscale life, influencing when private jets can be flown, when friends can lend each other their limousines and at what golf resorts corporate learning retreats can be held. 
 The good news for rich people is that people in this neighborhood are very nice and cerebral. On any given Saturday, half the people in Ward Three are arranging panel discussions for the other half to participate in. They live in modest homes with recently renovated kitchens and Nordic Track machines crammed into the kids' play areas downstairs (for some reason, people in Ward Three are only interested in toning the muscles in the lower halves of their bodies).
 Nonetheless, many people in Ward Three do have certain resentments toward those with means, which those of you in the decamillionaire-to-billionaire wealth brackets should be aware of.
 In the first place, many people in Ward Three suffer from Sublimated Liquidity Rage. As lawyers, TV producers and senior civil servants, they make decent salaries, but 60 percent of their disposable income goes to private school tuition and study abroad trips. They have little left over to spend on themselves, which generates deep and unacknowledged self-pity.
 Second, they suffer from what has been called Status-Income Disequilibrium. At work they are flattered and feared. But they still have to go home and clean out the gutters because they can't afford full-time household help.
 Third, they suffer the status rivalries endemic to the upper-middle class. As law school grads, they resent B-school grads. As Washingtonians, they resent New Yorkers. As policy wonks, they resent people with good bone structure.
 In short, people in Ward Three disdain three things: cleavage, hunting and dumb people who are richer than they are. Rich people have to learn to adapt to the new power structure if they hope to survive.
 First, try to submit to the new sumptuary codes. People in Ward Three have nationalized extravagance and privatized Puritanism. Under their rule, the federal government is permitted to throw hundreds of billions of dollars around on a misguided bank bailout, but if a banker like John Thain spends $1,500 on a wastepaper basket then all hell breaks loose. Dazzling personal consumption is out. Middle-class drabness is in. It's sad, but there's nothing to be done. 
 Second, in conversation, try not to say that times are so hard that you are down to your last $400 million. This will not arouse as much sympathy as you might think. 
 Third, there are times when Masters of the Universe must be Masters of the Grovel. If you are a hedge fund manager and you find yourself in conversation with a person from Ward Three, apologize for ruining the Hamptons, and subsequently, the entire global economy. 
 What you must realize, above all, is the rich no longer control the economy and its mores. Ward Three people do, and their rule has just begun. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BAILOUTS (70%); JOURNALISM (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%); RESORTS (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (56%); TOM DASCHLE (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



109 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TOOL KIT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Lessons Learned From Hard Times Past

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
Invariably, once the recession is over, hundreds of people are going to come forth and offer ''lessons learned from the recent hard times.''
 That's fine. But we all can use that advice now. Here is what some entrepreneurs said they learned during the last economic downturn.
 KEEP PLUGGING Trish Bear, chief executive of I-ology, an Internet strategy firm in Arizona, started her business right before the dot-com bubble burst. So Ms. Bear has seen hard times before. She offers these three pieces of advice: 
 1. Continue marketing. ''Being consistently visible demonstrates to both existing and potential customers that you are stable and in for the long haul.'' 
 2. ''Take advantage of the trickle-down effect in hiring great talent. Unfortunately, there are many people out of work right now. But the larger talent pool means opportunities for small businesses that do have the means to bring on new employees.''
 3. Give back to the community. It is ''a great way to keep employee morale strong during hard times, stay busy when business is slow, and get your name out by donating time. Aside from all that, it's the right thing to do.''
 HELP OTHERS Giving back can extend to other people and business as well, says Steve Woodruff, writing on SmallBusinessBranding.com.
 ''Give of what you have -- your time, your knowledge, your connections, Mr. Woodruff writes. ''When you help others with their needs, they will go to extraordinary lengths to help you.'' 
 He says that he has been able to help people make connections with others, including potential employers, and find needed resources with no financial return expected. But, he adds: ''I fully expect that this commitment to help my clients and partners and other colleagues will not be in vain. For some of my partners, I've 'given away' my business and marketing expertise to help them refine their approach and I know that, in return, there is tremendous loyalty built up over time.''
 KEEP LEARNING Executives at Gaebler Ventures, a business incubator and holding company, say they have found that ''seasoned entrepreneurs'' offer this advice to new small-business owners: ''Never fall into the trap of thinking that you know everything. The moment you stop learning about new things is the moment you start losing ground to the competition.'' 
 UNDERSTAND HOW IT WORKS ''All business relationships have a natural evolution,'' Carol Ross, who owns a coaching and consulting firm, writes on HR.com. 
 ''Don't fight it,'' Ms. Ross says. ''Some relationships never get off the ground, some gain momentum quickly and just as quickly run their course, some develop slowly and burst into action when the time is right. Others feel comfortable from the start and then, like the winter jacket in springtime, become unnecessary and constraining.'' 
 In addition, she counsels, ''Be clear on what each business relationship brings.'' She writes that she has relationships that exist for the sake of referrals. ''Other relationships,'' she says, ''are about creating and creating wealth together.''
 LAST CALL After 20 years of running small businesses, Harvey King can offer advice like this: ''Beef up your line of credit when you don't need to. For some reason, a bank's desire to lend you money has a negative correlation to your need for it.''
 But it was his nontraditional advice on NFIB.com, which describes itself as ''the voice of small business,'' that we found most appealing.
 Here are a few examples:
 ''Ben & Jerry's Half Baked ice cream is the best flavor to eat while wallowing in self-pity after a business setback.''
 ''You'll never feel more like a small-business owner than the way you feel the first time papers arrive letting you know you've been sued.''
 ''The greatest marketing tool is a handwritten note. Unfortunately, I don't write such notes, but I make a practice of purchasing stuff from those who do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); SALES PROSPECTING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WORKPLACE MORALE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



110 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: In Bolivia, Untapped Bounty Meets Nationalism

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: UYUNI, Bolivia 

 BODY:
In the rush to build the next generation of hybrid or electric cars, a sobering fact confronts both automakers and governments seeking to lower their reliance on foreign oil: almost half of the world's lithium, the mineral needed to power the vehicles, is found here in Bolivia -- a country that may not be willing to surrender it so easily. 
 Japanese and European companies are busily trying to strike deals to tap the resource, but a nationalist sentiment about the lithium is building quickly in the government of President Evo Morales, an ardent critic of the United States who has already nationalized Bolivia's oil and natural gas industries. 
 For now, the government talks of closely controlling the lithium and keeping foreigners at bay. Adding to the pressure, indigenous groups here in the remote salt desert where the mineral lies are pushing for a share in the eventual bounty. 
 ''We know that Bolivia can become the Saudi Arabia of lithium,'' said Francisco Quisbert, 64, the leader of Frutcas, a group of salt gatherers and quinoa farmers on the edge of Salar de Uyuni, the world's largest salt flat. ''We are poor, but we are not stupid peasants. The lithium may be Bolivia's, but it is also our property.'' 
 The new Constitution that Mr. Morales managed to get handily passed by voters last month bolstered such claims. One provision could give Indians control over the natural resources in their territory, strengthening their ability to win concessions from the authorities and private companies, or even block mining projects. 
 None of this is dampening efforts by foreigners, including the Japanese conglomerates Mitsubishi and Sumitomo and a group led by a French industrialist, Vincent Bollore. In recent months all three have sent representatives to La Paz, the capital, to meet with Mr. Morales's government about gaining access to the lithium, a critical component for the batteries that power cars and other electronics. 
 ''There are salt lakes in Chile and Argentina, and a promising lithium deposit in Tibet, but the prize is clearly in Bolivia,'' Oji Baba, an executive in Mitsubishi's Base Metals Unit, said in La Paz. ''If we want to be a force in the next wave of automobiles and the batteries that power them, then we must be here.'' 
 Mitsubishi is not alone in planning to produce cars using lithium-ion batteries. Ailing automakers in the United States are pinning their hopes on lithium. One of them is General Motors, which next year plans to roll out its Volt, a car using a lithium-ion battery along with a gas engine. Nissan, Ford and BMW, among other carmakers, have similar projects. 
 Demand for lithium, long used in small amounts in mood-stabilizing drugs and thermonuclear weapons, has climbed as makers of batteries for BlackBerrys and other electronic devices use the mineral. But the automotive industry holds the biggest untapped potential for lithium, analysts say. Since it weighs less than nickel, which is also used in batteries, it would allow electric cars to store more energy and be driven longer distances. 
 With governments, including the Obama administration, seeking to increase fuel efficiency and reduce their dependence on imported oil, private companies are focusing their attention on this desolate corner of the Andes, where Quechua-speaking Indians subsist on the remains of an ancient inland sea by bartering the salt they carry out on llama caravans. 
 The United States Geological Survey says 5.4 million tons of lithium could potentially be extracted in Bolivia, compared with 3 million in Chile, 1.1 million in China and just 410,000 in the United States. Independent geologists estimate that Bolivia might have even more lithium at Uyuni and its other salt deserts, though high altitudes and the quality of the reserves could make access to the mineral difficult. 
 While estimates vary widely, some geologists say electric-car manufacturers could draw on Bolivia's lithium reserves for decades to come.
 But amid such potential, foreigners seeking to tap Bolivia's lithium reserves must navigate the policies of Mr. Morales, 49, who has clashed repeatedly with American, European and even South American investors.
 Mr. Morales shocked neighboring Brazil, with whom he is on friendly terms, by nationalizing that country's natural gas projects here in 2006 and seeking a sharp rise in prices. He carried out his latest nationalization before the vote on the Constitution, sending soldiers to occupy the operations of the British oil giant BP. 
 At the La Paz headquarters of Comibol, the state agency that oversees mining projects, Mr. Morales's vision of combining socialism with advocacy for Bolivia's Indians is prominently on display. Copies of Cambio, a new state-controlled daily newspaper, are available in the lobby, while posters of Che Guevara, the leftist icon killed in Bolivia in 1967, appear at the entrance to Comibol's offices. 
 ''The previous imperialist model of exploitation of our natural resources will never be repeated in Bolivia,'' said Saul Villegas, head of a division in Comibol that oversees lithium extraction. ''Maybe there could be the possibility of foreigners accepted as minority partners, or better yet, as our clients.'' 
 To that end, Comibol is investing about $6 million in a small plant near the village of Rio Grande on the edge of Salar de Uyuni, where it hopes to begin Bolivia's first industrial-scale effort to mine lithium from the white, moonlike landscape and process it into carbonate for batteries. 
 Technicians first need to get a brine, or water saturated with salt that is found deep beneath the salt desert, to the surface, where it is evaporated in pools to expose the lithium. Mr. Morales wants the plant finished by the end of this year. 
 Workers here were in a frenzy to meet that goal during late January, laboring under the sun around half-finished walls of brick. Over a meal of llama stew and a Pepsi, Marcelo Castro, 48, the manager overseeing the project, explained that along with processing lithium, the plant had another objective. 
 ''Of course, lithium is the mineral that will lead us to the post-petroleum era,'' Mr. Castro said. ''But in order to go down that road, we must raise the revolutionary consciousness of our people, starting on the floor of this very factory.'' 
 Beyond the tiny plant, lithium analysts say Bolivia, one of Latin America's least developed nations, needs to be investing much more to start producing carbonate. But with economic growth slowing and a decline in oil prices limiting the reach of its top patron, Venezuela, it remains unclear how Bolivia can achieve this on its own. 
 Still, even though Mr. Morales is asserting greater control of the economy and taking over oil and gas projects, optimistic industry analysts point out that he allowed some foreign companies to remain in the country as minority partners. 
 Mining lithium in Bolivia has its own history of fits and starts. In the early 1990s, nationalist opposition reportedly led by Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, a wealthy holder of mining concessions who later became Bolivia's president, thwarted a plan by Lithco, an American company, to tap the lithium deposits here. 
 That history, coupled with Mr. Morales's current tensions with Washington, might help explain why American companies appear to be on the sidelines as others seek lithium deals here. Mr. Sanchez de Lozada was ultimately forced to resign as president in 2003 after Mr. Morales led protests against his efforts to export natural gas with the help of foreign capital. 
 As Bolivia ponders how to tap its lithium, nations with smaller reserves are stepping up. China has emerged as a top lithium producer, tapping reserves found in a Tibetan salt flat.
 But geologists and economists are fiercely debating whether the lithium reserves outside of Bolivia are enough to meet the climbing global demand. Keith Evans, a California-based geologist, argues that accessible lithium resources outside Bolivia are significantly larger than estimated by the United States Geological Survey.
 Juan Carlos Zuleta, an economist in La Paz, said: ''We have the most magnificent lithium reserves on the planet, but if we don't step into the race now, we will lose this chance. The market will find other solutions for the world's battery needs.'' 
 On the flat salt desert of Uyuni, such debate seems remote to those still laboring as their ancestors did, scraping salt off the ground into the cone-shaped piles that line the horizon like some geometric mirage. The lithium found under the surface of this desert seems even more remote for these 21st-century salt gatherers. 
 ''I've heard of the lithium, but I only hope it creates work for us,'' said Pedro Camata, 19, his face shielded from the unforgiving sun by a ski mask and cheap sunglasses covering his eyes. ''Without work out here, one is dead.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Salt piles dot the ancient seabeds of Uyuni, Bolivia. Beneath the surface is the lithium being sought by the world's automakers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Francisco Quisbert, a leader of salt gatherers and farmers, in the western Bolivian salt flats. ''The lithium may be Bolivia's,'' he said, ''but it is also our property.''
 Families in Uyuni, Bolivia, and other parts of the country have long made their living from scraping the salt off the land.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) MAP: Almost half of the world's lithium is found in Bolivia. Map details Uyuni, Bolivia.(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MISC CHEMICAL & FERTILIZER MINERAL MINING (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); BATTERY MFG (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MINES & MINING (50%); LAKES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: VINCENT BOLLORE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); CHINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



111 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Mattel Is Reduced by Half

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The toy maker Mattel said Monday that its fourth-quarter profit fell 46 percent, much worse than analysts had expected, as consumers cut spending even on toys during the weakest holiday season in decades. 
 Sales of Barbie fell 21 percent, and Hot Wheels sales declined 22 percent.
 ''Toy retailers weren't immune to the economic downturn, with significant toy sellers in the U.S., U.K., Mexico and other major markets either closing their doors or entering bankruptcy,'' the chief executive, Robert A. Eckert, said in a conference call with investors. ''Against that backdrop, we underperformed for the quarter and ultimately the year due to a combination of lackluster sales, lower gross margin and higher expenses.''
 Mattel said quarterly profit fell to $176.4 million, or 49 cents a share, from $328.5 million, or 89 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Revenue fell 11 percent, to $1.94 billion from $2.19 billion. Sales were down 6 percent in the United States and 20 percent internationally. The impact from currency exchange rates lowered sales by 5 percentage points. 
 Shares of Mattel, which is based in El Segundo, Calif., fell $2.29, or 16 percent, to $11.90 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%); EXECUTIVES (55%); EXCHANGE RATES (51%); CURRENCIES (51%)

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (95%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%)

PERSON: ROBERT A ECKERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



112 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Week May Find Home at Lincoln Center

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
After holding runway shows under a big tent in Bryant Park for 15 years, organizers of New York's Fashion Week are expected to announce on Tuesday that they will move the event to Lincoln Center, beginning in 2010. 
 The twice-annual event, which is estimated to draw more than 100,000 visiting store buyers and fashion editors, has been under increasing pressure to find a new home after complaints from the park management that the invitation-only shows had grown too large and were restricting public access to the park.
 Two designers who typically show in the park said they had been told that the new location would be Lincoln Center, but Zach Eichman, a spokesman for IMG, which produces the shows, declined to comment.
 Although the fashion shows, now operating as Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week to reflect a corporate sponsorship, were welcomed in Bryant Park in 1993, there were frequent clashes with the management company that controls its maintenance and security. 
 The dispute intensified in 2006, when the Bryant Park Corporation announced it would no longer allow the shows to be held in the park, because they were interfering with plans to operate a skating rink in the winter and public use of the main lawn in the late summer. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was then asked by designers, as well as Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, to intercede on their behalf, leading to an arrangement for Fashion Week to remain there, at least temporarily. 
 About 63 designers are expected to present their fall 2009 collections in the park starting on Feb. 13, although hundreds of other shows are scheduled at galleries and event spaces around Manhattan. The event generates $466 million in visitor spending each year, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
 Finding a new home has not been easy for the designers, many of whom have businesses nearby on Seventh Avenue. Fern Mallis, the senior vice president of IMG Fashion, has looked at locations including a space on top of the Port Authority Bus Terminal. A one-season attempt to have the shows at the Chelsea Piers in 1997 was a logistical disaster, as many guests found themselves struggling to get there, or get out. 
 It is not clear whether IMG hopes to recreate the tents on the plaza at Lincoln Center or use nearby buildings for additional space, but a feasibility study done in 2006 suggested staging tents on opposite sides of the New York State Theater with a corridor winding around the theater, meaning guests might have to walk the equivalent of a city block between each show. One person close to the negotiations, which were orchestrated through the mayor's office, said the shows were likely to take place in Damrosch Park.
 Daniel A. Biederman, the president of the Bryant Park Corporation, criticized the event in 2006 for causing continuing disruptions, but ultimately relented. Phone calls to Mr. Biederman were not immediately returned on Monday. IMG pays $1 million to $1.5 million to use the space each season, according to an IMG executive who spoke on condition of anonymity because the company does not typically release any figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION SHOWS (91%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); MAYORS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%)

COMPANY: PARK CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



113 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Banks Continue to Restrict Lending

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Many banks have made it harder for borrowers to obtain loans in the last three months despite a $700 billion federal bailout program and a flurry of other bold moves to stem the worst financial crisis to hit the country since the 1930s. 
 The Federal Reserve, in its quarterly survey of bank lending practices released Monday, found large numbers of banks reporting tighter credit standards across a broad range of loan products.
 Nearly 60 percent of banks responding to the survey said they had tightened lending standards on credit card and other consumer loans, about the same share as in the previous survey released in early November. And about 80 percent of domestic banks said they tightened lending standards on commercial real estate loans, slightly less than the roughly 85 percent that reported doing so in the previous survey.
 All told, though, the proportion of banks that ''reported having tightened their lending policies on all major loan categories over the previous three months stayed very elevated,'' the Fed concluded.
 The survey was based on the responses of 51 domestic banks and 23 American offices of foreign banks.
 The government has taken a series of unprecedented actions to break through a debilitating credit clog and spur banks to lend more freely again.
 Under the $700 billion bailout program, enacted in early October, the government had pledged to inject $250 billion into banks in return for partial ownership. The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, is exploring other ways to provide relief, including the possibility of buying bad mortgages and other devalued assets now weighing down banks' balance sheets.
 The Federal Reserve has slashed a key interest rate to record lows and introduced radical programs to, among other things, provide cash loans to banks, buy mounds of short-term debt from companies and purchase up to $500 billion in mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.
 In its survey, the Fed said roughly 45 percent of banks raised the minimum-required credit scores on credit card accounts and other consumer loans.
 The survey also found that domestic banks had reduced the size of existing credit lines for all major types of business and consumer customers.
 For business customers, roughly 60 percent of banks reported a decrease in the limits on commercial construction lines of credit, and about 50 percent indicated a decrease in the limits extended to financial firms.
 For consumers, about 40 percent of banks reduced the size of existing home equity lines of credit, and roughly 35 percent trimmed credit card account limits.
 The survey also showed that many banks continued to tighten lending standards on prime mortgages as well as nontraditional mortgages, such as adjustable-rate loans with multiple payment options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



114 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Victory, Iran's Loss

BYLINE: By JOHN R. BOLTON. 
John R. Bolton, the United States ambassador to the United Nations from 2005 to 2006, is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and the author of ''Surrender Is Not an Option.''

 BODY:
IRAQ'S peaceful elections and strong voter turnout last weekend were a major success for both that country and the United States -- not that there was much celebration in American news coverage. 
 The elections could also redefine Iran's role in the region. Critics of the Iraq war claimed that overthrowing Saddam Hussein in 2003 strengthened Iran's position. Had we left Mr. Hussein in power, the theory goes, Iran would be less of a global threat. This argument is fundamentally wrong.
 Long before the American ouster of Mr. Hussein, Iran was supporting terrorist groups like Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza and the West Bank. It was seeking hegemony in Syria and Lebanon, and was well along in its clandestine program to acquire nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles. After Mr. Hussein's conviction and execution, Iran increased efforts to advance its radical brand of Shiite Islam in Iraq. But the success of the election should substantially retard those efforts. 
 Mr. Hussein defended his repressive regime -- and his pursuit of weapons of mass destruction -- in the name of protecting Arab nations from Iran. Western critics of Mr. Hussein's removal are basically parroting the arguments of a tyrant. Surely some other Iraqi government could have advanced the Arab cause without invading Kuwait, or using chemical weapons against its own citizens. 
 Iraq's provincial elections actually weaken Tehran's hand. 
 First, they were not entirely dominated by Shiite voters. After mostly boycotting the 2005 Iraq elections, Sunnis participated on Saturday in large numbers. Many of them seem to recognize that their abstention had been a mistake. If they follow through in the general elections that should be held later this year, the composition of Iraq's Parliament will change substantially. 
 Moreover, it's unfair to assume that Tehran calls the shots among Iraqi Shiites. This gives too much credit to Iranian propaganda, and too little to the good sense of the Shiites themselves. Now they must decide whether taking orders from mullahs in Tehran is really more attractive than electing their own representatives in Baghdad.
 Despite these successful elections, the sectarian and communal violence will not necessarily end, and we may even see the ultimate fragmentation of Iraq. Nor will the elections put an end to Iran's ambitions. Tehran appears to believe that its influence in the region is expanding, and that its neighbors and the United States have failed to respond effectively. This belief is unsurprising, given the Obama administration's acquiescent attitude toward Tehran. 
 Still, the elections could make a deep impression on the citizens of Iran and its vassal, Syria. Young, educated, sophisticated Iranians, dissatisfied with their country's religious orthodoxy and economic failures since the 1979 revolution, will draw their own conclusions from Iraq's peaceful democratic process. 
 Uncomfortable though it may be for some on the American left to admit, the ''surge'' continues to work, politically and militarily. The moment has come for the Obama administration to acknowledge what those fingers dipped in purple ink truly represent -- a triumph for democracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); HAMAS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); HEZBOLLAH (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); BOYCOTTS (64%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%); HAMAS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN (94%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



115 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: What If Watchdogs Got Bonuses?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
 Maybe someone deserves a bonus. 
 Like someone who sniffs out the next Bernie Madoff. Or jousts with tomorrow's gonzo bankers. Or defuses the Next Big Crisis in whatever Next Big Thing is dreamed up by Wall Street. 
 Someone, in short, who regulates. 
 It is clear that the nation's financial regulators were no match for Wall Street last time. The financiers were always one step ahead. But maybe that isn't surprising. The financiers, after all, have a big incentive to outsmart the financial police. It is called a bonus. Wall Street lures a lot of bright minds with money. How can federal agencies compete? They can't. 
 The numbers are sobering. Mary L. Schapiro, the new head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, will make about $162,000 a year. Timothy F. Geithner, the new Treasury secretary, will pull down about $191,300. 
 Both of them will make less than many 20-somethings made on Wall Street during the boom. And keep in mind that people who work for Ms. Schapiro and Mr. Geithner, and their counterparts at other regulators, make less than their bosses. 
 Wall Street executives champion the idea of incentives to defend their industry's bonus culture. Those carrots, the bankers argue, make the markets work (at least when incentives are properly aligned). 
 So maybe regulators should embrace the bonus culture too -- for themselves. As crazy as that might sound, the idea came up here last week at the annual corporate schmooze-fest in Davos. 
 Tony Tan Keng Yam, deputy chairman and executive director of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, suggested that one reason American regulators fell down on the job was that they were paid too little.
 ''You must have as good people working in the government in the regulatory authorities as those that are working in the private sector,'' Mr. Tan said. ''You do need, particularly in these very difficult times, capable people in central banks, in government, in the Treasury who can effectively supervise.''
 Mr. Tan knows about this firsthand. He is a former regulator himself, and Singapore has a different view about compensation.
 ''We pay our politicians and our government servants very well,'' he said. ''We lock remuneration to the market.'' 
 While Singapore's watchdogs aren't paid enough to afford private planes, some in top positions make seven-figure salaries. 
 Granted, not everyone is motivated by money alone. People become teachers, doctors, engineers and, yes, financial regulators for all sorts of reasons.
 In the United States, many senior bankers move seamlessly between Wall Street and Washington. But in recent years, with Wall Street so flush, many young people didn't give much thought to working for the government. The potential rewards on Wall Street were too good to pass up. 
 Paying regulators a lot of money may not go down well with taxpayers, particularly given the outcry over bonuses on Wall Street. But while bankers are taking the brunt of the heat for the financial crisis, regulators may soon be taking blame, too.
 ''God knows, some really stupid things were done by American banks,'' Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said. ''To policy makers, I say where were they? They approved all these banks.'' His comment may seem self-serving, but many regulators privately acknowledged that they didn't see the economic crisis coming.
 Other Wall Street denizens said the problem wasn't regulators, but the misalignment of interests in their industry. ''The government has gotten some very good people,'' said Henry Kravis, the private equity king, ''to work and do a very good job.''
 Perhaps the most controversial idea over how to fix the regulatory system was suggested over a private Shabbat dinner hosted by the Israeli president, Shimon Peres, on Friday: why not pay bonuses to regulators for ferreting out frauds like Mr. Madoff's? The bonuses could be paid with the bounty of fines. 
 Some at Davos thought the bonus idea could work. But anxiety over that approach was palpable. ''They already treat us like criminals,'' one hedge fund manager said.
 A few said giving bonuses to regulators would be like giving bonuses to the police for issuing speeding tickets. Maybe the regulators, like Wall Streeters, would start thinking about the money, rather than what is right. But maybe that's exactly what Wall Street needs to slow down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Tan Keng Yam suggested higher pay for regulators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN MOSER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SINGAPORE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



116 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Political Lessons Taken on the Fly By Gillibrand

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
That smile never disappears.
 A Long Island congresswoman is so angry about the new senator's views on gun rights that she threatens a primary challenge next year? Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand murmurs that she really looks forward to working with her.
 A Latina New York City councilwoman describes the senator's views on immigration as insensitive, not to mention Paleolithic? Ms. Gillibrand gently holds her hand, peers up into her eyes and thanks her so much for sharing.
 And so often now, Ms. Gillibrand stands ready to ''evolve'' -- that decorous political verb of choice -- on policy questions. At present, the senator is evolving at a particularly rapid rate on immigration, an issue on which she had favored tough enforcement. She now inclines to the view that ''cowboy'' tactics in immigration raids are uncivilized.
 ''These stories are terrible,'' she said Monday morning at a meeting in Lower Manhattan with the Hispanic Federation, which represents major social service agencies. ''It's disturbing to who we are as Americans.'' 
 Eyes red-rimmed from lack of sleep, careening from the Port of Buffalo to Downtown Brooklyn to Manhattan fund-raisers for a Senate primary election that is still 20 months away (she attended 19 events in three days in three cities), Ms. Gillibrand has an occasional stranger-in-a-strange-land quality on her maiden voyage as New York's junior senator. Ten days ago, Gov. David A. Paterson tapped this 42-year-old Democratic congresswoman from a largely rural and politically conservative swath of eastern New York to fill the seat of Hillary Rodham Clinton, who stepped down to become secretary of state.
 Her appointment occasioned yawps of disappointment from downstate Democrats, who tend to view Senate seats as proprietary possessions. Charles E. Goodell, who was appointed to fill Robert F. Kennedy's seat in 1968, was the last senator to come from outside New York City or its suburbs. That Ms. Gillibrand was an ardent National Rifle Association supporter and a hard-liner on immigration soothed few hurt feelings. (She is more liberal on economic issues, opposing privatizing Social Security; favors a withdrawal from Iraq; and earns high scores from gay and civil liberties groups.)
 Ms. Gillibrand, a meticulous student of politics, has crafted her own political adult education course. Mrs. Clinton's former staff members, inherited by Ms. Gillibrand, made phone calls and churned out memos at a prodigious rate, and Ms. Gillibrand began dialing up congressional representatives and mayors from Rochester to Yonkers to the Bronx. 
 Representatives Jerrold L. Nadler, Nydia M. Velazquez, Jose E. Serrano and Anthony D. Weiner: some were said to desire appointment to that Senate seat and all heard from her, an aide said. She talks of her progress as an honors student might of acing a forthcoming exam.
 ''I didn't know about milking cows but I quickly informed myself and asked to be on the Agriculture Committee,'' Ms. Gillibrand said in an interview late Sunday. ''The same thing will happen on immigration issues and gun issues. Now that I am a senator for the whole state I will immerse myself in these issues.
 ''A lot of these are not issues I thought a lot about before.''
 At a reception in Washington to celebrate Ms. Gillibrand's swearing-in last week, Senator Charles E. Schumer played the role of her bat mitzvah uncle. Pumping hands and cracking jokes, he introduced the senator to one New York semi-notable after another. ''He's a great, great fund-raiser,'' he said to Ms. Gillibrand of one short fellow. ''You won't have any problems with him.''
 The lessons are quickly absorbed. No one would dispute that Ms. Gillibrand is a political thoroughbred with the blood lines to prove it: Dad, Mom, Grandma -- all were featured players in one of the state's longest-established political machines, also known as the Albany Democratic Party. (Historians say that her grandmother served as a key adviser and confidante of the legendary machine boss and mayor, Erastus Corning 2nd.)
 She relies often on her mother, Polly Noonan Rutnik, a lawyer, for political advice. Her father, Douglas Rutnik, who has remarried, is a conservative Democratic lobbyist whose ties to Republican power brokers tend to be umbilical: he has worked with former Gov. George E. Pataki; Joseph L. Bruno, the recently indicted former State Senate majority leader; and former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who long ago took on Ms. Gillibrand as a summer intern.
 Ask if Ms. Gillibrand takes his advice and her father rolls his eyes. ''I try to say, 'Do this, do that,' '' Mr. Rutnik said at the reception in Washington. ''And she says, 'Oh Daddy, just get out of the way, I'll handle this.' '' 
 Ms. Gillibrand's fund-raising bona fides are unquestioned. She is soft-spoken, friendly and very persistent, and in the last three days, she met with four gilded Democratic givers, including Bal G. Das, a fabled fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton.
 The urgency of her political task is apparent: Ms. Gillibrand has 20 months to convince New York Democrats that she is one of their own and so capable of carrying the party's banner into a special statewide election in 2010 against the Republicans. If she wins, she faces another election in 2012, when Mrs. Clinton's original term officially expires.
 Mrs. Clinton traveled the same campaign route in 2000, but her ''listening tour'' through New York's hinterlands had a stately Queen Mother aspect. Ms. Gillibrand sips tea and steers clear of coffee, but takes her political turns now at a high rate of speed.
 ''I know I don't have much time; that is very clear,'' she said.
 Ms. Gillibrand is a mother of two boys, ages 5 years and 8 months. When inquiring about work, home life and the strains of her new job, a reporter notes that he hopes he would ask the same question of an ambitious male politician with young children.
 She chuckles.
 ''You wouldn't, but that's O.K.,'' she said. ''My women friends ask each other these questions all the time.''
 She drops off and picks up the children each day. ''Mommy may go to work on Saturday but she takes Sunday off with them,'' she said.
 Her husband, Jonathan, is a venture capitalist and, Ms. Gillibrand said, a close adviser, particularly on fiscal matters. He persuaded her, she said, to vote against the $700 billion rescue for Wall Street banks; she was the only New York Democrat in Congress to vote against the bill. She argued, with some prescience, that the bailout failed to address the banks' underlying problem, which was not liquidity but insolvency.
 ''When I was trying to decide how to vote, I asked my husband to read the top 10 economists on this question,'' she said. ''Then we discussed it at great length.''
 Mr. Gillibrand, who remains a British national, tends to bridle at criticism of his wife that Ms. Gillibrand shrugs off. 
 Ms. Gillibrand long ago began work on her masters in the art of politics, and applied those lessons carefully in a Republican-dominated district that starts south of Albany and loops around the capital into the Adirondacks. A Dartmouth graduate and once a lawyer with two prestigious corporate firms, she is fluent in policy and tends to talk very swiftly. But in a state known for political snarlers -- Rudolph W. Giuliani and Eliot Spitzer stand as pre-eminent examples -- she keeps a studiously placid facade. 
 Confronted in Manhattan by a liberal warrior about her Congressional vote to override a gun control law in Washington, she neither backs down nor fully argues the point. Her reading, she suggests, is that the law was unconstitutional, but she will entertain other viewpoints. 
 It was a refrain heard often in the last 10 days. The occasional impression is that the new senator's views are evolving at a speed sufficient to send Charles Darwin spinning back to his notebooks.
 On Sunday, Ms. Gillibrand said she no longer favored branding immigrant-friendly cities such as New York as ''sanctuary cities'' and denying them federal tax benefits. On Monday, she no longer favored deputizing police officers as immigration officers.
 ''It's not so much of changing my view as broadening,'' Ms. Gillibrand said. 
 Perhaps, although James Tedisco, a Republican assemblyman who is running for her old congressional seat, complimented her: ''She's very good at listening and regurgitating it back at you intelligently,'' he said.
 Admiration swells in his voice. ''That's the mark of a good politician and a fine public servant,'' he said.
 On Sunday and Monday, Ms. Gillibrand had emotional meetings with Latino leaders. Several admired her willingness to sit in closed rooms and calmly ask questions and hear out their anger. But her agreeability stirred unease.
 ''Clearly, there was a disconnect in her view of immigration until now,'' said Lillian Rodriguez Lopez, president of the Hispanic Federation. ''We just hope that her views are really changing, and that she puts votes where words are.''
 She shrugs. ''It's an imperfect world, what can I say?''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the political evolution of Kirsten E. Gillibrand, New York's junior United States senator, attributed an erroneous distinction to her. Ms. Gillibrand, a representative until her appointment as senator last month, was not in fact the only New York Democrat in Congress to vote against the $700 billion rescue bill for Wall Street banks last fall. Two others also voted against it -- Representative Maurice Hinchey of Ulster County, and Representative Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand met on Monday with Latino leaders, left, who noted that her stance on immigration issues was rapidly changing. Above, Ms. Gillibrand with Senator Charles E. Schumer, left, shortly after being sworn in last week.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FIREARMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); APPOINTMENTS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); JERROLD NADLER (57%); JOSE E SERRANO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



117 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Washington and Our Economic Fate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Further to Frank Rich's Feb. 1 column, ''Herbert Hoover Lives,'' this is an urgent plea from a registered Republican of more than 50 years to the Republican members of the House and the Senate. 
 The present economic crisis is enormously complex, and any sound attempt to deal with it will therefore itself have to be enormously complex. President Obama's proposals raise all kinds of problems, and as the loyal opposition, it is your duty to analyze, advise, criticize and suggest alternatives, but please don't obstruct. 
 The fact is that the American people have spoken. They decided to put their fate in his hands. Let him govern, even if you think he's making mistakes. Give him his chance. Acknowledge that, contrary to your beliefs, he just might be right. 
 The country needs action, and it needs action quickly, and you will not be serving the public if you force delays or force amendments and compromises that dilute or delay the actions that the president ultimately decides are necessary. 
 Edmund R. Schroeder
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 After eight years of partisan slash-and-burn politics under Republican leadership, after record spending, record expansion of government and record deficits, suddenly the Republicans have gotten religion. Now that they are out of power, they preach bipartisanship, small government and bemoan the terrible burden of having to pay interest on our debt. Do they really expect us to take them seriously?
 Where was all this concern over the last eight years? The Republicans are learning the hardest lesson of politics -- elections have consequences.
 Scott Miller
 St. Louis, Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Disgorge, Wall Street Fat Cats,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, Feb. 1): 
 Ms. Dowd is gauging the anger and disgust of the American people at the spectacle of our government's shoveling money to the greedy Wall Street executives who got us into this mess, while they incomprehensibly act as if it's a personal windfall.
 Meanwhile, millions of American lives are spiraling down into a financial black hole, and even those of us with jobs find our pension funds, I.R.A.'s and life savings in dire jeopardy. 
 Anger and disgust don't begin to describe the mood. During his campaign for president, Barack Obama called for hope. At this point, our hope can only be for his administration to craft a wise course forward through a tortuous future. He needs the support of every American in this, because for better or worse, he's now at the helm of the ship of state during a violent storm. 
 The recent obstructionism of Congressional Republicans only adds to the anger and disgust. Jeff Cox
 Kenwood, Calif., Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman's Feb. 2 column about ''lemon socialism'' (''Bailouts for Bunglers'') is a justified first strike against further taxpayer bank bailouts without taxpayer ownership of the banks being bailed out. But there is a much more delicious irony in it for Wall Street than mere ''lemon socialism.''
 By bailing out the bonus kings yet again, we taxpayers will also inject new money into the political campaign treasuries of those most opposed to Wall Street regulation.
 Using their huge paychecks and bonuses, Wall Streeters have bundled vast amounts of campaign financing to those of both parties who have either opposed or blocked meaningful government regulation of investment banking, buyout firms and hedge funds.
 If President Obama's bailout leaves those same bonus kings in charge, they will use a part of our money to continue financing the obstruction of regulation and reform.
 All of us who believe we voted against unregulated greed as the nation's primary economic policy, look again. It's still there, under a different brand.
 Mathews Hollinshead
 St. Paul, Feb. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I spent the last six years watching my tax dollars poured down the drain in Iraq, and now a new administration plans to pour money into Wall Street, once again with no hope of recompense for the taxpayer.
 Meet the new boss, same as the old boss. Marita Pettit
 Loveland, Ohio, Feb. 2, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Philosophically being what some might call a ''big-government liberal,'' I was shocked to find myself agreeing wholeheartedly with David Brooks's take on the economic stimulus package (''Cleaner and Faster,'' column, Jan. 30). 
 Instead of getting a modern-day Works Progress Administration, we're getting a typical Congressional goulash of waste, pet projects and ineffective tax cuts, all pumped up on budgetary steroids. 
 Instead of having a strong, accountable agency measuring the value of projects and making sure we get the maximum stimulus bang for our deficit buck, we've instead left those calls to the most opaque, unaccountable and irresponsible branch of government. 
 That's not change -- and I'm certainly having a hard time believing in it. 
 David Silverstone
 New York, Jan. 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial about the stimulus package's lack of attention to the concerns of low-income Americans (''Sins of Omission: The Forgotten Poor,'' Feb. 2) was right on target. Though the package does include expansion of food stamps and jobless benefits, social services alone will not meet the needs of the poor. 
 The huge infrastructure spending already included in the package could easily be retargeted to dramatically improve the lives of millions of low-income Americans and their communities. By expanding mass transit and providing operating funds for cash-strapped transit agencies, we can create and save thousands of jobs and connect residents to economic opportunity throughout their region.
 By using tax incentives to lure grocery stores to poor neighborhoods, we can create long-term retail jobs and ensure much-needed access to healthy food. By investing in successful job training programs, we can build a vibrant 21st-century work force. 
 The stimulus package provides a once-in-a-generation chance to make good on America's promise of equal opportunity for all. Smarter social and infrastructure spending is vital to making that promise a reality.
 Angela Glover Blackwell
 Oakland, Calif., Feb. 2, 2009
 The writer is the founder and chief executive of PolicyLink.
 To the Editor:
 A Wall Streeter is quoted in ''It's Theirs and They're Not Apologizing'' (Business Day, Jan. 31): ''Say I'm a banker and I created $30 million. I should get a part of that.''
 The current crisis is bringing into question if this was $30 million of true wealth or $30 million of illusion.
 If it is illusion, millions of people will pay with very real suffering. Perhaps they should get ''a part of that.''
 Tucker Ranson
 New York, Jan. 31, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Few Ways to Recover Bonuses to Bankers'' (news article, Jan. 30):
 How nice to read at the very end of your article that ''some bank employees may have done their jobs well, even though their employers lost billions.'' 
 My daughter is a young equity analyst on Wall Street. She is smart, grounded, ethical and works extremely hard to deliver a high-quality, objective analysis of publicly traded stocks -- the kind of advice that underpins our capital markets. She has nothing to do with subprime mortgages or other ''toxic'' assets. 
 She doesn't have a private plane or a house in the Hamptons. A significant part of her compensation for working as hard as she does comes at year-end in the form of a ''bonus.'' 
 There is nothing ''shameful'' about my daughter's bonus. She earned it. 
 Michael C. Foley
 New York, Jan. 30, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); RELIGION (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: FRANK RICH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



118 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Obama Set To Add Republican To Cabinet

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Abby Goodnough contributed reporting from Boston.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
If a new political breeze is blowing in the capital, perhaps the best evidence can be found in this: A Democratic president selects a Republican senator to serve in the cabinet. The Democratic governor with the power to fill the Senate seat signals that he will leave it in Republican hands, depriving his party of a chance to reach 60 votes, a magic number when it comes to passing legislation.
 President Obama's announcement on Tuesday that Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, is his nominee for commerce secretary offers the latest evidence that Mr. Obama is willing at this early stage to take risks and break at least some of the old rules of politics. 
 The role of commerce secretary has often been one of patronage, a job parceled out to a prominent business executive or a top political booster. Mr. Obama's first choice for the job, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, fit that model. Consideration of Mr. Gregg came about far differently, White House aides say, and turned serious shortly after Mr. Richardson pulled out last month because of an investigation into his handling of state contracts.
 When approached by advisers with the idea of placing Mr. Gregg at the Commerce Department, Mr. Obama said he found him ''an intriguing choice,'' aides say. Other Democrats who were privy to the discussions were excited at the possibility that Mr. Gregg could be succeeded by a Democrat, a notion Mr. Gregg immediately quashed by telling Mr. Obama he would not serve if a Democrat was to fill his seat.
 The Democrats currently have 58 seats in the Senate, and will gain a 59th if the long dispute over the Senate race in Minnesota goes their way. Were Mr. Gregg to then be succeeded by a Democrat, the party would have enough votes to cut off Republican blocking maneuvers and pass legislation much more easily.
 Mr. Gregg repeated Monday that he would not take the cabinet job if doing so would give the Democrats that advantage.
 ''I have made it clear to the Senate leadership on both sides of the aisle and to the governor that I would not leave the Senate if I felt my departure would cause a change in the makeup of the Senate,'' he said. ''The Senate leadership, both Democratic and Republican, and the governor understand this concern, and I appreciate their consideration of this position.''
 Mr. Obama's secret interview with the senator at transition headquarters last month, aides say, was one of the few serious one-on-one conversations between them. In Mr. Obama's brief time on Capitol Hill, they barely knew each other, aside from occasional chats in the Senate gym.
 The idea of offering the job to Mr. Gregg came, at least in part, from the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. (The two senators are close, aides to both men said.) Mr. Reid mentioned the idea to Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, who passed it on to the president-elect.
 During the presidential campaign, Mr. Gregg spoke sharply against Mr. Obama's candidacy. He called the Democratic nominee's spending proposals ''the Obama spend-o-rama.'' Then he attacked the principles of the party at a rally in New Hampshire, saying: ''We don't need any more Democrats as president of the United States. We had enough when we had Bill Clinton.''
 But Mr. Gregg, who has earned high marks for budget expertise and is well regarded by the business community, fit the profile of what the new president was looking for: a respected Republican in his cabinet -- the third Republican there, after Robert M. Gates and Ray LaHood -- to help argue on behalf of the administration's economic stimulus plan and take up politically sensitive discussions about overhauling Medicare and Social Security.
 Even when the possibility of putting a Democrat in Mr. Gregg's Senate seat dimmed, Mr. Obama pressed ahead, telling his advisers that it was more important to build a bipartisan cabinet than increase his Senate majority.
 New Hampshire's governor, John Lynch, a Democrat who enjoys bipartisan support, also proved willing to go along with Mr. Gregg's condition. Mr. Lynch told friends that he thought it would not be fair, or popular among a substantial number of New Hampshire voters, to replace Mr. Gregg with a Democrat. And he thought it would be a plus for the state to have a representative in the cabinet.
 ''I have had conversations with Senator Gregg, the White House and U.S. Senate leadership,'' Mr. Lynch said in a statement on Monday. ''Senator Gregg has said he would not resign his seat in the U.S. Senate if it changed the balance in the Senate. Based on my discussions, it is clear the White House and Senate leadership understand this as well.''
 Mr. Lynch, several New Hampshire political advisers say, is leaning toward appointing Bonnie Newman, who was an aide to Mr. Gregg when he served in the House and who also worked for Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Ms. Newman, a centrist Republican, endorsed Mr. Lynch when he ran for governor in 2004. Setting up a wide-open race for the seat in 2010, she has told friends that she does not intend to run for it then.
 In interviews Monday, several Democrats expressed frustration that the party would miss the chance to replace Mr. Gregg with a Democrat. But James M. Demers, a New Hampshire Democrat who was a leading supporter of Mr. Obama's presidential bid, said selecting Mr. Gregg as commerce secretary would send a signal to Republicans that the president was serious about building a bipartisan team with diverse viewpoints. Mr. Demers said it could also ease suspicion among fiscal conservatives about Mr. Obama's agenda.
 ''Judd Gregg could be an important part of changing how Washington operates, by being part of a bipartisan team that works for solutions to solve problems,'' Mr. Demers said. ''If he accepts the position, he is agreeing with Barack Obama that Washington needs to change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judd Gregg, the choice for commerce secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



119 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. and Developer Agree to Delay $1 Billion Railyard Deal

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Last year, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority struck a deal to sell the development rights for a 26-acre complex of office towers and apartment buildings on the West Side of Manhattan for $1 billion, much needed revenue for new trains, track repairs and the expansion of the public transit system.
 But with a severely ailing economy and a lack of financing for real estate projects, the developer, the Related Companies, have reached an agreement with the transportation authority to delay closing on the project for a year. As a result, Related will not have to make a $43.5 million down payment immediately, although the company will have to pay a nonrefundable $10 million for the delay, according to two executives who have been briefed on the agreement. 
 Related is expected to sign a letter on Tuesday extending its designation as the developer for the site, which sits on both sides of 11th Avenue between 30th and 33rd Streets. The agreement needs the approval of the authority's directors.
 Stephen M. Ross, chairman of the Related Companies, said the new agreement was necessary because of the recession and the frozen state of the credit markets, which has brought construction projects in the city to a halt.
 But, Mr. Ross said in an interview Monday evening, he remained committed to both the project and to New York.
 ''I'm excited about the future of New York,'' Mr. Ross said. ''I believe it'll come back even stronger than before. But right now we're going through a financial crisis.'' 
 Gary Dellaverson, chief financial officer for the authority, confirmed that he had reached ''an understanding'' with Related, but declined to discuss the details until Related signed the agreement and his board approved it on Tuesday.
 Under the new agreement, Related would sign the contracts in a year, instead of now, according to the two executives. The developer would not have to begin making the down payment until then, and it would be staggered over another year. The developer would still pay $1 billion over time, but the money would not get to the authority as quickly.
 The authority selected the Related Companies for the project last May after another bidder, Tishman Speyer Properties, dropped out. Related agreed to pay $1 billion over 99 years for the right to build 5.5 million square feet of commercial space, 5,500 apartments and a park over the West Side railyards.
 But the ambitious project requires Related to spend about $2 billion to erect platforms, columns and foundations over a working railyard before it can build the first tower.
 Mr. Ross, who closed last month on his $1.1 billion purchase of the Miami Dolphins football team, was supposed to sign the contracts for the West Side project by Jan. 31 and make a $43.5 million down payment. He was to close within 120 days on the eastern half of the project and at the end of 2009 on the western half. In recent weeks, the developer asked the authority to delay the closings and payments.
 Related has told city and state officials that it has spent about $30 million on architects, engineers and fees so far. It is seeking to rezone the western portion of the property, a public process costing about $7 million.
 The transportation authority, which is under enormous financial stress, was not eager to forgo the payments. It is considering steep increases in fares and bridge tolls, as well as service cuts, to bridge a $1.2 billion shortfall in its operating budget. And it has pared more than $2 billion from its capital budget. 
 But transportation officials ultimately agreed, saying they would not have been able to replace Related given the current economic climate.
 Goldman Sachs, Related's original partner, declined to comment on whether it was still in the deal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



120 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PLAINS JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Hometown With a Past Wins Welcome Reprieve

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: PLAINS, Ga. 

 BODY:
Reminders of Jimmy Carter abound in this 637-person town, where the local preacher and bicyclist and woodcarver just happens to also have been president of the United States.
 There's the Jimmy Carter Boyhood Farm, the Jimmy Carter National Historical Site and Jimmy Carter Industrial Drive. There's the ''aw shucks'' grin painted on bobble-head dolls, shot glasses and a 13-foot peanut statue. And there's Mr. Carter himself, teaching Sunday school at Maranatha Baptist Church, marching in the Peanut Festival Parade and riding down Main Street in his black Suburban.
 ''Before President Carter, we were total obscurity,'' said the town's mayor, L. E. Godwin III, known as Boze. ''If people came here, they were lost.'' 
 But last month, locals began to worry that out-of-towners might once again feel lost in Plains -- only now, with too much to see and too little direction. That is because Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican, to help close a budget gap and save $186,000, proposed shutting the town's state Visitor Information Center, a tiny museum and rest station that has been tourists' first stop in town since 1977, when Mr. Carter's inauguration made Plains a national Mayberry-esque landmark. 
 Plains loyalists pleaded for a special exception for Mr. Carter's hometown center.
 ''The idea of the state wanting to close a welcome center that is located in the vicinity of our nation's 39th president, and a former governor, Jimmy Carter, is far-fetched,'' wrote Rebecca L. Holland, an editor for The Times-Recorder newspaper in nearby Americus. ''Had it not been for Carter, regardless of how you feel about his reign as president, Georgia wouldn't be on the minds of the multitudes of tourists who venture into our great state.''
 George Hooks, 63, a state senator whose district includes Plains, furthered the argument by unearthing an obscure 1977 Georgia law requiring the state to ''construct, operate and maintain'' a tourist center in the hometown of any Georgian elected president. (Mr. Carter is the only such person.)
 ''You cannot just close it without changing the law,'' Mr. Hooks said. ''Besides, I think it's poor judgment to close a tourist information center at the doorstop of a president of the United States.''
 By Wednesday, the visitor center appeared to have been spared. The Georgia Department of Economic Development said it would find a way to keep the center open, although it might reduce its hours or rely on volunteers to run it.
 ''That's the law,'' said Alison Tyrer, a spokeswoman for the department. ''We're definitely keeping the center open.''
 But Bert Brantley, a spokesman for the governor, said legal experts must still decide whether the 1977 law allowed the state to scale back the center's hours or to reach another compromise with Plains. No matter the findings, he said, Mr. Perdue plans to reduce Georgia's budget for the 2009 fiscal year by more than 10 percent, including cuts of 21.3 percent to tourism.
 ''There are things we can afford in good times but don't provide enough value in tough times,'' Mr. Brantley said. ''We're looking at spending these dollars in the ways that are beneficial to the most people.''
 Penny Smith, the center's manager and one of three employees, received the news on Thursday that the center would probably remain open. ''Oh, this is so wonderful,'' she said. ''This place is such an asset. I could get another job, but I would have hated to see the building just sitting there. What would the tourists do?''
 All along, the center seemed an unlikely battleground. Only 3,100-square feet, with wide porches and rocking chairs, it sits on a 17-acre lot, lined by a wheat field and a fishing lake. It displays photographs and pamphlets on attractions like the Little Grand Canyon and, of course, Mr. Carter's boomeranging life from peanut farmer to president to hometown hero.
 ''Most of our visitors are what we call 'destination visitors,' '' Mr. Smith said. ''They didn't mistakenly get here. They have a reason for coming.''
 Over the past 32 years, she said, visitors to Mr. Carter's hometown have come from 38 countries and all 50 states. But this year, traffic has declined. 
 Because Plains is not along an Interstate, the center has attracted the fewest visitors of any of Georgia's 11 visitor centers. Last year, only 56,000 people stopped there, compared with an average of 1.1 million people at each of the other facilities.
 But Mr. Hooks said the center's location was an asset, not a burden. ''Little things like this do matter, and they matter a lot,'' he said. ''It never cost a lot of money, and this is a struggling part of the state that needs all the help it can get.''
 Besides, Mr. Hooks said, the country has only four living former presidents, ''and one of them lives in my district.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, cardboard cutouts of former President Jimmy Carter, and his wife, Rosalynn, in a shop on Main Street in Plains, Ga.
left, the local visitors' center
 he teaches at Maranatha Baptist Church.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Plains attracts the fewest of Georgia's 11 visitor centers. Map details Plains, GA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (87%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TOURISM (72%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); BUDGETS (67%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (91%); SONNY PERDUE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



121 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Internet Money In Fiscal Plan: Wise or Waste?

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At first glance, perhaps no line item in the nearly $900 billion stimulus program under consideration on Capitol Hill would seem to offer a more perfect way to jump-start the economy than the billions pegged to expand broadband Internet service to rural and underserved areas. 
 Proponents say it will create jobs, build crucial infrastructure and begin to fulfill one of President Obama's major campaign promises: to expand the information superhighway to every corner of the land, giving local businesses an electronic edge and offering residents a dazzling array of services like online health care and virtual college courses. 
 But experts warn that the rural broadband effort could just as easily become a $9 billion cyberbridge to nowhere, representing the worst kind of mistakes that lawmakers could make in rushing to approve one of the largest spending bills in history without considering unintended results.
 ''The first rule of technology investment is you spend time understanding the end user, what they need and the conditions under which they will use the technology,'' said Craig Settles, an industry analyst and consultant who has studied broadband applications in rural and urban areas. ''If you don't do this well, you end up throwing millions or, in this case, potentially billions down a rat hole. You will spend money for things that people don't need or can't use.'' 
 Dozens of programs included in the stimulus measure could entail a similarly complicated cost-benefit analysis. But with Congress and the White House intent on adopting the economic recovery package by the end of next week, taxpayers are unlikely to find out whether these programs are great investments or a total waste -- or something in between -- until long after the money is out the door. 
 The proposals for expanding broadband service offer a particularly useful case study because the potential benefits of wider network access are indisputable. And yet, supporters cannot simply wave away the potential pitfalls, including the fact that it will take at least until 2015 to spend all the money on infrastructure to deliver the service -- vastly limiting the stimulating punch. 
 The Congressional Budget Office said Monday that, over all, the Senate version of the stimulus package would provide a swifter boost to the economy, with a combined $694 billion in spending and tax breaks by October 2010, compared with $526 billion for the bill that the House approved.
 The total cost of the Senate bill is $884 billion over 10 years, $64 billion more than the House plan. The new cost analysis came as the Senate opened debate on the recovery package and Democrats Congressional leaders met with Mr. Obama at the White House to discuss the looming floor fight. 
 Senate Republicans, meanwhile, said they would push hard for changes, like a provision to help all creditworthy homeowners refinance their mortgages at rates of 4.5 percent or lower. 
 Changes to the broadband proposal are also possible. Already there has been sharp criticism of $110 million in tax breaks in the Senate bill that could benefit large Internet service providers. ''I do see a motivation to try to stimulate the economy,'' said Brett Glass, the founder of Lariat.net, an Internet service provider in Laramie, Wyo., who is an advocate for expanded broadband access. ''I think that's a good thing. I also see a motivation to hand out money to certain large corporations that are very good at lobbying.'' 
 Critics like Mr. Glass say the legislation being developed in Congress is flawed in various ways that could mean much of the money is wasted, or potentially not spent at all -- arguably just as bad an outcome given that the most immediate goal of the stimulus measure is to pump new spending into the economy. 
 An ''open access'' requirement in the bill might discourage some companies from applying for grants because any investments in broadband infrastructure could benefit competitors who would gain access to the network down the line. 
 Meeting minimum speed requirements set forth in the House version could force overly costly investments by essentially providing Cadillac service where an economy car would be just as useful. And some worry that government may pay for technology that will be obsolete even before the work is completed.
 ''Really the devil is in the details,'' Mr. Glass said. ''Yes, there is $9 billion worth of good that we can do, but the bill doesn't target the funds toward those needs.'' 
 Other critics say the effort will provide neither a true nationwide information superhighway, which some advocacy groups say will cost up to $100 billion, nor a good short-term lift to the economy, because there are so many requirements to be met in applying for federal broadband grants.
 The broadband effort also runs another risk inherent to government stimulus spending, by reducing private investment. Experts say tax money should be used only where private firms clearly cannot profit. But even figuring out where service is needed is not easy. There is $350 million in the bill to develop a ''comprehensive nationwide inventory map of existing broadband service.'' 
 Supporters of the measure say the potential benefits of broadband access outweigh any risks. 
 ''Broadband can be the great equalizer between the rural areas and the urban-suburban areas,'' said Representative Mike McIntyre, a North Carolina Democrat who is the chairman of a subcommittee on rural development. 
 Mr. McIntyre said his district, in a rural part of the state, had seen many benefits from broadband -- not just in businesses but also in schools and health care clinics, which can now link via the Internet to top research hospitals more than 100 miles away. But he said several counties still had little broadband coverage. 
 Other supporters said that while the bill could be improved, the core proposal -- grant programs to provide billions for wired and wireless network development -- is solid policy. 
 ''They are targeted at rural underserved areas,'' said Ben Scott, the policy director for Free Press, an advocacy group. ''They are pegged to a speed requirement, a build-out requirement and consumer protections like open-network requirements. These are all ways to make sure that the money is used properly and is not just a handout that props up the stock price of an ailing telco.'' 
 Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, has said he will press to remove provisions that do not provide a relatively quick jolt to the economy. Mr. Nelson said that money should be available for broadband projects ready to roll. 
 ''We can't sit around waiting for the perfect in technology when we have the good before us,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CASE STUDIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



122 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Qaddafi, as New African Union Head, Will Seek Single State

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal 

 BODY:
President Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya was named chairman of the African Union on Monday, wresting control of a body he helped found and has long wanted to remake in his pan-African image. 
 His installation as the new head of the 53-member body resembled more of a coronation than a democratic transfer of power. Colonel Qaddafi was dressed in flowing gold robes and surrounded by traditional African leaders who hailed him as the ''king of kings.'' 
 The choice of Colonel Qaddafi was not a surprise -- he was the leading candidate -- but the prospect of his election to lead the African Union caused some unease among some of the group's member nations, who were meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as well as among diplomats and analysts. Colonel Qaddafi, who has ruled Libya with an iron hand for decades, is a stark change from the succession of recent leaders from democratic countries like Tanzania, Ghana and Nigeria. 
 Colonel Qaddafi is an ardent supporter of a long-held dream of transforming Africa, a collection of post-colonial fragments divided by borders that were drawn arbitrarily by Western powers, into a vast, unified state that could play a powerful role in global affairs. He has repeatedly proposed immediate unity and the establishment of a single currency, army and passport for the entire continent. He pledged Monday to bring up the issue for a vote at the African Union's next summit meeting, in July. 
 While a few African leaders share his passion and his timetable for this pan-African vision, most prefer a go-slow approach, given the political realities that have emerged in the half-century since most of Africa became independent. 
 ''In principle, we said the ultimate is the United States of Africa,'' said Tanzania's president, Jakaya Kikwete, the previous African Union chairman, according to the BBC. ''How we proceed to that ultimate -- there are building blocks.'' 
 Colonel Qaddafi's new role comes alongside a changing of the guard in Africa. A set of leaders once hailed as new visionaries or cursed as dictators have left the continent's stage, and a jumbled array of new leaders have emerged. But few match the global or continental influence and heft of those who have departed.
 The cerebral Thabo Mbeki, one of the architects of what was supposed to be a club of democratic, corruption-free African countries, was hounded out of office in South Africa by his own party amid a shower of international criticism of his handling of everything from the AIDS pandemic to the crisis in Zimbabwe. 
 Olusegun Obasanjo, Nigeria's globetrotting military-ruler-turned-democrat and continental power broker, stepped down in 2007 when his two terms were up. His replacement, Umaru Yar'Adua, a sickly and little known former state governor, has struggled to fill Mr. Obasanjo's global statesman-size shoes. 
 In December, Ghana, a bellwether for the state of democracy and economic progress in Africa, held a successful election in which the party of John Kufuor, a darling of foreign donors that keep the country afloat, was defeated by a two-time also-ran from the largest opposition party. 
 And Guinea's longtime strongman, Lansana Conte, the subject of one of Africa's longest deathwatches, died late last year, and a military junta seized power, throwing the country into confusion. 
 Colonel Qaddafi has been trying to remake his image in recent years, cooperating with the United States and Europe on nuclear weapons, terrorism and immigration issues. How he plans to use the post as chairman of the African Union is unclear. 
 ''It remains to be seen if he is capable of being serious about anything,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for International and Strategic Studies, a research institution. But Mr. Qaddafi has been a behind-the-scenes player in many African conflicts and intrigues, and persuading him to use his power and influence for the continent's benefit could help, Mr. Morrison said. 
 ''The Libyans may want to show some utility in their leadership,'' he said. ''They have got cash they can use. They have an intelligence service they can use. They have got oil. This is a continent that is really hurting right now. I wonder to what degree people looked at this and thought it may be goofy, but maybe something good will come out of this.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, right, during a meeting of the African Union on Monday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONY NJUGUNA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (62%); CURRENCIES (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (94%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

PERSON: MUAMMAR GADDAFI (94%); THABO MBEKI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (59%) AFRICA (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



123 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Picks Manager of His Mayoral Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
William C. Thompson Jr., the New York City comptroller and a fixture of the city's Democratic political establishment, has appointed a longtime adviser and confidant, Eduardo Castell, to run his campaign for mayor. 
 Mr. Castell, 44, has worked with Mr. Thompson for more than a decade, running his unlikely bid for comptroller in 2001, a bruising and at times nasty Democratic primary that catapulted Mr. Thompson into citywide elected office. 
 Since then, Mr. Castell has overseen government and community relations for the comptroller's office, which is charged with rooting out wasteful spending by city agencies. Mr. Castell will take a leave of absence from his city job to be campaign manager. 
 In an interview on Monday, he said Mr. Thompson had the financial expertise and compassion to manage a city at the epicenter of a worldwide economic crisis.
 ''You need someone who can lead the city during these tough times, who has the understanding and sensitivity of what folks across the city are going through right now,'' Mr. Castell said. ''I think Bill Thompson is that person.''
 In a jab at the wealth of the mayor, who is running for re-election, Mr. Castell added: ''We are not sure that Michael Bloomberg has shown that sensitivity.''
 Mr. Thompson, a former president of the New York City Board of Education who worked briefly as an investment banker, is seeking to portray Mr. Bloomberg as being out of touch with the city's working and middle-class voters, and has cited the mayor's decision this fall to withhold property tax rebate checks for weeks (he eventually sent them) and raise property taxes.
 Last week, after Mr. Bloomberg proposed a 2009 budget that included raising the city's sales tax, Mr. Thompson accused him of trying to ''balance the budget on the backs of working people.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has defended the actions as prudent and fair, calling the sales tax a last resort.
 The Thompson campaign, which will participate in the city's campaign finance system, has hired Marla Klinger as a fund-raiser, Andrew Grossman as a political consultant and Blue State Digital -- the company used by President Obama -- to oversee its Web site and social networking.
 Mr. Castell, who has deep ties to the city's Latino residents and organized labor, has worked for two New York City representatives.
 In the mid-1990s, he served as district manager and chief of staff for Representative Nydia M. Velazquez. Before that, he was legislative director for Representative Ted Weiss.
 Mr. Thompson is likely to face off against Representative Anthony D. Weiner in this fall's Democratic primary. On the Republican side, his opponent could be the grocery chain owner John A. Catsimatidis. Mr. Bloomberg has not yet decided whether he will run as a Republican, an independent or both.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eduardo Castell said Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. can lead the city in economic crisis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MAYORS (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SALES TAX (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); TAX RELIEF (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



124 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler's New Ally Takes a Pragmatic Approach

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The last two times Chrysler was sold -- to Daimler-Benz in 1998 and to Cerberus Capital Management in 2007 -- its new owners promised nothing less than a remarkable renaissance for the smallest of Detroit's Big Three. 
 But Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of the Fiat Group, the Italian carmaker, has no such grand visions for his company's prospective alliance with Chrysler. His company's plan to take a 35 percent stake in Chrysler is accompanied by a blunt assessment of its prospects. 
 ''I think Chrysler has all the prerequisites to survive,'' Mr. Marchionne said Monday in an interview. ''But the bigger issue is, What does it look like two or three years from now? It's not as if Fiat is going to show up and Cinderella is going to be magically turned into something else.''
 Chrysler has been struggling to avoid bankruptcy since last year, when it joined General Motors and Ford in asking for federal aid to make it through the worst downturn in the United States auto industry in more than 25 years.
 Chrysler has received $4 billion in government loans, and is counting on getting an additional $3 billion by April to stay in business. 
 For Chrysler, its deal with Fiat -- announced last month -- is the linchpin of its turnaround effort.
 In exchange for a 35 percent stake, Fiat will let Chrysler build small cars using a number of its ''platforms'' -- the automobile industry term for the mechanical underpinnings of a vehicle, including engines -- so that Chrysler can broaden its lineup beyond large pickups, S.U.V.'s and minivans. This current mix is one reason Chrysler's sales have fallen so quickly over the last year. 
 The deal will also allow Fiat to re-enter the American market, from which it withdrew in 1984, and to eventually build Fiat and Chrysler models together on assembly lines in the United States and Europe.
 The talks between Chrysler and Fiat started last summer when it completed a deal to buy a Chrysler engine plant in Brazil.
 Mr. Marchionne, Fiat's chief executive since 2004, said he had no designs to become involved with Chrysler on a large scale.
 But after initial discussions with Thomas W. LaSorda, a Chrysler vice chairman, Mr. Marchionne said he started seeing a Chrysler-Fiat alliance as a logical combination for both parties.
 ''We're not doing this because we're good Samaritans,'' Mr. Marchionne said. ''We're willing to take a risk on investing technology and time to help Chrysler come back to life and bring value to Fiat shareholders.''
 After meeting in recent days with Chrysler executives at company headquarters in suburban Detroit, Mr. Marchionne offered a utilitarian appraisal of how the two automakers could help each other.
 ''We have to get back to being metal bashers,'' he said. ''We need to go back to some simple rules of making and selling cars.''
 Mr. Marchionne, 56, has taken just such a basic approach to remaking Fiat from a bloated conglomerate into a leaner, more focused competitor in the European auto market.
 Previously head of the Swiss industrial testing company SGS Group, he was recruited by members of Fiat's founding Agnelli family to shake up the auto company. Mr. Marchionne promptly unwound an unsuccessful alliance with G.M., and divested the company of airline, insurance and banking divisions that he said had distracted Fiat from the car business.
 An outsider in the clubby Italian business establishment, Mr. Marchionne is plain-spoken and informal. Instead of suits, he favors open-collared shirts and cashmere sweaters. He unapologetically conducts interviews while working his way through a pack of Marlboro cigarettes.
 He sees Chrysler's problems -- too much capacity, no access to capital, a need for more fuel-efficient vehicles -- as symptoms of an industrywide illness.
 ''We all have to do the restructuring that is needed, no matter how painful,'' he said. ''We have to be willing to restructure to make sure that we can sell what we build.''
 With the right products, he said Chrysler could make money on its 11 percent share of the United States market, even if industry sales remained depressed.
 Analysts say they think that Fiat's small-car expertise could at least give Chrysler the opportunity to make a transition from its dependence on larger vehicles.
 ''Fiat's inclusion into the future equation allows Chrysler a technology and economies-of-scale lifeline,'' said Michael Robinet, head of global vehicle forecasts for CSM Worldwide. ''But other daunting challenges remain.''
 Fiat itself is profitable, but the company has made no commitment to put cash into Chrysler. Instead, Fiat will offer vehicle platforms that Chrysler can modify with its own designs and interiors to appeal to fuel-conscious American consumers.
 Industry observers who were ready to write Chrysler off as a lost cause see Mr. Marchionne's back-to-basics approach as its only hope.
 ''He appears to have done a remarkable job in getting Fiat's quality and sales back up,'' said Jerome York, a former Chrysler executive who has advised the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian on his investments in the auto industry. 
 But it will take at least two years before Fiat cars can be remade into Chrysler models. Mr. Marchionne sidestepped questions on whether an additional $3 billion in government loans would be enough to keep the company solvent until then.
 He said that it was ''up to Chrysler'' to negotiate lower labor costs with the United Automobile Workers and to shrink its debt to qualify for more loans.
 And Mr. Marchionne is unfazed by some in Congress who question whether American taxpayers should lend more money to Chrysler if it benefits a foreign automaker.
 He said that Fiat could eventually get a majority ownership stake in Chrysler if certain goals were achieved.
 ''We are not asking for anything from Chrysler,'' Mr. Marchionne said. ''We're not going to take any of its money. We're offering platforms, engines and a distribution network outside of North America, in exchange for an equity position. Really, the risk is all on us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergio Marchionne, chief of Fiat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 ''We're not doing this because we're good Samaritans,'' Sergio Marchionne, Fiat's chief, said of the alliance with Chrysler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEER GRIMM/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (76%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (94%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (94%); F (BIT) (94%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



125 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Who's Sticking With Us?

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
PEANUT butter has long been the salvation of the harried parent and the budget-minded.
A spoonful straight from the jar has gotten many a student through a long study session. A peanut butter sandwich is one of the first snacks a young person can make, and it is the rare baker who doesn't have a peanut butter cookie in repertory.
A contamination scare could not have touched a more iconic American flavor. Almost 900 products were recalled after salmonella tied to hundreds of illnesses was traced last month to a Georgia peanut factory.
But while peanut butter's popularity has made this threat especially troubling, it may also help its reputation survive intact. 
More than 80 percent of the nation's households have a jar or two in the pantry, with smooth far and away the preferred texture. Tens of millions of people regularly buy cereal, cookies, ice cream and candy made with it. The business of selling peanut butter in America is worth nearly $900 million a year.
''There are times you just have to have some,'' said Jess Denaro, a New York University student from Brooklyn.
And peanut butter has the recession going for it. When the economy goes south, it's one of the inexpensive but nutritionally rich foods that shoppers buy more of. ''There will be some specific categories that are going to do quite well,'' said Lynn Dornblaser, new-product analyst for Mintel, a consumer research company. ''We firmly believe peanut butter is one of them.''
That's not to say there won't be a short fear-induced drop in sales, she said, although it's too soon for any reliable figures, especially because the company that processed the contaminated peanut butter has expanded its recall to include any foods made with its products since January 2007.
The facts of the outbreak are sobering. Officials have said that more than 500 people have become ill and 8 have died after eating peanut butter and peanut products from a poorly maintained plant in Blakely, Ga., run by the Peanut Corporation of America. The peanut butter was sold to nursing homes, schools and other institutions, and peanut products were used in hundreds of processed foods.
The recall doesn't include branded peanut butters on supermarket shelves but still involves a wider array of products than any other food recall in United States history.
The items range from stuffed celery, frozen pad Thai, vegan cookies and trail mix to nut-topped ice cream novelties and candy. Although some well-known companies like Clif Bar, Kellogg's and Hain Celestial are on the recall list, most of the products are store brands or sold under lesser-known labels. Even dog biscuits are implicated.
The only other time peanut butter was connected to a significant outbreak of food poisoning was in 2007. Salmonella was found in jars of Peter Pan and Great Value, both owned by ConAgra. That outbreak sickened more than 600 people, but no deaths were connected to it. ConAgra's total business suffered a 20 percent drop in the seven months the peanut butter was off the shelves, according to a report from Mintel.
Since 1985, when salmonella in milk from a Chicago-area dairy and listeria in soft cheese from Southern California caused dozens of deaths and tens of thousands of illnesses, America has learned to cope with an apparent increase in food-borne illnesses. Ground beef, fresh juice, chicken, seafood and spinach have all been carriers.
But packaged products on supermarket shelves have rarely been found to harbor deadly pathogens. Critics of the food industry, like the Center for Science in the Public Interest, say this outbreak points up how serious problems with food manufacturing can be.
Others, though, say it may feed an already overblown fear of the food supply.
''As far as I know, eating is now about being scared,'' said Chris Kimball, the publisher and editor of Cook's Illustrated and Cook's Country magazines.
This outbreak might inspire people to make more of their own food, he said, adding that it will take more than an isolated case of food-borne illness, even one this severe, to make the nation turn its back on something as beloved as peanut butter.
Mr. Kimball favors crunchy peanut butter for his full-flavored old-fashioned cookies, and the creamy version in a sandwich he constructs with a slab of bread made with his own hands or from a local bakery in Vermont, where he lives. He starts with a thick cushion of peanut butter, which holds as much local honey as possible.
''You have to eat it quickly,'' he said. ''You don't even have time to sit down.''
The love of peanut butter doesn't seem to have been diminished in Manhattan, either.
Last week, a few days past the date she was to give birth, Ayana Deurieux was eating an ''Elvis'' at Peanut Butter & Co., a restaurant in Greenwich Village. Even pregnant, she had no qualms about the safety of her grilled peanut butter sandwich layered with honey and bananas. ''I think if it wasn't safe they wouldn't be selling it,'' she said. ''Besides, I just really wanted a peanut butter sandwich.''
The nation's relationship with peanut butter began for reasons of both health and economy. In the late 1800s, a St. Louis doctor crushed peanuts into a paste so patients with bad teeth could get some protein, an idea that he later helped turn into a commercial venture.
George Washington Carver, who took his interest in the peanut to Tuskegee University when he became agriculture director there in 1896, created 105 peanut recipes and hundreds of ways to use peanuts to help poor farmers move away from cotton.
Peanut butter started its move to the masses in 1904 when, along with iced tea, cotton candy and the ice cream cone, it became popular at a world's fair in St. Louis, according to several food historians.
Once a method for smoothly churning peanut butter without having the oil separate was patented in the 1920s, brands like Peter Pan began to appear.
Around that time, Reese's peanut butter cups were developed by Harry Burnett Reese, an inventor and onetime shipping foreman for Milton Hershey.
As food processing became more sophisticated and lucrative, peanut butter worked its way into more products. Not only is it more abundant than other nut butters, it's an inexpensive way to boost the protein levels and texture in certain foods, said Marc Halperin, chief operating officer at the Center for Culinary Development in San Francisco, which helps large food companies create new products.
''From a consumer perspective, it's a very understandable flavor profile,'' he said. ''It's not like using cashew butter.''
In Ohio, home to the J. M. Smucker Company and its Jif brand, peanut butter matters. The state's favorite candy is a peanut butter ball dipped in chocolate to resemble the nut from a buckeye, which is the state tree.
Robin Davis, food editor of The Columbus Dispatch, said the salmonella scare hasn't seemed to dampen the state's peanut butter enthusiasm. For example, neither readers nor candy makers have called the newspaper worried that the state's candy might be in trouble.
''The buckeye seems fine,'' she said. ''It would take a lot for people to give up their buckeyes.''
Recipe: Peanut Butter Cookies
Adapted from Chris Kimball
Time: About 35 minutes
2 1/2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup roasted salted peanuts
1/2 pound (2 sticks) salted butter
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup extra-crunchy peanut butter
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract.
1. Adjust oven rack to low center position. Heat oven to 350 degrees. In a medium bowl, sift flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Set aside. Place peanuts in a food processor and pulse until the texture of bread crumbs. Set aside.
2. In bowl of electric mixer or by hand, beat butter until creamy. Add sugars and beat until fluffy, about 3 minutes, scraping sides as necessary. Then beat in crunchy peanut butter until fully incorporated, followed by eggs and vanilla. Gently stir dry ingredients into peanut butter mixture. Fold in ground peanuts just until incorporated.
3. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Drop dough onto sheet in spoonfuls a little bigger than a golf ball, about two inches apart. Dip a fork in cold water and then press the back into dough, repeating to make a crisscross.
4. Bake until cookies are puffed and slightly brown along edges, but not top, 11 to 12 minutes. They will not look completely baked. Cool cookies on cookie sheet until set, about 3 minutes. Transfer to wire rack to cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.
Yield: 4 dozen cookies.
Note: Cookies will keep, refrigerated in an airtight container, up to 7 days.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMERICAN STAPLE: Peanut butter's popularity has made a salmonella outbreak all the more serious.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (D1)
 BIG KID FOOD: Lunching at Peanut Butter & Co. in Greenwich Village.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); FOOD RECALLS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PRODUCT RECALLS (89%); ICE CREAM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); BACTERIA (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (70%); RETAIL SALES (70%); NURSING HOMES (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); PET FOODS (65%); MEAT FREE DIETS (57%)

COMPANY: PEANUT CORP OF AMERICA (85%); KELLOGG CO (56%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



126 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2247 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
WOUNDED FLEE SHELLING
Of Sri Lankan Hospital
Civilians wounded by the fighting between the Sri Lankan military and ethnic Tamil rebels had fled to a hospital in a rebel-held village. But artillery attacks on the hospital left at least 12 people dead by Tuesday, according to the Red Cross, and the wounded have begun to flee. PAGE A5
ROCKET FIRE HITS ISRAELI CITY
Palestinian militants fired a long-range rocket from Gaza into the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon, and Israel retaliated with airstrikes against smuggling tunnels and a Hamas outpost in southern Gaza. In the meantime, Egyptian-brokered talks for a sustainable cease-fire continued in Cairo with no obvious progress. PAGE A6 
MAYOR IN MADAGASCAR IS FIRED
The mayor of Madagascar's capital city was fired by the country's president after he announced last weekend that he was taking over the government. The political violence has left about 100 people dead in recent weeks, and buildings have been burned and gutted. PAGE A8
REFUGEES FROM MYANMAR RESCUED
Two hundred refugees from Myanmar were rescued by the Indonesian Navy after drifting aboard a wooden boat at sea for almost three weeks, and they are being treated in a hospital in Aceh. It was the second boatload of refugees from Myanmar to land in Aceh in the last month. PAGE A8
Memo from Mexico City
Recession Is Opportunity
For a Vocal Populist
Mexico had largely moved on from its contentious 2006 presidential election and the former mayor of Mexico City, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who said it was stolen from him. But the economic downturn has created opportunities for his brand of populism and given him a chance to revive his political career. PAGE A10
MULLING A TOUGH LINE WITH IRAN
President Obama's aides and outside experts who have consulted with the government about Iran say the administration may take a tough line with Tehran in the coming months, even as it signals a willingness to move toward direct talks. PAGE A11
WOMAN HELD FOR ROLE IN BOMBINGS
Samira Ahmed Jassim al-Azzawi, known by the code name ''the mother of believers,'' confessed to recruiting more than 28 women to carry out suicide bombings in Diyala Province and Baghdad. Her confession offers a glimpse into the wave of suicide attacks by women in the past two years that has alarmed Iraqi and American commanders as insurgents have adjusted tactics to avoid detection. PAGE A12
National
ETHICAL DEBATE SWIRLS
Around Octuplets in California
The Suleman children, born nine days ago to Nadya Suleman, are now the longest-surviving octuplets born in the United States. While they rested comfortably in a hospital, a debate about them raged outside: should Ms. Suleman, already a mother of six children under the age of 7, have been given fertility treatments to have eight more? PAGE A14
MYSTERY OF ANCIENT JARS IS SOLVED
A paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences asserts that the unusual cylindrical clay jars found in the ruins at Chaco Canyon, a complex of multistory masonry dwellings in New Mexico, were used by an ancient civilization for drinking liquid chocolate -- offering the first proof of chocolate use in North America north of the Mexican border. PAGE A14
INVESTOR ACCUSED OF THREATS
Richard L. Goyette, an investor who lost more than $60,000 when a bank collapsed, has been charged with mailing dozens of threatening letters containing white powder to financial institutions in October, federal authorities said. PAGE A15
REVELATIONS ROCK CATHOLIC ORDER
The Legionaries of Christ, the influential conservative Roman Catholic religious order, has been reeling from new revelations that its founder, the Rev. Marcial Maciel Degollado, had an affair with a woman and fathered a daughter. Father Maciel, who died a year ago, had been forced to leave public ministry because of charges from more than a dozen men that he sexually abused them when they were students. PAGE A15
WITHDRAWAL LEAVES OBAMA IN BIND
When Tom Daschle withdrew his candidacy for secretary of health and human services, it undercut President Obama's mission to expand health care by depriving him of an unusually well positioned architect for a big legislative campaign -- and left him without a backup plan. PAGE A16
OBAMA'S NEW COMMERCE NOMINEE
President Obama announced Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire as his nominee to head the Commerce Department -- which Mr. Gregg once supported eliminating. If confirmed, he will be at the top of the list of incoming administration officials who have fundamental differences with the president who is enlisting them to advance his agenda. PAGE A16
NEW YORK
LAWSUITS SUGGEST JAIL GUARDS
Routinely Ignored Inmate Beatings
When two guards were accused last month of encouraging inmates in one Rikers Island jail to police themselves, leading to beatings and in one case the killing of an inmate, correction officials called the situation ''an aberration.'' But New York City has been sued in recent years by more than a half-dozen Rikers inmates claiming to have been the victims of beatings by prisoners while guards looked the other way, or worse, ordered the attacks. PAGE A22
THE DAY AFTER THE CHOMP
Is there redemption after public disgrace? Charles G. Hogg, a k a Chuck, the groundhog at the Staten Island Zoo that bit Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's index finger, was trotted out by zookeepers for another photo op. ''He's usually well behaved,'' insisted Doug Schwartz, a zookeeper. PAGE A22
BUSINESS
WHAT SORT OF MESS LURKS
In Your Tax Return?
Two high-level nominees for jobs in the Obama administration took themselves out of the running because of tax problems. So what sort of mess is lurking in your return? Ron Lieber offers advice that might have helped Obama's nominees, and could help you, too. PAGE B1
CELL MARKET FACES SLOWDOWN
Cellphone sales are falling, and wireless carriers are finding it harder to acquire and keep customers. It seems like another tale of ''recession bites industry,'' but there are signs that this downturn is masking something more fundamental, that the cellphone industry's best days are behind it. PAGE B1
WIND AND SOLAR POWER PLUMMET
Wind and solar power seemed likely to accelerate under the green-minded Obama administration. But because of the credit crisis and the broader economic downturn, the opposite is happening. PAGE B1
CAR SALES FALL 37 PERCENT
New vehicle sales in the United States fell 37 percent in January, the industry's worst month since June 1982, and the worst January since 1963. Automakers are bracing for most of 2009 to be just as bad. PAGE B3
Obituaries
JOHN ISAACS, 93
He was a key member of the Harlem Renaissance basketball team, known by fans as the Rens, which showcased some of New York City's greatest black players during the Depression and captured the first world professional championship. Page A21
Sports
COLLEGES LOOKING TO WOO RECRUIT
As Middle Man Facilitates
Bryce Brown is the top high scholl football recruit in the country, but he has yet to declare, and he temporarily left his hometown to avoid the media attention about his decision. Anyone looking to deal with him must go through Brian Butler, a controversial figure who claims to be Brown's trainer and manager, and who occupies a gray area in the N.C.A.A.'s recruiting rules. PAGE B10
TORRE CONTINUES TO FEIGN SURPRISE
Joe Torre offers up some explosive accusations in ''The Yankee Years,'' the new book he co-wrote about his tenure as the team's manager. Harvey Araton writes that he does not begrudge Torre the right to tell his remarkable story, but wishes Torre would stop expressing shock at the response to the book's charges. PAGE B10
JAMES TO THE KNICKS? NOT LIKELY.
When LeBron James comes to the Garden, the stands will be packed with Knicks fans looking to pry him away from the Cleveland Cavaliers when he becomes a free agent in 2010. Their signs and enticements arelikely to fail, as N.B.A. salary guidelines reward superstars for staying put, and punish them for leaving. PAGE B11
Arts
IN MOTHER'S FOOTSTEPS, IN REVERSE
Sissy Spacek left her small Texas town to become a folk musician, but ended up becoming a major Hollywood actress. Her daughter, Schuyler Fisk, took the opposite route: heading to Hollywood to become an actor, and ending up a touring singer-songwriter. PAGE C1
CHASING BAD GUYS
In NBC's detective show ''Life,'' its protagonist is trying to find out who set him up for a crime that sent him to jail for more than a decade. (He, almost necessarily, is a brilliant eccentric, and exasperates his attractive female partner.) But Ginia Bellafante writes that the show's creators have bigger ambitions than the average police procedural. PAGE C1
GREEN OGRE MAY BE SEEING RED
Ticket grosses for ''Shrek the Musical'' have been falling since it opened, and hit a new low last week, which has raised the question of whether big-budget production may be losing money. C2
INTERNAL CRITICISM FOR 'WORLDFOCUS'
WNET's ''Worldfocus'' has won praise for its international news coverage. But some at the station blame the show's $8 million budget for deep layoffs at the public television station. PAGE C3
Music Review: Wonny Song at Frankel Hall C4
GETTING INTO FREUD'S HEAD
Anita Gates writes that the playwright and director of ''Freudian Slips,'' a new comedy about the psychoanalyst, ably pull off the production, which calls for a complex structure and some complicated staging. It is the premise, she says, that is off-base. PAGE C5
DINING
NEVER BEEN WANTED THIS BADLY
And Never Been Treated This Well
Most of the time for diners, going out to eat in New York can be a humbling experience. You are at the mercy of service, and often it can feel as if the restaurants know this. But those still able to dine out, Frank Bruni writes, might find themselves having a very different experience, courtesy of a plunging restaurant business. When was the last time a restaurant hugged you? Page D1
THE (STILL) BELOVED PEANUT
In terms of American tastes, the peanut has to rank up there with hamburgers and milkshakes. It can be found in nearly every variety of food. A recent salmonella scare at a Georgia peanut factory is worrisome, certainly, and mightcool the national ardor for the little legume. But not by much. Page D1
A GAIN FOR 'BIGGEST LOSER'
For the contestants of ''The Biggest Loser,'' the reality show that pits morbidly obese contestants against their appetites, the final battle is to change their relationship with food -- from the kitchen up. Page D1
A Good Appetite
From Briar Patch to Cook Pot
Rabbit is a lean meat. It is often prepared with a large amount of fat, added to counter the dryness. With this recipe for braised rabbit, cooks won't need to resort to that. Page D2
Food Stuff
Cheese Cabbage and Canoodling D3
The Minimalist
Snappy, Richer, Better
Pre-packaged crackers are often overpriced and contain ingredients you probably would not choose to cook with, especially when you consider how easy they are to make, Mark Bittman writes. Page D3
BAROLO: THE THRILL IS BACK
Barolo is not cheap, Eric Asimov writes, but put that aside for just a moment and consider a few things. It is a vintage that appeals to both the head and the heart -- it pleases now but rewards contemplation and patience. Page D4
Restaurants
The New Oak Room
Dinner in the Oak Room at the Plaza Hotel: little inspires such visions of elegance and luxury, writes Frank Bruni. In the restaurant's recently restored confines, it is not so much the eating that is nearly peerless, but the atmosphere and the imagining. Page D6
$25 and Under
India Brings the Truck Stop to You
In India, a dhaba is a roadside joint, home to vibrant meals and cots for a snooze afterward, writes Oliver Schwaner-Albright. In the minds of Americans, truck stops raise a lot of images, but tasty food? Dhaba in Manhattan offers variety, both in menu and its nods to various types of Indian cuisine. Page D6
Editorial
A VITAL BOOST FOR EDUCATION
Congress is doing the right thing by including a $140 billion education package in the stimulus measure, helping the states stave off layoffs, budget cuts and other problems. But this will fail Americans in crucial ways if Congress squanders the opportunity to push the country's schools toward long-overdue reform. Page A30
THE COST OF CREDIBILITY
The new administration is waking up to the need for top officials to live up to the standards set by the president -- like paying their taxes. It should give Americans new hope that President Obama will live up to his campaign vows to reform the ethics of government. Page A30
HOW TO FILL A SENATE SEAT
Most Americans probably gave little thought to how empty Senate seats are filled until this year -- but what a year it's been. It is time to put the power in the hands of the voters. Page A30
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
In recent days, some have questioned whether Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was making a big mistake in appointing so many ''special envoys'' to handle key trouble spots like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The problem isn't that she has too many; it's that she doesn't have enough. Page A31
AFGHAN SUPPLIES RUSSIAN DEMANDS
On Tuesday, the Taliban attacked NATO supply lines into Afghanistan, showing how hard it will be for President Obama to step up the military effort there. But using alternative routes through Russia and countries in its sphere of influence would require bowing to Moscow's interests. In an Op-Ed article, George Friedman, the leader of a global intelligence company, explains how Mr. Obama can solve the problem. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); NAVIES (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HAMAS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); SMUGGLING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (61%); ETHICS (60%); CHILDREN (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (84%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: NADYA SULEMAN (60%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (66%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); INDONESIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MEXICO (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MADAGASCAR (92%); INDIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



127 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Automobile Industry Suffers Worst Month in Nearly 27 Years

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- New-vehicle sales in the United States fell 37 percent in January to one of the lowest levels in half a century, and though automakers said the market was unlikely to get much worse, they were bracing for most of 2009 to be just as bad.
It was the industry's worst month since June 1982, and the worst January since 1963. For the first time, more vehicles were sold in China last month than in the United States, according to figures from General Motors. 
Tight credit markets and the economic recession, now in its 14th month, are still keeping many customers away from dealerships and preventing some potential buyers from getting the vehicles they want.
''There are some faint signals emerging that we may be near the bottom,'' said Emily Kolinski Morris, the Ford Motor Company's senior United States economist. ''These conditions still imply vehicle sales limping along for many months to come.''
Sales fell 55 percent at Chrysler and 49 percent at G.M., providing an ominous backdrop as they rush to finish the revamping plans that are due at the Treasury Department in two weeks. The two companies have borrowed $13.4 billion to help stave off bankruptcy, and must show that they are on a path toward viability to avoid having the loans recalled.
At Ford, which says it does not need government aid, sales dropped 40 percent. Together, the three Detroit automakers sold 279,531 cars and trucks, about the same number that G.M. alone sold in September, according to MotorIntelligence.com, which tracks industry sales.
Foreign automakers also suffered, though less severely. Sales declined 32 percent at Toyota, 30 percent at Nissan and 28 percent at Honda. Hyundai and Subaru reported sales increases, however.
The automakers are pressing for provisions to encourage vehicle purchases in the stimulus bill of nearly $900 billion being debated this week by the Senate. But George Magliano, an analyst with the research firm IHS Global Insight, said the industry should not count on the stimulus package for near-term help.
''It will keep things from getting worse, but it will not cause a major pickup in sales in the second half of the year,'' Mr. Magliano said. ''I don't expect much good coming out of the next three or four months. That's the nature of the beast with the recession. There's not much you can do about it.''
A lack of credit for would-be car buyers continues to depress sales, though sales in January probably would not have been much higher even if financing options were plentiful, Mr. Magliano said.
Still, carmakers are desperate for ways to open up the credit markets, frustrated by losing sales at a time when their financial situation is tenuous.
''Our business is based on credit more than any other industry, and if you can't get credit, you can't sell vehicles,'' said Michael C. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief sales analyst.
''Dealers are telling us there are buyers out there,'' said Steven Landry, Chrysler's vice president for sales. ''They are in the showroom, but it's very, very difficult to get them approved.''
G.M., Ford and Chrysler made drastic cutbacks in what are known as fleet sales: bulk deliveries to car-rental companies and other businesses. G.M. and Chrysler said their fleet sales fell about 80 percent, while Ford's fell 65 percent. The cuts were largely self-imposed, as the companies closed many of their factories in January to thin their inventories.
But sales to individual customers also plummeted, and the companies no longer have any illusions of a quick recovery.
In general, carmakers and analysts expect sales this year of 10 million to 11 million vehicles, down from 13.2 million in 2008. Until last year, automakers had been selling about 17 million vehicles annually for nearly a decade.
''We need to recalibrate based on where the market is and quit dreaming about pent-up demand,'' said James E. Press, a Chrysler vice chairman. ''There's not a lot of reason to think the entire industry's going to have a lot of growth in the years ahead,'' he said.
But Mr. Press insisted that Chrysler was more viable than its sales figures suggested. He said eliminating unprofitable sales to fleet customers is a positive for the company.
''Our break-even point is now low enough that in this 10 million market, we're O.K.,'' he said. ''We can get through it.''
Chrysler says it now makes money on every sale, even in January when it offered discounts of as much as $6,000, on top of ''employee discount'' pricing and in addition to no-interest financing.
Chrysler and G.M. are extending new buyout and early retirement offers this week to their unionized, hourly employees.
Chrysler workers have about three weeks to decide whether they will leave the company with as much as $50,000 in cash and a voucher worth $25,000 toward a new vehicle.
G.M.'s offer, announced Tuesday morning, includes $20,000 and a similar voucher, considerably less than it has previously offered.
G.M. workers have until the end of March to make a decision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
 How the Automakers Fared.(Source: MotorIntelligence.com) Chart details auto sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



128 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants Stop Playing Hard to Get

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
HAS a restaurant hugged you lately?
Has it insisted that you can have it more cheaply than you thought possible and whenever you want, not just at 5:45 p.m., when your desire isn't close to peaking, or at 9:30, when you almost can't be bothered anymore?
Has it dropped its usual guard? Surrendered its typical reserve?
I'm betting that the answer is ''yes'' -- and that if you eat out regularly in New York, you've noticed a different reception, an altered mood: extreme solicitousness tinged with outright desperation. 
Battered hard already by the recession and petrified of what's to come, restaurants are talking sweet and reaching out in ways they didn't six or even three months ago. They're cutting special deals, adding little perks, relaxing demands and making an extra effort to be accessible.
They've seldom wanted you so bad, so they've rarely treated you so good. If you can still afford to dine out, you're likely finding yourself enfolded in what the restaurateur Stephen Hanson-- who recently closed two Manhattan restaurants, including Fiamma -- describes as a big, tight embrace.
Predicting that ''the consumer will just shut down'' and that 2009 would be ''a very, very tough year,'' Mr. Hanson told peers at a conference in Manhattan last month, ''You need to hug the customer.''
Trust me: the hugging had already begun.
I was feeling it regularly in restaurants where I was certain I hadn't been recognized as a critic and where the ''hello'' from the host station sounded more like a ''thank God.'' I was feeling it on the telephone, as reservationists who couldn't accommodate me one night veritably pleaded that I book another, or beseeched me for a callback number just in case a table suddenly opened.
And I wasn't the only one.
Joan Rappoport, a Manhattan event planner who lives in the West Village and eats out regularly, said that she sensed a climatic shift as early as six months ago.
''The attitude that a number of places used to have, they don't have that anymore,'' Ms. Rappoport said, her tone of voice communicating equal measures bewilderment and relief. ''That attitude of 'we're doing you a favor,' that frosty condescending attitude -- I don't find that anymore. And I've experienced that change over and over again.''
Servers, she said, make double- and triple-sure that her table has everything it needs. Managers circle back to the table more often than ever to ask, with new urgency, if everything's O.K.
They have the time. Fewer restaurants are filling up every night and more tables are going empty. According to Technomic, a Chicago-based research and consulting firm, fine-dining revenues could fall by 12 to 15 percent in 2009.
That may not sound cataclysmic, but restaurateurs say that for many restaurants, it is the difference between making and losing money.
''People need to understand how tight the margins are in the restaurant business,'' said Alfred Portale, the chef and one of the owners of Gotham Bar and Grill, which opened 25 years ago.
Mr. Portale said that Gotham's revenues are down by about 15 percent from a year ago, adding, ''This is the toughest January I've ever seen.''
I asked if the restaurant was still eking out a profit. After hesitating for several seconds, he said, in a staggered cluster of short sentences: ''I hope so. Yes. We will. A small one.''
Fabio Trabocchi, the chef at Fiamma, sounded even more dire in a recent telephone conversation, saying that some restaurants with prices as steep and standards as high as Fiamma's and Gotham's were seeing declines of up to 40 percent.
You get an immediate sense of that when hunting for reservations. While getting into a select cadre of perpetually mobbed restaurants can be as hellish and humbling as ever, getting into others isn't nearly as tough as it once was.
''I'm a big fan of Chanterelle,'' said Niko Canner, a management consultant who lives in Chelsea. ''You can go to Chanterelle at the last minute now, in a way that you couldn't nine months ago.''
As Mr. Canner spoke to me on the telephone last Wednesday around noon, he began surfing the Web site of Open Table, an online reservation system, and found that several highly acclaimed, steadfastly popular restaurants -- including Chanterelle -- could take a twosome that very night at the prime time of 7:30.
About two hours after our phone conversation, I tried my own Open Table experiment. I looked in the area round Union Square for a table for four at -- or within a half hour of -- 8 p.m. I had many options, including Gotham, Irving Mill and 15 East.
I looked in TriBeCa. I could dine in a foursome around that time at many of the neighborhood's all-stars, including Chanterelle, the Harrison, Mai House and Matsugen.
Then I called Karen Waltuck, one of the owners of Chanterelle, who said that in the nearly 30 years since she and her husband opened the restaurant, she has never felt so unsettled.
''There's a tenuous quality to everything that doesn't give you a feeling of standing on solid ground,'' she said, referring to herself and other restaurateurs. ''We're all looking around and saying: 'What is going on here? What can we do to make it better for ourselves and for our clients?' We all have to be clever in our ways.''
Chanterelle hasn't instituted bargain menus or price reductions because, Ms. Waltuck said, the restaurant has always operated on a slim profit margin and tried to keep prices in check.
But so many other restaurants have fashioned so many special deals that two of the city's most prominent dining-related Web sites -- Eater and Grub Street, which is owned by New York magazine -- have invented cheeky tags and new features to keep track of them.
Almost daily on Eater, about a half dozen new items pop up under the header ''Dealfeed,'' and the Web site has also unveiled a ''recession specials map.'' The flag that Grub Street uses for its ever-growing tally of price reductions: ''The Recession Is Your Friend.''
At the avant-garde restaurant wd-50, on the Lower East Side, anyone who orders a 12-course $140 tasting menu can get any bottle of wine on the restaurant's excellent list for half price. The promotion, begun in December, was initially supposed to last three months. Now it has no definite end date.
Wine discounts, waived corkage fees or wine lists showcasing less expensive bottles can be found in Midtown at Alto and the Modern, where bottles under $50 appear in the Bar Room as ''wines for our times''; in TriBeCa at Capsouto Freres; and in Greenwich Village at Perry St., owned by Jean-Georges Vongerichten.
Mr. Vongerichten, many of whose restaurants have always offered price reductions at lunch, is being particularly aggressive (by which I mean huggy). In October Perry St. instituted the option of a $35 three-course dinner menu during the slow hours of 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 to 11 p.m. In December, his restaurant Nougatine, a casual adjunct of his Columbus Circle flagship, Jean Georges, instituted its own $35 three-course menu, every night but Saturday from 5:30 to 6:30 and 10 to 11 p.m.
That same month he began to offer a $35 seven-course omakase dinner at Matsugen, of which he is a principal owner. There are no restrictions on the hours when it can be ordered.
Not even the best-known chefs and most acclaimed restaurants are immune from the pressure to give diners more for less, and wild spending for extreme luxury is rapidly falling out of fashion.
At Del Posto in Chelsea, whose owners include Mario Batali, Lidia Bastianich and Joseph Bastianich, the price for the most extravagant, 20-course meal was reduced last month to $175 from $250. The price for a nine-course tasting menu fell to $125 from $175.
Daniel recently began offering, for people with reservations between 5:30 and 6:30 p.m. on Monday through Thursday, an early-bird special: three courses, including wine, for $98 as opposed to the usual $105 without wine. The restaurant Cru's early-bird special, available every day up to 6:30 p.m., is three courses for $49.
Compass, on the Upper West Side, is promoting a ''lobster sample sale,'' until Feb. 15, that includes a whole three-pound grilled lobster for $39 and a lobster salad for $13.
Craft, which in October opened its private room twice a month for 10-course, $150 dinners cooked by Tom Colicchio -- called Tom: Tuesday Dinner -- reached out in the other direction, to bargain hunters, last month. It opened that room once a week for Damon: Frugal Fridays, with a range of dishes cooked by Craft's executive chef, Damon Wise, for $10 apiece.
Dozens of prominent New York restaurants are extending the $24.07 lunch menus and $35 dinner menus of Winter Restaurant Week, well past when they were set to end last weekend. Le Cirque is prolonging them through February, something its owner, Sirio Maccioni, said he had never done.
Lever House has a $35 three-course dinner menu that it has said it will keep through March. Other restaurants have said that similar specials will last until the end of the year. At the rate things are going, Restaurant Week could become Restaurant Millennium.
And all sorts of rules and rigidities could crumble. The 21 Club recently abandoned requirements -- in place for more than 75 years -- that men wear neckties at dinner.
While its manager, Bryan McGuire, said the change wasn't directly linked to the recession, he conceded in an interview with Glenn Collins of The New York Times that it ''could help the restaurant greatly in a time of difficulty.''
So could the restaurant's relatively new offer of free parking at any time of the night for diners, a bit of hugging that pales next to what one Chicago restaurant, Everest, is doing. Customers traveling 15 miles or less to the restaurant can get a luxury car service for $15.
Restaurants in New York and elsewhere are working harder than ever to make sure that no diner who has expressed an interest in them slips away.
David Barber, one of the owners of Blue Hill, in Greenwich Village, and Blue Hill at Stone Barns, in Westchester County, said that reservationists at those restaurants are newly assiduous about taking careful notes on any reservation request that couldn't be met and are getting detailed contact information for whoever made the request. That way, a cancellation can be quickly replaced, and interested customers are more likely to be accommodated.
''There's no assumption anymore that those cancellations are going to refill automatically, like in the days of two years ago,'' Mr. Barber said.
And they're showing their regulars even more love than usual.
Mr. Canner said: ''If I walk into Craftsteak in my neighborhood without a reservation and they see me, the degree of palpable warmth around the 'Oh, Mr. Canner, happy to see you!' -- the body language and the physicality around that -- feels different.''
''Not that they wouldn't be nice anytime,'' he added, ''but there's more emotion around it.''
And at another of his regular haunts, Blue Ribbon Sushi in SoHo, a server brought him a free plate of fluke sashimi he hadn't requested, as a thank-you.
''That's something they generally don't do,'' he said. ''And at that moment, I remember thinking, 'If this restaurant, one of the most financially successful in New York, feels it's so important to have that extra touch, what does it mean about the restaurant economy in New York?' ''
It means tough going -- and alms of a sort for the diners who help restaurants get through it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HUNGRY MEN: From left: Mario Batali of Del Posto, Sirio Maccioni of Le Cirque and Jean-Georges Vongerichten of Perry St., Nougatine and Matsugen really really want you to visit.(PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
COME HITHER: Craft offers special menus by Damon Wise, top left, on Fridays, and by Tom Colicchio, top right, on Tuesdays. Lever House, left, has a $35 three-course dinner menu. Alto, right, is among many restaurants promoting wine discounts. Fabio Trabocchi, below, was the chef at Fiamma, which closed last month.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER DAVIES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



129 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1239 words

PERSON: Millard Fuller 

HEADLINE: Millard Fuller, 74, Who Founded Habitat for Humanity, Is Dead

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Millard Fuller, who at 29 walked away from his life as a successful businessman to devote himself to the poor, eventually starting Habitat for Humanity International, which spread what he called ''the theology of the hammer'' by building more than 300,000 homes worldwide, died Tuesday near Americus, Ga. He was 74.
His brother, Doyle, said Mr. Fuller became ill with a severe headache and chest pains and was taken to a hospital in Americus, his hometown. He died in an ambulance on the way to a larger hospital in Albany, Ga. Doyle Fuller said the cause had not been determined, but may have been an aneurysm.
Propelled by his strong Christian principles, Millard Fuller used Habitat to develop a system of using donated money and material, and voluntary labor, to build homes for low-income families. The homes are sold without profit and buyers pay no interest. Buyers are required to help build their houses, contributing what Mr. Fuller called sweat equity. 
More than a million people live in the homes, which are in more than 100 countries. There are 180 in New York City, including some that former President Jimmy Carter, a longtime Habitat supporter and volunteer, personally helped construct. Mr. Carter said of him on Tuesday that ''he was an inspiration to me, other members of our family, and an untold number of volunteers who worked side by side under his leadership.''
Former President Bill Clinton has also volunteered on Habitat projects. When he presented Mr. Fuller the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1996, he said, ''I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that Millard Fuller has literally revolutionized the concept of philanthropy.''
Mr. Fuller said his inspiration came from the Bible, starting with the injunction in Exodus 22:25 against charging interest to the poor. He spoke of the ''economics of Jesus'' and insisted that providing shelter to all was ''a matter of conscience.'' Christianity Today in 1999 called him ''God's contractor.''
His skills included fund-raising finesse, an exuberant speaking style and a talent for making use of the news media. In 1986, The Chicago Tribune quoted him asking a publicity man about a woman in front of her ramshackle apartment, ''Don't you think that'd make some great pictures to show her in that rat-infested place?''
The article later said Mr. Fuller did not expect to house the world. ''Instead,'' it said, ''he sees Habitat as a hammer that can drive the image of a woman in a rat-infested apartment as deep into the mind of America as the image of an African child with a distended stomach.''
Mr. Fuller liked to tell and re-tell the stories of his earliest houses. One man had moved from a leaky shack into a new house.
''When it rains, I love to sit by the window and see it raining outside,'' one new homeowner said, ''and it ain't raining on me!''
Another new resident saw his new home as a literal resurrection. ''Being in this house is like we were dead and buried, and got dug up!'' she said.
In 2005, a woman employed by Habitat accused Mr. Fuller of verbally and physically harassing her, a widely publicized charge that an investigation by the organization did not prove. But he and a new generation of Habitat board members were disagreeing on organizational and other issues, and he and his wife agreed to resign.
Mr. Fuller started a new organization called the Fuller Center for Housing. It is active in 24 states and 14 foreign countries.
Millard Dean Fuller was born on Jan. 3, 1935, in Lanett, Ala., then a small cotton-mill town. His mother died when he was 3, and his father remarried. Millard's business career began at 6 when his father gave him a pig. He fattened it up and sold it for $11. Soon he was buying and selling more pigs, then rabbits and chickens as well. He dabbled in selling worms and minnows to fishermen.
When he was 10, his father acquired 400 acres of farmland, and Mr. Fuller sold his small animals to raise cattle. He remembered helping his father repair a tiny, ramshackle shack that an elderly couple had inhabited on the property. He was thrilled to see their joy when the work was complete.
Mr. Fuller went to Auburn University, running unsuccessfully for student body president, and in 1956 was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. He graduated from Auburn with a degree in economics in 1957 and entered the University of Alabama School of Law.
He and Morris S. Dees Jr., another law student, decided to go into business together while in the law school. They set a goal: get rich.
They built a successful direct-mail operation, published student directories and set up a service to send cakes to students on their birthdays. They also bought dilapidated real estate and refurbished it themselves. They graduated and went into law practice together after Mr. Fuller briefly served in the Army as a lieutenant.
As law partners, they continued to make money. Selling 65,000 locally produced tractor cushions to the Future Farmers of America made $75,000. Producing cookbooks for the Future Homemakers of America did even better, and they became one of the nation's largest cookbook publishers. By 1964, they were millionaires. Mr. Dees went on to help found the Southern Poverty Law Center.
Mr. Fuller's life changed completely after his wife, the former Linda Caldwell, whom he had married in 1959, threatened to leave him. She was frustrated that her busy husband was almost never around, and she had had an affair, their friend Bettie B. Youngs wrote in ''The House That Love Built'' (2007), a joint biography. For the rest of his career, he talked openly about repairing the marriage.
There was much soul-searching. Finally, the two agreed to start their life anew on Christian principles. Eschewing material things was the first step. Gone were the speedboat, the lakeside cabin, the fancy cars.
The Fullers went to Koinonia Farm, a Christian community in Georgia, where they planned their future with Clarence Jordan, a Bible scholar and leader there. In 1968, they began building houses for poor people nearby, then went to Zaire in 1973 to start a project that ultimately built 114 houses.
In 1976, a group met in a converted chicken barn at Koinonia Farm and started Habitat for Humanity International. Participants agreed the organization would work through local chapters. They decided to accept government money only for infrastructure improvements like streets and sidewalks.
Handwritten notes from the meeting stated the group's grand ambition: to build housing for a million low-income people. That goal was reached in August 2005, when home number 200,000 was built. Each home houses an average of five people.
The farm announced plans for a simple public burial service for Mr. Fuller on Wednesday.
Besides his brother, Doyle, of Montgomery, Ala., and his wife, Mr. Fuller is survived by their son, Christopher, of Macon, Ga.; their daughters, Kim Isakson of Argyle, Tex., Faith Umstattd of Americus, and Georgia Luedi of Jacksonville, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.
After Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Fuller Center built a house in Shreveport, La., for a mother and her daughters, one named Genesis, the other Serenity. Mr. Fuller loved the religious connotations he saw in their names.
''What will little Genesis become?'' he asked at the time. ''What will little Serenity become? We don't know, but we know one thing: if we give them a good place to live, they've got a better chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Millard Fuller in '04 at Habitat Global Village in Americus, Ga.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER PETRUSKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Fuller, left, and Jimmy Carter in 1987 at a New York site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD HAUSNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (90%); RELIGION (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (93%)

JIMMY CARTER (88%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, GA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



130 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Buffett Pays Low For Another Icon

BYLINE: By ALIZA ROSENBAUM and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Forget Sturgis, the annual South Dakota bikers' rally. Harley-Davidson riders may want to shift gears and head toward Omaha. That's because the motorcycle maker just joined General Electric, Coca-Cola, Goldman Sachs and Budweiser in Warren Buffett's collection of iconic American corporate brands. But unlike the chopper maker's leather-vested customers, the billionaire investor isn't paying a trophy price. Rather, Harley is paying a premium for Mr. Buffett's show of confidence.
In that sense, the deal is straight from the Berkshire Hathaway boss's downturn playbook. Earlier, he recapitalized Goldman Sachs and shored up General Electric, the country's premier industrial group. In those deals, Mr. Buffett got preferred stock on excellent terms with plenty of downside protection. 
With Harley, Mr. Buffett is buying $300 million in debt, a big chunk of the $1 billion the company ultimately wants to raise to shore up its financial services unit. Davis Selected Advisers is committing another $300 million. The business, which provides loans to dealers and consumers, lost $25 million in the fourth quarter. In return for their largess, Mr. Buffett and Davis are being paid a juicy 15 percent coupon -- nearly eight times the interest rate on a five-year Treasury bond.
As with his stakes in Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble and Kraft, or his financing help in the Mars-Wrigley merger, Mr. Buffett is wagering on the financial endurance of an iconic American brand. Harley has a global, nearly cultlike following, but has had a tough time finding buyers for its expensive wheels: new shipments are expected to fall as much as 13 percent in 2009, after an 8 percent drop in 2008.
The high interest rate on the loan is no surprise where Mr. Buffett is concerned. His arrival in the company's capital structure bolsters the case for copycat investors. Indeed, even though Mr. Buffett is way ahead of them in the pecking order in the event of a default, the deal pushed Harley shares up nearly 16 percent. Harley's investors are clearly betting that the legends of both Mr. Buffett and Harley will roll on.
A Lesson in Excess
Well-paid economists always offer persuasive reasons to be cheerful in the good times and equally convincing reasons to be gloomy in the bad. But some characteristics seem to persist. In the case of the Goldman Sachs economics team, and with less sophisticated observers of the financial world, one steady factor is excessive confidence.
In happier days, Goldman found an excellent reason for optimism -- BRIC. When the firm coined the acronym in 2001, it suggested that the growth of Brazil, Russia, India and China would be the economic story of the coming half-century. Two years ago, it still expected that steady growth in these countries would make any United States recession a short and local affair.
Now that the financial crisis has derailed BRIC and rich country alike, there are many good reasons for pessimism. Goldman is taking them more seriously than most. It forecasts 1.9 percent shrinkage of G.D.P. in the advanced economies this year and a relatively meager 4.7 percent growth in the BRIC lands. Recovery is expected to be slow.
Goldman played down the risks of the BRIC dream. The dependence of growth in Russia on oil, in China on exports, in India on improving governance and everywhere on cheap and abundant financing -- all were noted but then put aside. Now Goldman's experts want central banks and governments to act boldly. They are calling for steep rate cuts in Europe, without worrying about a huge British government deficit. And they are asking the Federal Reserve to create the monetary conditions that would cause the equivalent of a negative 6 percent policy interest rate in the United States.
Goldman's dismal scientists note, but dismiss, worries that the resulting torrents of money and government debt could lead to a breakdown among the 15 countries that use the euro, as well as sovereign defaults or uncontrolled inflation. But surely one lesson of the financial crisis is that too much debt has a nasty tendency to backfire in unexpected and painful ways.
Economists make so many mistakes in their forecasts that they can hardly afford to be too humble. They'd have to abandon the profession. But Goldman, which rightly or wrongly has considerable influence on policy makers, should at least try to learn caution.
ALIZA ROSENBAUM and EDWARD HADAS
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harley-Davidson is paying a premium for Warren Buffett's investment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCYCLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (77%); MERGERS (77%); RECESSION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BONDS (71%); PREFERRED STOCK (69%); BRIC COUNTRIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (88%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (90%); NEBRASKA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011



131 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Educated and Experienced, But Struggling to Find a Job

BYLINE: By ABBY AGUIRRE

 BODY:
It was 11 in the morning on Inauguration Day, and Nadja Smith, 55, was rushing home from an appointment with an employment counselor to her studio on East 90th Street. She had supported Hillary Rodham Clinton in the primaries, and had resented a seemingly widespread assumption that, because she is black, she would back Barack Obama. But she ultimately did vote for him in the general election, and she now wanted to hear from him something, anything demonstrating that he grasped what things were like for people in her position: college-educated and urbane, with professional experience, fluency in several languages and no job prospects in sight.
''It wasn't supposed to be this way,'' she said, in a self-mocking tone. 
Ms. Smith grew up in the Riverton Houses, a middle-class housing development built in Harlem in the 1940s. Her father was a teacher, her mother a guidance counselor. She attended Middlebury College in Vermont and, after developing an interest in acting, New York University.
In 1974, she left N.Y.U. to study with Jerzy Grotowski, the experimental-theater director, in Wroclaw, Poland. From there she moved to West Berlin, where she settled into a kind of charmed, bohemian life that on account of her race, she says, she had been unable make for herself in New York. Between lead roles on stage, including that of Jenny in ''The Threepenny Opera,'' she sang in a punk band called Blitz.
''Things got a lot more interesting when I left America,'' she said.
Then, early one morning in 1985, the phone in her Berlin apartment rang, and her first thought was that something had happened to her mother. In fact, the 4 a.m. call was from a friend, inviting her to a party at a cafe. But that was when she resolved to return to New York.
''I realized that if I was thinking that way, I had become anxious about the distance from my mom,'' she said. ''So I came home.''
Uncertain at first if she would stay, Ms. Smith moved in with her mother, who had separated from her father, in an apartment in the Bronx. In time, she moved into her current apartment, enrolled at Hunter College and started working toward a degree in film and media studies. When not in class, she worked at ''South Africa Now,'' a PBS television news magazine on apartheid.
When the show ended, in 1991, she intended to look for more work in journalism. But her objective faded after her mother developed a congestive heart condition. For the next four years, she worked part time and took the occasional class at Hunter, but mostly cared for her mother.
''She had to give up the independence that defined her,'' she said.
After her mother's death in 1995, what she thought would be temporary work for a marketing research firm turned into a decade's worth of employment in the field. The jobs provided her with income, if not fulfillment, until May 2006, when the company she worked for went out of business. Unemployment payments sustained her through December, odd jobs through the following year. But by May 2008, she owed four months in back rent.
Community Service Society, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, provided Ms. Smith with $3,633 to help her pay her arrears.
From May until November, Ms. Smith worked a seasonal job at the parks department. She has since paid her $1,000 rent with $150 a week in unemployment payments, a $200 monthly subsidy from the Human Resources Administration, a small bit of savings and by ''scrimping like nobody's business.''
She spends her days sending out resumes that emphasize her bachelor's degree, which she received in January 2008, her fluent German and French, and her proficiency in Polish, Russian and Spanish.
''I have to keep telling myself that I'm not a loser,'' she said.
She does not revisit a scrapbook from her years in Berlin. She prefers not to look at the newspaper clippings of her band, in which she appears in a leather jacket next to her guitar player, Carlo Karges, who after Blitz wrote the lyrics for the international hit ''99 Luftballons.'' She does occasionally belt out an old Blitz song: ''There's no gas for my car, not enough food to eat, had to sell my TV, lost my job last week!''
When Mr. Obama's name was announced before he took his oath of office, Ms. Smith, who as a rule is disinclined to sentimentality, could not curb an upwelling of emotion. She grabbed from the mantle above her closed fireplace a photograph of her mother, an elegant woman with high cheekbones, and held it up to the television, so that her mom, too, could watch.
How to Help
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245.
All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000
For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927.
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nadja Smith fell behind on her rent while looking for work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $6,728,161 Recorded Monday 44,367 Total $6,772,528 Last year to date $6,975,354 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); THEATER & DRAMA (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); THEATER (52%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



132 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Dark Days for Green Energy

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
Wind and solar power have been growing at a blistering pace in recent years, and that growth seemed likely to accelerate under the green-minded Obama administration. But because of the credit crisis and the broader economic downturn, the opposite is happening: installation of wind and solar power is plummeting.
Factories building parts for these industries have announced a wave of layoffs in recent weeks, and trade groups are projecting 30 to 50 percent declines this year in installation of new equipment, barring more help from the government. 
Prices for turbines and solar panels, which soared when the boom began a few years ago, are falling. Communities that were patting themselves on the back just last year for attracting a wind or solar plant are now coping with cutbacks.
''I thought if there was any industry that was bulletproof, it was that industry,'' said Rich Mattern, the mayor of West Fargo, N.D., where DMI Industries of Fargo operates a plant that makes towers for wind turbines. Though the flat Dakotas are among the best places in the world for wind farms, DMI recently announced a cut of about 20 percent of its work force because of falling sales.
Much of the problem stems from the credit crisis that has left Wall Street banks reeling. Once, as many as 18 big banks and financial institutions were willing to help finance installation of wind turbines and solar arrays, taking advantage of generous federal tax incentives. But with the banks in so much trouble, that number has dropped to four, according to Keith Martin, a tax and project finance specialist with the law firm Chadbourne & Parke.
Wind and solar developers have been left starved for capital. ''It's absolutely frozen,'' said Craig Mataczynski, president of Renewable Energy Systems Americas, a wind developer. He projected his company would build just under half as much this year as it did last year.
The two industries are hopeful that President Obama's economic stimulus package will help. But it will take time, and in the interim they are making plans for a dry spell.
Solar energy companies like OptiSolar, Ausra, Heliovolt and SunPower, once darlings of investors, have all had to lay off workers. So have a handful of companies that make wind turbine blades or towers in the Midwest, including Clipper Windpower, LM Glasfiber and DMI.
Some big wind developers, like NextEra Energy Resources and even the Texas billionaire T. Boone Pickens, a promoter of wind power, have cut back or delayed their wind farm plans.
Renewable energy sources like biomass, which involves making electricity from wood chips, and geothermal, which harnesses underground heat for power, have also been slowed by the financial crisis, but the effects have been more pronounced on once fast-growing wind and solar.
Because of their need for space to accommodate giant wind turbines, wind farms are especially reliant on bank financing for as much as 50 percent of a project's costs. For example, JPMorgan Chase, which analysts say is the most active bank remaining in the renewable energy sector, has invested in 54 wind farms and one solar plant since 2003, according to John Eber, the firm's managing director for energy investments.
In the solar industry, the ripple effects of the crisis extend all the way to the panels that homeowners put on their roofs. The price of solar panels has fallen by 25 percent in six months, according to Rhone Resch, president of the Solar Energy Industries Association, who said he expected a further drop of 10 percent by midsummer.
(For homeowners, however, the savings will not be as substantial, partly because panels account for only about 60 percent of total installation costs.)
After years when installers had to badger manufacturers to ensure they would receive enough panels, the situation has reversed. Bill Stewart, president of SolarCraft, a California installer, said that manufacturers were now calling to say, ''Hey, do you need any product this month? Can I sell you a bit more?''
The turnaround reflects reduced demand for solar panels, and also an increase in supply of panels and of polysilicon, a crucial material in many panels.
On the wind side, turbines that once had to be ordered far in advance are suddenly becoming available.
''At least one vendor has said that they have equipment for delivery in 2009, where nine months ago they wouldn't have been able to take new orders until 2011,'' Mr. Mataczynski of Renewable Energy wrote in an e-mail message. As he has scaled back his company's plans, he has been forced to cancel some orders for wind turbines, forfeiting the deposit.
Banks have invested in renewable energy, lured by the tax credits. But with banks tightly controlling their money and profits, the main task for the companies is to find new sources of investment capital.
Wind and solar companies have urged Congress to adopt measures that could help revive the market. But even if a favorable stimulus bill passes, nobody is predicting a swift recovery.
''Nothing Congress does in the stimulus bill can put the market back where it was in 2007 and 2008, before it was broken,'' said Mr. Martin, the tax lawyer with Chadbourne & Parke. ''But it can help at the margins.''
The solar and wind tax credits are structured slightly differently, but the House version of the stimulus bill would help both industries by providing more immediate tax incentives, alleviating some of their dependency on banks.
Both House and Senate would also extend an important tax credit for wind energy, called the production tax credit, for three years; previously the industry had complained of boom-and-bust cycles with the credit having to be renewed nearly every year.
Over the long term, with Mr. Obama focused on a concerted push toward greener energy, the industry remains optimistic.
''You drive across the countryside and there's more and more wind farms going up,'' said Mr. Mattern of West Fargo. ''I still have big hopes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at an OptiSolar plant in California inspecting solar panels. Because business has slowed, OptiSolar recently laid off workers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Towers for wind turbines on the ground at the DMI Industries plant in West Fargo, N.D. Falling sales and tight credit have forced the company to lay off nearly 20 percent of its employees.
 Despite layoffs, Rich Mattern, the mayor of West Fargo, N.D., has high hopes for wind energy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (92%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); BIOMASS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (82%); NEXTERA ENERGY RESOURCES LLC (59%); CLIPPER WINDPOWER INC (59%); RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS221115 WIND ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (59%); NAICS221114 SOLAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (59%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (59%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3511 STEAM, GAS, & HYDRAULIC TURBINES & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS (59%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (90%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



133 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: As Votes Are Tallied, Former Iraqi Leader Re-emerges as Rival to Current One

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Alissa J. Rubin reported from Tikrit, and Steven Lee Myers from Baghdad. Suadad al-Salhy, Riyadh Mohammed and Mudhafer al-Husaini contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
TIKRIT, Iraq -- Ayad Allawi, the first prime minister selected after the Americans handed power back to Iraqis in June 2004, has made a comeback in the provincial elections, unofficial preliminary returns indicate, setting himself up as a potential rival to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
Here in Salahuddin Province, which has a Sunni majority, Mr. Allawi's Iraqi National List appears to have won a plurality of the votes, and informal counts suggest that his party was among the top three vote-getters in at least two other provinces.
Official tallies will not be available until the end of the week; the preliminary results are rough estimates gathered from local election officials, election monitors and political parties.
Mr. Allawi's probable gains are the latest sign of a trend toward secular leaders who support a strong centralized state, and of the role of provincial elections in potentially realigning power. 
In the overwhelmingly Sunni province of Anbar, for example, two Sunni coalitions vying to wrest control from the governing Iraqi Islamic Party, another Sunni bloc, which has been in power since 2005, have declared that they will not accept any results that return the party to power. The government there extended a curfew for the second day. A security official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the press, said the curfew was likely to continue until the election results were final.
In Salahuddin Province, north of Baghdad, by contrast, there seemed little doubt that the results would be accepted. Mr. Allawi appears to have won because he has been a strong critic of American post-invasion policies that hurt former members of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party and others who worked in the Hussein government. Mr. Allawi is himself a secular Shiite and a former Baathist turned opposition leader in exile during Mr. Hussein's rule.
''Ever since 2004, Dr. Allawi called for the reverse of Bremer's order to disband the Iraqi Army and security services and to have de-Baathification,'' said Hamad Hamood al-Qaysi, the governor of Salahuddin, referring to L. Paul Bremer III, the administrator of the Coalition Provisional Authority, which ran Iraq after the American invasion. Mr. Bremer disbanded the army and issued a sweeping order barring former Baathists from government service, moves that several political analysts say helped strengthen the insurgency.
''Dr. Allawi's words have echoed among all those who worked for those dissolved agencies, because people felt that was a mass sanction against them,'' Mr. Qaysi said.
Mr. Qaysi, who was one of the top candidates on the Iraqi National List in the province, was overwhelmed by well-wishers as the news of the party's showing emerged. Men in business suits and tribal sheiks walked into his office to kiss him on both cheeks in the Arab fashion and shake his hands -- even though some said they had not voted for him.
The biggest problem in the province is unemployment, much of it caused by the Americans' de-Baathification policies and the disbanding of the Iraqi Army. De-Baathification was embraced by the Shiite-majority government that followed Mr. Allawi's. With few jobs other than agricultural ones, many Tikritis had found work in the government because they were from Mr. Hussein's home province; Mr. Hussein's hometown is just a few miles from Tikrit.
More than 10,000 families have applied for aid because their breadwinner lost a government or military job, said Khasseen al-Jabara, the leader of the province's tribal council, which is involved in setting local policy.
''The background of all our neighbors is military; we have this problem because the former president was from here so most officers in the security services, the Mukhabarat and the army were from here,'' said Mr. Jabara, referring to the intelligence service. He said he agreed with Mr. Allawi's party's positions but would not say whether he voted for the party.
Like several of those interviewed, he emphasized that in this semirural province there was rarely more than one breadwinner in each family so if that person lost a job, it affected a far wider group.
Mansour al-Jubori, a former lieutenant colonel in the Iraqi Army, said Mr. Allawi directly addressed his plight.
''I am an army officer, and in the past he did not talk about our problems so much, but this time he did and I liked that so I voted for him,'' Mr. Jubori said. ''He's calling to nullify the regulations that made me jobless.''
His brother, a former director general in the presidential office for unions, a political post, has been unemployed since the invasion. ''I have served the government for 30 years and I have no salary, no pension, and I cannot ever work for the government again,'' Mr. Jubori's brother said.
The brothers live in Al Ani, a rural community about 12 miles from Tikrit that is the home of many former Baathists. Unemployment is particularly high here, and there are many signs for a starkly anti-American party: the Liberation and Reconstruction List. Its slogan is ''Get Out, Get Out Occupier.''
Mr. Allawi recruited leading sheiks to run on his list in Salahuddin and relied on the governor's popularity to help raise his party's profile.
Like many in Tikrit, the governor has faced his share of tragedy, which gave him credibility as a spokesman for Mr. Allawi's party. He fought Sunni extremists and lost his wife to a bomb attack by Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a homegrown group that American intelligence says has foreign leaders. Then his son was killed in a raid by American forces, who later apologized and said they had received bad intelligence.
Since the election curfew was lifted, there have been several attacks in Diyala and Nineveh Provinces. In Anbar, Sheik Ahmed Abu Risha, the leader of the Sunni Awakening, a movement whose members once fought against the Americans but later turned against Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and other extremists, warned that the result threatened to reignite the insurgency.
That prompted a denunciation from the Iraqi Islamic Party. ''The fiery statements by the head of the Sahwa are not civilized, legal or democratic at all,'' Omar Abdul Sattar, a member of Parliament who belongs to the party, said, using the Arabic term for the Awakening movement. ''We won't allow bringing Anbar back to the old days of chaos.''
Sheik Hammid al-Hayes, who was once part of the Awakening but now leads a separate tribal council called Salvation, denounced the Iraqi Islamic Party, which he said abused its authority and stuffed ballot boxes after the polls closed on Saturday.
''If the results aren't acceptable, then we'll bring back the old days,'' Sheik Hayes said Tuesday. ''We will use rifles again, and we will eliminate the Islamic party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An election poster for the party of Ayad Allawi, far left, was pasted on a wall in Tikrit, Iraq, that also bears a painting of Saddam Hussein. Mr. Allawi's party seems to have won a plurality in the area.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); RELIGION (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ELECTION MONITORING (72%); CURFEW (66%); ARMIES (65%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011



134 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Rider Paradox: Surge in Mass, Drop in Transit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
Buses will no longer stop at some 2,300 stops in and around this city at the end of next month because, despite rising ridership, the struggling transit system plans to balance its books with layoffs and drastic service cuts. 
 One stop scheduled to be cut is in the western suburb of Chesterfield, Mo., just up the road from a bright, cheerful nursing home called the Garden View Care Center. Without those buses, roughly half of the center's kitchen staff and half of its housekeeping staff -- people like Laura Buxton, a cook known for her fried chicken who comes in from Illinois, and Danette Nacoste, who commutes two hours each way from her home in South St. Louis to her job in the laundry -- will not have any other way to get to work. 
 ''They're going to be stranding a whole lot of people,'' said Val Butler, a nurses' assistant at Garden View, who said that she feared looking for work elsewhere in a tightening economy. ''A lot of people are going to lose their jobs. A lot of people.'' 
 St. Louis may be girding itself for some of the most extreme transit cuts in the nation, but it is hardly alone. Transit systems across the country are raising fares and cutting service even when demand is up with record numbers of riders last year, many of whom fled $4-a-gallon gas prices and stop-and-go traffic for seats on buses and trains. 
 Their problem is that fare-box revenue accounts for only a fifth to a half of the operating revenue of most transit systems -- and the sputtering economy has eroded the state and local tax collections that the systems depend on to keep running. ''We've termed it the 'transit paradox,' '' said Clarence W. Marsella, general manager of Denver's system, which is raising fares and cutting service to make up for the steep drop in local sales tax.
 The billions of dollars that Congress plans to spend on mass transit as part of the stimulus bill will also do little to help these systems with their current problems. That is because the new federal money -- $12 billion was included in the version passed last week by the House, while the Senate originally proposed less -- is devoted to big capital projects, like buying train cars and buses and building or repairing tracks and stations. Money that some lawmakers had proposed to help transit systems pay operating costs, and avoid layoffs and service cuts, was not included in the latest version.
 The Washington Metro set a record on Inauguration Day last month when people made 1.5 million trips on it to see the swearing-in of President Obama, but its $176 million budget gap means that it is planning to cut service and eliminate 900 jobs. Chicago had its biggest gain in riders in three decades last year, but was forced to raise fares. Charlotte, N.C., whose new light-rail system is the envy of transit planners around the country, and which is enjoying its biggest ridership levels since ''the days of streetcars,'' according to Keith Parker, the transit system's chief executive, will be running its new trains less frequently, raising fares and cutting back on bus service.
 In New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is considering steep fare increases and its deepest service cuts in years to help close a $1.2 billion deficit. In addition to considering a 23 percent increase in fares and tolls, the authority is weighing plans to eliminate more than two dozen city bus routes and two subway lines, reduce off-peak service and even close some subway stations at night. 
 The nation's transit woes threaten to deal another blow to the weak economy, keeping some workers from jobs they commute to and forcing some systems to lay off administrators, bus drivers, train operators and mechanics. And while the economic stimulus package being considered on Capitol Hill includes tax cuts intended to put more spending money in people's pockets, fare increases promise to take a big bite for many commuters.
 Big systems in Boston, Atlanta and San Francisco, and smaller ones across the nation, find themselves weighing cuts or fare increases that they fear could erode the gains they have made in attracting new riders. Beverly A. Scott, general manger of Marta, the Atlanta system, said as the sales tax revenue continued to drop, she was weighing everything from fare increases to service cuts to even selling the naming rights to stations -- but she still hopes for more state support. 
 William W. Millar, president of the American Public Transportation Association, an industry group, wrote to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, last month urging her to include money for operating costs in the stimulus bill. 
 ''Public transportation ridership is surging across the country,'' he wrote, ''increasing 6.5 percent in the third quarter of 2008 -- the largest quarterly increase in the past 25 years, but transit systems are cutting service, increasing fares and laying off employees as a result of increased transit fuel costs in the past year and declining state and local revenue sources that support transit.''
 So even as the federal government plans to buy new train cars and buses for some transit systems, places like St. Louis find themselves without enough money to pay the bus drivers and light-rail train operators that they have now. 
 ''I have 165 buses that I'm going to have to put in mothballs,'' said Ray Friem, the chief operating officer at Metro, the St. Louis system. ''There's a ton of federal money tied up in those assets.''
 Money is so tight that the agency is not planning to rip out the bus stop signs that dot the roads, though they will soon be misleading. Instead, at the transit system's headquarters upriver from the Gateway Arch, officials last week put the final touches on a model of a vinyl hood they plan to drape over each sign. ''We regret due to a lack of funding, service to this stop is suspended,'' the prototype said. 
 St. Louis is in some respects unique. It was in the minority of transit systems that lost a ballot measure in November seeking more money; voters rejected a proposal to raise the local sales tax to help pay for more public transportation. Transit officials said they believed their efforts had been hurt by lingering public resentment over a light-rail expansion project that was delayed and went over budget, devolving into messy litigation with contractors that ended up costing the transit system even more.
 Faced with a yawning shortfall, despite an 8 percent increase in ridership last year, the system reluctantly decided to cut nearly half of its bus service; lay off nearly 600 of its workers, or a quarter of its work force, and reduce service on its red, white and blue MetroLink light-rail cars -- the modern successors of the clanging trolleys that Judy Garland sang about in ''Meet Me in St. Louis.'' Absent a windfall, the cuts are scheduled to take effect at the end of March.
 Some people who worked on the failed campaign to raise the sales tax said their efforts were complicated because most local voters do not regularly take public transportation. But in the leafy suburbs west of Interstate 270, which are scheduled to lose almost all of their bus service, many people will soon discover that even if they do not take buses themselves, they rely on them to bring workers to their shopping malls, office parks, hospitals and nursing homes.
 The Garden View Care Center, in Chesterfield, is part of a cluster of a dozen facilities sometimes called nursing home row. Rhonda Uhlenbrock, the center's administrator, has been working with agencies that set up car pools and trying to coordinate with other businesses that will be affected to see if she can find other ways for her employees, many of whom do not have cars, to get to work.
 ''This place could survive without me,'' Ms. Uhlenbrock said in her office recently, where she was assembling a collage to honor employees who have been at the center more than 10 years. ''But not without them. They are the people who do the work.''
 Ms. Nacoste, who rises at 3:45 a.m. for her two-hour commute to work in the housekeeping and laundry department, said employers closer to home either paid less or were not hiring. She shook her head at the thought that the weak economy was leading to cuts in bus service. 
 ''They're going to make the economy worse if they cut the bus,'' Ms. Nacoste said. ''There's going to be unemployment, people running out of money. What are we going to do?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: St. Louis is girding itself for some of the most drastic service cuts in the country.
 Val Butler worries about her commute to the Garden View Care Center in Chesterfield, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) CHART: COMMUTING WOES: Many transit systems across the country reported increased ridership last year but are raising fares and cutting service because the weak economy means that the state and local taxes they rely on are shrinking. Most systems are heavily subsidized and receive just a portion of their revenues from fares. A look at several systems: (Source: American Public Transportation Association) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRAINS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); SALES TAX (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



135 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: A Waltz of Gilt and Truffles

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
DINNER at the Plaza: could any of New York City's grand promises sound more elegant, timeless and deliciously grown-up? Just say those words and you can see the bubbles in a Champagne glass, hear the tinkling of piano music. You'll wear a jacket, even if the restaurant does not require it. Tradition and history do.
 Dinner at the Plaza: it's a dance into the past, a waltz with legend. 
 Opened more than a century ago, the Plaza was mythic even before Eloise was tucked into it, a pint-size princess tormenting the knights and knaves in Midtown's unofficial castle. There's a reason no one speaks of Eloise at the Best Western. Her adventures required a setting more gilded and storied than that. 
 Dinner at the Plaza: it's a plausible scenario and sensible option for the first time in a long time. 
 After many years in which the hotel (now a condominium residence, too) lacked a restaurant of real ambition and achievement, its magisterial Oak Room reopened nearly three months ago with the clear intention of being more than just a tarted-up trough for wealthy tourists or a catered diorama of old New York.
 It has been meticulously and gorgeously restored. An acclaimed French-born chef was recruited to supervise the kitchen. And those developments combined, on the best of the nights when I dined there, to produce a lovely experience of a rarefied sort.
 My fork sank into tender venison in a classically dark, rich, winy sauce as my eyes traveled up, up, up the sculptured oak walls toward a ceiling more than two stories high. 
 That ceiling was framed by yard upon yard of gold molding and trim. If heaven is wood-paneled, it probably looks something like this.
 But on other nights I had meals stippled with disappointment. More than a few dishes were clumsily executed or vacuously luxurious. Seldom have I had so many black truffle shavings thrown at me to so little effect.
 The prices aren't crazy in the context of such truffling and trappings; in fact, they're reportedly 25 percent lower than they were slated to be back in the early fall, before the economy deteriorated further.
 But they remain steep enough -- $34 for cod, $44 for a double-cut pork chop -- to build expectations for meals more seamless than the ones I had.
 I'd recommend the Oak Room for anyone intent on an inimitable atmosphere and a baronial sense of splurge and who is willing to risk a forgettable, or even frustrating, meal. (Jackets, by the way, aren't required but are ''definitely preferred,'' as a reservationist told me.)
 There's the chance of a fine time. There's a first-rate wine list, put together by Joshua Nadel, who worked at Veritas and Cru, with accessibly priced bottles showcased right up front, where you can't miss them.
 And there's aptly pampering service, including the brisk delivery of dinner rolls whose gamut of temperatures ran from very warm to piping hot. Merely toasty or cool were clearly not countenanced.
 But for anyone seeking relatively firm assurance that a serious tab will mean serious pleasure, the Oak Room won't do. It's more looker than performer.
 Restoration of this landmark space was mostly confined, by law and logic, to scrubbing and burnishing, so everything shines and the western wall's frescolike paintings of splendid, spooky hilltop castles are as vivid as ever. But there are also new accents and furnishings, including shimmering lights and plush chairs with bold, wavy stripes. It's all very Versace-goes-to-Oxford, or maybe to Hogwarts.
 The menu is somewhat odd, mingling hokey and cheeky, true-blue upscale and make-believe downscale.
 Appetizers of chicken noodle soup (precisely that, and vapid) and chicken wings (boneless, splashed with foie gras sauce and accessorized with truffle slices) keep company with a classic entree of beef tenderloin Rossini. The dessert list makes room for both crepe suzette and carrot cake (of a sort). 
 The chef, Joel Antunes, seems intent on some middle ground between reverence and mischief, and brings considerable training and experience to the task. His cooking at the Atlanta restaurant Joel won him wide regard.
 He brings skill, too; evident in an excellent appetizer of hamachi ceviche with bright, lively currents of pineapple, avocado, rosemary and lime, and in an entree of duck a l'orange for a new era, with a kumquat chutney carrying much of the sweet, citrusy load.
 The tenderness of the venison was echoed in roasted lamb tenderloin, beautifully presented as rounded columns of meat.
 But there were letdowns, huge and many. Thanks to overcooked pasta, a lasagna appetizer with a sunchoke puree degenerated into mush -- and pricey mush at that. It was $58, reflecting a bevy of black truffles. But the truffles in this dish, and in many others, had little taste.
 The salmon in another appetizer was frigid and hard, and the fish's flavor was lost among a literal blizzard of effects, including mustard ice cream.
 An entree of baked turbot was over-sauced and the pork chop was seriously overcooked, a tough, juiceless mountain of meat. My companions and I didn't bother to summit it.
 On that night we enjoyed fewer than half of our dishes, at least until dessert, when our spirits were lifted by the pastry chef Eric Snow's creamy, intense chocolate mousse and the carrot cake -- served, ingeniously, with gingerbread ice cream and an outstanding, cream-cheese-flavored mousse of its own.
 The Oak Room isn't particularly lively, but the Oak Bar, with windows onto Central Park, is. It alone serves food during the day: a $26 burger whose condiment of ''tomato confit'' was more cloying and intrusive than ketchup; a terrific lobster Cobb salad with enough sweet, supple shellfish to justify its $28 price.
 But that was lunch at the Plaza. Dinner at the Plaza was what quickened my pulse, and what didn't manage to be as joyous in the eating as in the imagining.
 The Oak Room
 *
 10 Central Park South (Fifth Avenue); (212) 758-7777 or oakroomny.com.
 ATMOSPHERE Gorgeous wood-paneled walls soar to a gold-trimmed ceiling in a room as Old World as the New World gets.
 SOUND LEVEL Moderate.
 RECOMMENDED DISHESLobster Cobb salad; quail ravioli; hamachi ceviche; chicken liver terrine; lamb; venison; pheasant; chocolate mousse; carrot cake.
 WINE LIST Extensive, international and impressive, with noteworthy selections well under $100 and well over $500.
 PRICE RANGE Dinner appetizers, $12 to $58; entrees, $29 to $59; desserts, $12 to $18. 
 HOURS Dinner from 5:30 to 10:30 p.m. nightly, with a limited bar menu in the Oak Bar until midnight. Lunch in the Oak Bar, noon to 2:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and brunch in the Oak Room and Bar from 11:30 a.m. to 2:45 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. 
 RESERVATIONS Call at least a week ahead for prime times.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards. 
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Separate, street-level entrance to the left of the restaurant's; elevator to accessible restrooms on lower level.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FOR THE NEXT 100 YEARS: The refurbished Oak Room at the Plaza hotel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



136 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Australia and Japan Offer New Stimulus Plans

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and MERAIAH FOLEY. 
Bettina Wassener reported from Hong Kong and Meraiah Foley from Sydney.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Australia announced a $26.5 billion stimulus plan and an interest rate cut on Tuesday and the Japanese central bank said it would start buying shares held by beleaguered banks, the latest examples of stimulus measures in response to a deepening recession.
 In Japan alone, tens of thousands of job cuts have been announced in the last two weeks, and in China some 20 million of the country's 120 million migrant workers are thought to have lost their jobs. The export-driven economies of Asia countries have been hit particularly hard in recent weeks as demand from Europe and the United States has collapsed. ''Things will remain very challenging for some time,'' said Patrick Bennett, foreign exchange and rate strategist with Societe Generale in Hong Kong. 
 ''Recent trade figures from South Korea, for example, are evidence of a marked slowdown in global activity,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''The old consensus that there might be some improvement in the second half of this year is looking increasingly optimistic.''
 Just like much of the industrialized western world, ''the Asian region is also going into serious recession,'' said Steve Keen, a professor for economics at the University of Western Sydney.
 More stimulus add-ons are widely expected as the recession drags on.
 China, which announced a package of infrastructure spending and other measures last November, is widely expected to announce fresh steps to bolster growth and safeguard jobs in the weeks ahead. And central banks in the euro zone and Britain are expected to continue their string of interest rate cuts in a bid to pull those economies out of recession.
 In Japan, where rates are already near zero, the Bank of Japan is relying on other tools -- like buying commercial paper, a type of short-term debt -- in an effort to ease credit conditions and get banks lending again.
 On Tuesday, the central bank announced that it would deploy yet another tool in its arsenal: it plans to buy up to 1 trillion yen, or $11.1 billion, of the shares that Japanese banks hold in other corporations. The plan, similar to purchases the central bank made from 2002 though 2004, is intended to shore up banks' capital and reduce their exposure to the stock market.
 Over all, the Japanese financial system has remained stable, mainly because Japanese lenders had little exposure to the mortgage-related troubles that set off the current global woes. But many Japanese banks own a large number of shares in other companies. Last year's stock market rout sharply reduced the value of those portfolios, and thus the capital base of the banks themselves. Many have now reported ''massive realized and unrealized losses,'' the Bank of Japan said in a statement, adding that the risk of market fluctuations now remained ''their critical business challenge.''
 Analysts welcomed the move, saying it could help ease tightening financing ahead of March 31, the end of the fiscal year for most Japanese companies.
 If the Bank of Japan, ''is stepping in as a buffer, that is clearly a good thing,'' said Jesper Koll, president of Tantallon Research Japan in Tokyo. ''But what would be really good would be to force banks to sell all their cross-shareholdings and thus get rid of that risk altogether.''
 Meanwhile, Australia still has plenty of conventional policy tools to deploy in its effort to prop an economy whose main driver -- mining -- is fizzling.
 The Australian central bank lowered its benchmark cash rate by a full percentage point on Tuesday, to a record low of 3.25 percent. Altogether, the bank has lowered the rate by 4 percentage points in five steps since Sept. 3.
 Also Tuesday, the government outlined a new stimulus plan, which complements measures announced last year. 
 ''The weight of the global recession is now bearing down on the Australian economy,'' said Wayne Swan, the Australian treasurer. ''In the midst of this global recession it would be irresponsible not to act swiftly and decisively to support jobs.''
 The measures comprise 42 billion Australian dollars, or $26.5 billion, in spending on infrastructure, schools and housing, as well as payments for low-income earners. Mr. Swan said they would allow Australia to stave off recession, though at the expense of causing the budget deficit to swell to 1.9 percent of gross domestic product.
 Australia's economy has benefited from a commodity boom, but as global growth grinds to a halt, raw materials prices have dropped off sharply, with oil now hovering just above $40. 
 Craig James, chief economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, called the new measures ''very positive.''
 ''We've got both arms of the Australian economy, both monetary and fiscal policy, working in unison,'' Mr. James said, and the combined stimulus measures ''should prevent the economy from notching up two consecutive quarters of negative growth, which is the technical definition of a recession.''
 Economists say a priority for the Asia-Pacific region in the longer term is to reduce its reliance on exports and to stimulate domestic consumption -- a shift that will take years to accomplish.
 The head of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on Tuesday held out some hope of recovery for the region in 2010, but stressed that it was ''impossible for Asia to have a recovery while the rest of the world is in bad shape.''
 Mr. James of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia said the impact of the regional stimulus packages depended on what happens in the United States.
 ''Once the U.S. authorities start to improve the functioning of the credit system, the financial system, then we'll start to see confidence return,'' he said. ''Once we do get improvement in the health of the U.S. financial system, there will be less need in places like Australia to go down this path of stimulus packages.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) JAPAN (96%); AUSTRALIA (94%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



137 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Panel Approves Lilly Drug For Clotting

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Potentially posing the first real challenge to Bristol-Myers Squibb's near monopoly on blood-thinning drugs, a federal advisory panel on Tuesday recommended that the Food and Drug Administration approve a new medicine from Eli Lilly & Company. 
 The drug, called prasugrel, is meant to prevent blood clots in patients who are at risk for heart attacks and strokes. 
 For the last six years, the Bristol-Myers drug Plavix has dominated the market for blood-thinning pills. Plavix had global sales of $7.3 billion in 2007, making it the world's second-best-selling drug after Pfizer's cholesterol treatment Lipitor, according to sales data compiled by IMS Health, a health care information company. 
 Last year, Plavix, which Bristol-Myers markets in a partnership with Sanofi-Aventis, had about $4.8 billion in United States sales -- representing 92.5 percent of the domestic market for such drugs, IMS said.
 But now Lilly means to challenge Plavix as the standard of care for patients who are undergoing surgery for coronary artery repair.
 After a daylong hearing on Tuesday, the advisory panel, voted 9 to 0 to recommend prasugrel's approval for patients who develop sudden blood clots inside a coronary artery, a problem called acute coronary syndrome. The F.D.A. typically, but not always, follows such recommendations.
 The recommendation had been widely expected. Lilly's stock ended the day up 3.8 percent, closing at $38.69. 
 The drug, which Lilly plans to market the under the brand name Effient, is not without risks. During the hearing, an F.D.A. cardiology expert said that prasugrel's tradeoff for increased effectiveness is higher risks. 
 Prasugrel reaches its maximum anticoagulant effect more quickly than does clopidogrel, the drug ingredient in Plavix, said the expert, Dr. Ellis F. Unger, the deputy director of the division of cardiovascular and renal drugs products at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the F.D.A.
 But prasugrel also significantly increases the risk of bleeding, according to a study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2007, in which about 13,600 people were randomly assigned to take either the new drug or clopidogrel.
 For every 1,000 patients treated with prasugrel instead of clopidogrel, there would be three fewer cardiac-related deaths and 21 fewer nonfatal heart attacks -- but there would also be two additional deaths caused by bleeding and three more incidents of serious but nonfatal bleeding, Dr. Unger told the panel. 
 In the prasugrel group, there was a higher incidence of bleeding among people who had previously had strokes, people age 75 or older and people who weighed less than 132 pounds. Because of those findings, industry analysts predicted that the F.D.A. would restrict the use of the new drug to certain patient groups. 
 ''Unfortunately for Lilly, they are going to limit prescribing on prasugrel,'' said David S. Moskowitz, an analyst at Carin & Company. ''It will have a narrower use. But for those patients, it will have superior results.''
 Analysts offered conservative sales projections for the new drug, which, if approved, is expected to go on sale this year. In a note to investors on Monday, Steve Scala, an analyst with Cowen & Company, estimated sales of prasugrel at $150 million for in 2009 and $1.5 billion by 2015. 
 Chris Schott, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, had lower estimates: $10 million for this year, $825 million by 2013. ''You need a much clearer side-effect profile and labeling to get the broad adoption you have with Plavix,'' Mr. Schott said.
 The prasugrel recommendation comes at a time when the F.D.A. is investigating concerns about Plavix's effectiveness among some types of patients.
 Last week, the agency issued an advisory saying it was examining studies from medical journals that reported either that the drug might not work in patients with certain genetic mutations or that certain acid-reflux drugs, called proton pump inhibitors, might reduce the drug's efficacy. Such drugs include Nexium and Prilosec. Meanwhile, the agency recommended that patients on Plavix continue to take it.
 During an earnings call last week, executives at Bristol-Myers recommended that cardiologists whose patients take Plavix consider prescribing a different kind of acid-reflux medication.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); BLOOD DISORDERS (90%); ANTICOAGULANTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); US FDA REVIEW (78%); STROKES (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CARDIOLOGY (76%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (92%); PFIZER INC (90%); ELI LILLY & CO (84%); SANOFI SA (84%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); LEL (LSE) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (84%); SANF (BIT) (84%); SAN (PAR) (84%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



138 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Venerable Bookstore To Close in Village

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Oscar Wilde Bookshop in Greenwich Village, which is believed to be the oldest gay and lesbian bookstore in the country, will close on March 29, its owner announced on Tuesday, citing economic troubles. 
 The store nearly closed six years ago, only to be sold and given a last-minute reprieve. 
 It was opened in 1967 on Mercer Street by Craig L. Rodwell, who was influential in the gay rights movement. It later moved to 15 Christopher Street. Mr. Rodwell, who inspired owners of gay bookshops around the country and who helped organize the city's first gay pride parade in 1970, died of stomach cancer in 1993.
 A store manager, Bill Offenbaker, bought the store, which was then sold to Larry Lingle in 1996. 
 In 2003, after Mr. Lingle said he could no longer afford to keep the store open, Deacon Maccubbin, the owner of Lambda Rising Bookstores in Washington, agreed to buy the store and keep it afloat. In 2006, Kim Brinster, the store's manager since 1996, became the store's fifth owner. 
 The bookstore, which occupies a storefront not much bigger than a typical Manhattan studio apartment, became a popular place for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities. 
 The store said it would continue to take orders through e-mail and through its Web site until mid-March. Ms. Brinster said the store would extend special offers and discounts to liquidate its inventory. 
 ''What a shame,'' said Martin B. Duberman, an emeritus professor of history at Lehman College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, when he heard of the store's closing.
 Professor Duberman knew the store's founder, Mr. Rodwell, and wrote about him in his 1993 book ''Stonewall.'' 
 ''Craig struggled very hard,'' Professor Duberman recalled in a phone interview. ''He had no real backing from other sources. It was pretty much always hand to mouth. In the early years, some people objected because he refused to carry any pornography. He eventually relented, though I can't tell you how long it took, but I'm sure that helped him move from a marginal life to at least a semiprosperous one.''
 The current owner, Ms. Brinster, 51, started as a manager at the store in 1996 when Mr. Lingle was the owner. Raised in Texas, she moved to New York City in 1979 to get a master's degree in religious education at Fordham University and later worked as a letter carrier until moving into the book business. 
 In a phone interview, she cited declining sales figures and said that on Tuesday, the store had only two paying customers. 
 ''People are hemorrhaging, and we're no exception,'' she said. 
 Ms. Brinster said she paid $3,000 a month in rent, which she said was already below market value.
 ''Even if we were rent-free, it wouldn't be enough for us to cover the bills we have,'' she said. ''This is one instance in New York where it's not a case of the landlord gouging the tenant. Our landlord has always been remarkable with us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The store's owner, Kim Brinster, said sales were slow
there were only two paying customers on Tuesday.
The Oscar Wilde Bookshop on Christopher Street in Greenwich Village is no bigger than an average studio apartment.
 The original store opened in 1967 on Mercer Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (65%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (55%); CANCER (55%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



139 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Liz Claiborne Plans to Cut Its Staff by 8%

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Liz Claiborne, the apparel company that owns popular labels including Kate Spade, Juicy Couture and Lucky Brand, said Tuesday it would cut 725 jobs, or 8 percent of its work force, as it tries to endure a consumer spending shutdown that has been particularly brutal for apparel retailers. 
 The company is also shutting its distribution center in Mount Pocono, Pa., and suspending merit pay increases for its employees. Those cost reductions come on top of sweeping changes to Liz Claiborne's operations that have been under way for more than a year. 
 Since 2007, Liz Claiborne -- which also owns department store labels like Kensie and, of course, the namesake Liz Claiborne brand -- has shut six distribution centers, eliminated about 2,200 jobs and sold, closed or licensed 14 of its brands. 
 ''As we strive to enhance our liquidity and prudently manage our business through this uncertain time, business leaders across our organization are continually reviewing all costs and determining where they can make an impact,'' William L. McComb, the chief executive of Liz Claiborne, said. 
 The retailing industry has been losing jobs at a rapid pace since the end of the worst Christmas shopping season in decades. Last month alone, thousands of jobs were eliminated by Home Depot, Saks, Neiman Marcus, Bon-Ton Stores, Pacific Sunwear, Wet Seal, Chico's FAS and Eddie Bauer. 
 On Monday, Macy's, the large American chain with which Liz Claiborne does extensive business, cut 7,000 jobs, or 4 percent of its work force. 
 The company has been struggling to put its house in order. Some analysts' concerns about Liz Claiborne were mollified last month when the company renegotiated a bank agreement. The company also ended 2008 with debt of about $745 million, lower than its previous projections. And it is preparing to introduce a line of clothing designed by Isaac Mizrahi.
 But so far, the changes have not been enough to compensate for the weak economy. Last month, Liz Claiborne cut its forecast to a range between a break-even profit and a loss of 15 cents, compared with its previous guidance of a profit of 19 to 24 cents. Moody's Investors Service subsequently said it would review the company for a possible downgrade in credit rating. 
 Additionally, sales at the Kate Spade, Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand and Mexx retail stores open at least a year -- an important measure of retail health -- each fell by double digits. 
 Like nearly every apparel retailer these days, Liz Claiborne is struggling to weather a recession in which consumers are in hiding and department stores are asking vendors to make concessions. 
 Mr. McComb said his company's fourth quarter ''was the most challenging we have experienced in decades,'' and acknowledged that deep discounts used to attract shoppers during the holiday season hurt its margins. 
 Shares of Liz Claiborne rose 17 cents, or 8 percent on Tuesday, to $2.20.
 Also on Tuesday, Bloomberg News reported that Fortunoff, the troubled home and jewelry chain, might file for bankruptcy protection. 
 NRDC Equity Partners acquired Fortunoff for $110 million last year, after the retailer filed for bankruptcy. At the time the NRDC chief executive, Richard Baker, said he planned to nearly double Fortunoff's size over the next five years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer being assisted at a Lucky Brand store in Manhattan. Sales of the brand, owned by Liz Claiborne, are declining.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RECESSION (76%); MERIT PAY (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CHRISTMAS (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (65%)

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (95%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); BON-TON STORES INC (57%); CHICO'S FAS INC (54%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (95%); BONT (NASDAQ) (57%); CHS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (95%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (54%)

PERSON: WILLIAM L MCCOMB (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



140 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Cellphone Sales Fading, Industry Tries to Adjust

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Cellphone sales are falling, manufacturers have announced thousands of layoffs and wireless carriers are finding it harder to acquire and keep customers.
 It seems like another tale of ''recession bites industry,'' but there are signs that this downturn is masking something more fundamental: that the cellphone industry's best days are behind it.
 Analysts and investors are beginning to ask whether the industry can continue growing. The challenge is both simple and daunting: how to expand when more than half of the six billion people on the planet already have phones. And even in developing countries where there are underserved markets, subscribers spend less on phones and services.
 Craig Moffett, an industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, is one of the skeptics. ''I don't think anyone would argue that the salad days of the wireless industry aren't over,'' he said. He added that in terms of subscriber growth in North America, ''we're awfully close to saturation.'' 
 ''It's not correct to call this a cyclical problem,'' Mr. Moffett said. ''To do so suggests that after the recession, growth rates will bounce back. There's no reason to believe that's the case.''
 The industry's tough news continued on Tuesday when Motorola announced its fourth-quarter earnings for 2008. The telecommunications equipment company, which is suspending its quarterly dividend, lost $3.6 billion in the fourth quarter, versus earnings of $100 million in the period a year ago. Sales were $7.14 billion, down 26 percent, from $9.65 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007. 
 Motorola sold 19.2 million cellphones in the quarter, down 53 percent from the period a year ago. It went from being the world's second-largest maker of cellphones in 2007 to its fifth-largest. 
 Sanjay Jha, Motorola's co-chief executive, said the industry would grow after the recession, but how much and how quickly is the interesting question. ''While it may not be possible to return to the explosive growth we've seen in wireless, there will be good, sustainable growth as data applications become essential,'' Mr. Jha said. 
 He said he believed that data -- Internet and text messages -- could assume the mantle of growth from voice communications. ''Data can be similarly influential in changing people's lives.''
 Nobody is looking at the cellphone industry and making comparisons with Detroit. There is little doubt that there are tens of billions of dollars to be made selling phones and providing services, particularly those involving data.
 The industry is pinning high hopes on a new generation of more powerful (and expensive) smartphones. AT&T activated 1.9 million iPhones in the fourth quarter, while Verizon added more than a million BlackBerry Storms. 
 Over all, these devices make up about 10 percent of the domestic cellphone market and are considered likely to grow in popularity, driving people to upgrade and pay for more data to do things like download songs and send text messages. In the fourth quarter, for example, AT&T's data revenue for each subscriber rose 27 percent, to $16.30, from about $12 a year earlier.
 Over the long term, the industry vigorously disputes the notion that it is anywhere near slowing down. ''If there's anything I can be extremely confident about, it's that our customer base wants new phones,'' said Denny Strigl, president and chief operating officer of Verizon, which owns 55 percent of Verizon Wireless (the Vodafone Group owns 45 percent). 
 Verizon and its chief rival, AT&T, each reported financial returns last week that hinted at challenges to sustained high levels of growth. Verizon Wireless gained 1.4 million subscribers, but that is down from 2 million a year earlier. AT&T gained 2 million subscribers, compared with 2.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. 
 SprintNextel recently announced plans to eliminate 8,000 jobs.
 Some industry analysts say they believe the lure of data and the fancier phones that support it will not stop growth rates from falling over time.
 Over all in the wireless industry, ''there's ton of money being made, but it's not going to grow as fast as people have experienced or as quickly as they're relying on it to in the future,'' said Ed Snyder, an analyst with Charter Equity Research. ''All this talk about data and other services bringing a renaissance of growth is wrong.''
 One challenge for the long-term growth of smartphones is that they are expensive. The average selling price of the AppleiPhone is $600 (without the carrier's subsidies) and the BlackBerry from Research in Motion costs $370, according to Broadpoint Amtech, a research firm. 
 By comparison, the average selling price of phones made by Motorola and Samsung (companies with fewer smartphones in their inventory) is around $120. Analysts have little doubt that this price differential will fall over time. But that still means the cellphone industry is depending on consumers to upgrade to a significantly more expensive product in the years ahead.
 Smartphones are also smart in preventing their own obsolescence. As they are more dependent on software than hardware to stay up to date, a downloaded upgrade or new application (one that mobile carriers are eager to sell) can do for some of these new phones what used to require an entirely new device. 
 Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, addressed this issue in 2007 when he introduced the iPhone, praising its adaptability when compared with more hardware-based competitors at the time.
 ''What happens if you think of a great idea six months from now?'' he asked about the other devices. ''You can't run around and add a button to these things; they've already shipped.''
 Smartphones notwithstanding, the number of handsets sold around the world has been falling in important regions -- even before the recession. In Western Europe, around 191 million mobile phones were sold in 2007, a figure that fell to 171 million in 2008 and is projected at 165 million in 2009, according to Carolina Milanesi, an analyst with the research firm Gartner. 
 In the United States, people bought 176 million handsets in 2007, and 184 million in 2008. That number will probably remain flat this year, the Gartner analyst said. She said that Europe might provide some indication of where the United States was headed because, as highly populated as it is with phones, it is still slightly behind Europe. 
 The toll seemed to blindside handset makers in the last quarter. Motorola said last month that it sold half as many phones in the fourth quarter than it had the year earlier, and announced 3,000 job cuts at its cellphone unit. 
 In the fourth quarter, Nokia sold 113 million handsets, down about 15 percent from the period a year earlier. Samsung Electronics said worldwide cellphone demand might be down 10 percent in 2009. 
 Meanwhile, new and more numerous competitors are fighting over that demand. The industry did not have to contend with Apple until two years ago. This year may bring a resurgent Palm with its Pre smartphone, as well as Dell, which is reportedly working on its own mobile device.
 ''The macro environment is challenging and we believe will remain clearly so in 2009,'' Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, Nokia's chief executive, said recently in a conference call with investors to discuss the earnings. He added that he believed Internet-centric phones and mobile services would drive a new generation of growth.
 ''It is clear that there is a tremendous opportunity to extend the value of the handset market through the integration of device hardware and Internet services,'' he said. ''This will drive the next wave of industry growth, and innovation will not stand still.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The arrival of the BlackBerry Storm caused lines to form last November at Verizon Wireless stores like this one in Manhattan. But the carrier gained fewer subscribers in 2008 than in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Razr phone from Motorola, which posted a sales decline.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) CHART: Heading Down: The cellphone industry has grown robustly for years. But in what could be part of a fundamental shift, that expansion may be coming to an end.(Source: Gartner) Chart details bar graph for cellphone sales.(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (79%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); DIVIDENDS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (70%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (70%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: SANJAY K JHA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



141 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: 2 Drug Makers' Results Beat Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Cost cuts allowed the drug makers Merck & Company and the Schering-Plough Corporation to post fourth-quarter results that topped expectations on Tuesday, sending shares higher despite waning sales for their shared cholesterol treatments.
 The two New Jersey-based companies, which announced significant job cuts last fall, have been striving to become more efficient amid setbacks to their cholesterol drugs Vytorin and Zetia, whose combined quarterly sales slumped 26 percent.
 The reports close out a mixed reporting season for large drug makers, many of which also relied on cost cuts to offset tepid sales. European rivals Roche Holding and GlaxoSmithKline report later this week. 
 ''Schering-Plough and Merck are both holding up pretty well when you consider what's happening in the economy,'' an analyst at Edward Jones, Linda Bannister, said.
 Merck shares were up 4.7 percent in late morning trading, while Schering shares were up 3.8 percent.
 Investor enthusiasm for the results was tempered by disappointing sales for significant products.
 Merck reported a 16 percent decline in sales of its Gardasil cervical cancer vaccine, and cut its expectation for the product's sales this year, while sales of Schering-Plough's Remicade arthritis drug missed analyst forecasts.
 Some analysts say they believe Schering could be the next large pharmaceutical takeover target on the heels of Pfizer's $68 billion deal to acquire Wyeth because of its relatively digestible size and because none of its big products face generic competition any time soon.
 ''Given the attractiveness that Pfizer thinks they can get out of the synergies with Wyeth, it would seem that pharma-on-pharma-type acquisitions still make sense from a cost standpoint,'' said Chris Armbruster, research analyst at Al Frank Asset Management.
 For the fourth quarter, Merck had net income of $1.64 billion, or 78 cents a share. That compared with a loss of $1.63 billion, or 75 cents a share, in the period a year ago, when Merck took a $4.85 billion charge related to a legal settlement for its withdrawn Vioxx arthritis drug.
 Excluding special items, earnings were 87 cents a share, 13 cents ahead of analysts' average estimate, according to Reuters Estimates.
 On top of cost controls, Merck's tax rate was about 10 percentage points lower than some analysts expected, bolstering results.
 Merck's sales fell 3 percent, to $6.03 billion, but were slightly ahead of the $5.98 billion expected by analysts. Combined sales of its new diabetes drugs, Januvia and Janumet, soared 80 percent to $533 million.
 The drug maker cut its forecast for 2009 Gardasil sales by about $300 million to a range of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion. Gardasil, which is facing competition from Cervarix from Glaxo, was recently denied approval by American regulators for use by women aged 27 to 45.
 For the quarter, Schering-Plough earned $442 million, or 27 cents a share. That compared with a loss of $3.4 billion, or $2.08 a share, a year earlier, when it took charges for its purchase of Organon BioSciences.
 Excluding items, Schering earned 39 cents a share, 9 cents ahead of analysts' targets.
 Sales, including new products from the Organon deal, rose 17 percent, to $4.35 billion, a bit shy of analysts' projection of $4.51 billion.
 Sales growth was crimped 6 percentage points by the strengthening dollar, which lowers the value of overseas sales when converted back into United States currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BIOLOGICS MFG (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CHOLESTEROL (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); CANCER (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CERVICAL CANCER (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); APPROVALS (60%); VACCINES (54%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%); DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (98%); PFIZER INC (92%); MERCK KGAA (91%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (91%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (90%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (98%); MRK (NYSE) (98%); PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); MRK (FRA) (91%); GSK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (LSE) (91%); BIOC (EGX) (91%); ROG (SWX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



142 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Index Shows a Rise in Pending Home Sales

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Enticed by tumbling housing prices, more Americans signed contracts to buy homes in December despite concerns about the economy, an industry group reported on Tuesday. 
 The National Association of Realtors said that pending home sales rose 6.3 percent in December from a month earlier, with strong gains in the South and Midwest. The number of pending home sales -- those in which a buyer has signed a contract but not closed -- were up 2.1 percent from December 2007.
 But economists cautioned that December could prove to be nothing more than a bump in real estate's long slide. 
 ''They rebounded from an all-time low, so the level is still low,'' said Patrick Newport, United States economist at IHS Global Insight. 
 The number of pending sales for 2008 was down 9.5 percent from 2007 -- a sign of the toll that the tight credit markets had inflicted on the flagging housing market. The Commerce Department reported that new-home sales in December fell to an annual rate of 331,000, their lowest point on record.
 The median home price in December was $175,400, down more than 15 percent from $207,000 in December 2007 and at its lowest point since May of 2003, the National Association of Realtors reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



143 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Grounded in Chicago

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Back in 2006, at the height of the real estate boom, two projects here stood out as harbingers of a bright future for residential development. 
 The first and most significant was the Spire, a twisting lakefront condominium tower designed by the renowned Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava. At 150 stories, it was to be the tallest building in North America. (The current tallest, the Sears Tower, is also in Chicago.) The developer of the Spire is Garrett Kelleher of Shelbourne Development, a firm with offices in Chicago and Dublin as well as several other cities. 
 The second project was Waterview Tower, a 90-story mixed-use hotel and condominium building in the Loop, the central business district. It also was to be among the 10 tallest buildings in the city. The developer is Teng & Associates, a local firm. 
 Both projects got off to fast starts in terms of sales and construction, but both have now ground to a halt amid the many mechanics' liens filed by subcontractors as the developers struggle to find additional financing. 
 At the padlocked lakefront site of the Spire, a seven-story-deep hole is ringed with 34 massive caissons that go down to bedrock.
 The Waterview site on Wacker Drive, meanwhile, is even more unsettling. Workers had completed the first 26 floors of the building before they stopped work for good late last summer. 
 Taken together, the two are the most visible signs of the financing squeeze that has all but paralyzed the real estate market here over the last six months. 
 ''If I'd known in July of 2006 that the world would be where it is today, I would have done a lot of things differently,'' Mr. Kelleher said. 
 Both Mr. Kelleher and Teng ran into trouble because of a practice that, while unconventional, had become more accepted in the later years of the boom. In their haste to start building, the developers used money from their own pockets to finance the early stages of construction rather than go through the lengthy process of securing a traditional construction loan. The expectation was that further financing would easily be obtained at a later date. 
 Jim Loewenberg, a co-chief executive of the Magellan Development Group, the developer of the multibuilding Lakeshore East mixed-use residential project directly across the Chicago River from the Spire, said neither Mr. Kelleher nor Teng & Associates necessarily did anything wrong. 
 ''I think that developers inherently are risk-takers and in many cases begin their projects before every t is crossed and every i is dotted,'' he said. ''So they lead themselves down a path, and sometimes it works out wonderfully and sometimes it doesn't.'' 
 Mr. Kelleher said: ''It was about getting started. I needed to demonstrate that I was committed to the project.''
 So far, Mr. Kelleher has invested about $250 million in the Spire; $180 million was cash from his own holdings and $70 million was in the form of two loans from the Anglo Irish Bank in Dublin. 
 When construction started, the plan, while aggressive, made sense. Total condominium sales were estimated at $3.4 billion, against total costs of $2.3 billion. 
 The project initially did well, selling just over 30 percent of its 1,194 units in the first eight months, at prices ranging from $750,000 to just under $40 million. The latter -- for the 10,000-square-foot penthouse -- is the highest price ever paid for a condominium in downtown Chicago. The contracts extend until the fourth quarter of 2013, and deposits are held in escrow until then. 
 Also significant was the fact that more than half of the sales were to individuals or entities outside the United States. ''We launched in January'' of 2008, Mr. Kelleher said, ''and went to Beijing, Singapore, Hong Kong, Dubai, London and a number of other markets.'' 
 In late September, Mr. Kelleher announced the penthouse sale -- to Ty Warner, founder of the company that makes Beanie Baby toys. Since then, ''things have slowed down,'' he said. 
 Mr. Kelleher estimates it will take about $1.75 billion to complete the Spire and says he has had conversations with numerous financial institutions, both in the United States and around the world, over the last 18 months. ''There's no financing available to build the Spire today,'' said Mr. Kelleher. ''It's a matter of waiting. And that's what the plan is.''
 Specifically, Mr. Kelleher is waiting for next fall, when the city will learn whether it will be the site of the 2016 Olympics. ''If Chicago lands the Olympics, it will certainly be a boost to the local economy,'' Mr. Kelleher said. 
 The situation is similar at Waterview Tower. Executives at Teng & Associates declined numerous requests for interviews, but reports about the project's troubles circulated widely last fall. 
 The $500 million mixed-use project began construction using internal financing from Teng and a $20 million bridge loan issued by the Chicago-based LaSalle Bank, which is now a division of Bank of America. 
 The plan called for 200 hotel condominium units as well as 233 residential condominiums on its upper floors. About 40 percent of the hotel units and 67 percent of the residential condominiums were sold, the latter for an average of $800 a square foot.
 ''Waterview had some of the best prices out there in terms of what you actually got, and sold very well,'' said James Kinney, president of Rubloff Residential Properties, a large downtown brokerage firm. 
 Last April, Teng announced that the Export-Import Bank of China would be providing the $400 million needed to complete the project. The loan was facilitated by Beijing Construction, a Chinese firm that was expected to take over as the building's general contractor. The deal, however, eventually fell apart. 
 ''It's not really too hard to determine why the bank got cold feet,'' said Zac Henson, chief executive of Beijing Construction's United States division. ''The economic news over the summer got worse and worse and never really got better.''
 According to Mr. Henson, the bank has yet to formally cancel the loan, but he conceded that at the moment the bank's appetite for the project was ''questionable.''
 Steven DeGraff, a lawyer who specializes in real estate workouts, says there are few good options in the current environment. ''It may be cheaper to tear it down,'' he said, ''or it may be cheaper just to leave it in its current state.''
 In the meantime, there are many more condominiums in the pipeline in Chicago.
 The city added 4,600 new condo units in the downtown area in 2008, with another 4,700 units scheduled to be completed this year. The rate at which these new units are being occupied is lagging, however.
 ''Absorption last year was terrible -- probably around 1,000 units,'' said Gail Lissner, vice president of the Chicago-based Appraisal Research Counselors, which tracks downtown condo sales. ''It's going to take some time to work through this inventory.'' 
 The upside, she adds, is that only 500 new units are expected in 2010 and fewer than that in the following years. ''Any project that is not out of the ground now is going to have a very difficult time getting financing,'' she said.
 Prices, meanwhile, are down anywhere from 5 to 25 percent, depending on location and amenities. ''The more generic, the more negotiable,'' Mr. Kinney said. ''If you want a two-bedroom two-bathroom plain-vanilla condo in downtown Chicago, I can get you a very good deal.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The lakefront site for the Spire, a condominium tower designed by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.
 Construction has stopped at Waterview Tower, center with crane on top, a mixed-use hotel and condominium building in the Loop in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



144 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise, but Uncertainty Lingers

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Good earnings reports from two pharmaceutical companies and an unexpected bit of positive news from the housing market lifted stock markets higher on Tuesday, though financial companies continued to lag. 
 Investors are anxiously looking to Washington for guidance about the economy and repairing the financial system, market analysts said. They are also waiting to see whether the Treasury Department will announce a plan to deal with the toxic assets still weighing down major financial institutions.
 David Katz, chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors, said that stock markets were being held hostage by uncertainty surrounding the $800 billion stimulus plan and how the government will administer the second half of the $700 billion financial bailout. 
 ''For the near term, that's put the market in a near-panic mode and has been the great cause of the stock market declining early this year,'' Mr. Katz said. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 141.53 points, or 1.78 percent, to at 8,078.36 in light trading volume, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.58 percent, or 13.07 points to 838.51. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite was 1.46 percent higher at 1,516.30.
 Many market analysts expect lots of market volatility over the next six months as the economy struggles to find the bottom of a long recession.
 ''The bears are still in the driver's seat,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. ''The thought is, 'We've priced in a very, very bad recession if not a depression. Now let's sit back and wait.' ''
 Investors are also anxious for the government to release new unemployment figures on Friday, which will offer a window into how the economy fared in January. The economy shed more than a million jobs in November and December, and economists expect the January unemployment rate to rise to 7.5 percent from 7.2 percent.
 ''At this point, we just want to know who's going to survive, who's going to fail, and whether banks are going to start to lend again,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial.
 In a positive note for the housing market, the National Association of Realtors reported that the number of homes with signed contracts rose in December, beating expectations. The group's pending home sales index rose 6.3 percent in December, a sign that buyers were taking advantage of tumbling home prices.
 But a separate report from the Commerce Department showed that vacancies of for-sale homes were still at high levels.
 Shares of the drug maker Merck & Company rose 6.4 percent to close at $30.24 after it reported a fourth-quarter profit. The home builder D. R. Horton rose 21.4 percent to $7.42 after reporting narrower-than-expected losses, and the drug maker Schering-Plough rose 8.2 percent to $18.91 a share after reporting profits that beat expectations.
 Shares of Ford Motor rose slightly to $1.96 a share after the automaker reported that its sales fell 39 percent in January, but said its share of the retail market had increased. General Motors announced that its sales had tumbled 49 percent in January. Shares of G.M. fell 4 cents, to $2.85. 
 Sales at Chrysler, which is not publicly traded, fell 55 percent.
 Battered financial stocks, which have fallen more than 25 percent since the start of the year, were a drag on the broader markets again on Tuesday. Big banks like Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase were all lower as investors continued to worry about their financial stability.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose to 2.89 percent, from 2.72 late Monday. The price of the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction of yield, fell 1 14/32, to 107 10/32.
 Crude oil settled at $40.78 a barrel, up 70 cents.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (84%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (63%); MATRIX ASSET ADVISORS INC (57%); D R HORTON INC (51%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); DHI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



145 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Executive Is Leaving CNBC News

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
The senior news executive at CNBC said Tuesday that he would leave the job next month, in the midst of one of the biggest stories in the business channel's history. 
 Jonathan Wald, the senior vice president for business news, said he could not reach agreement on a new contract and would leave at the end of March. 
 Since being appointed to the job three years ago, Mr. Wald, who runs CNBC's day-to-day news operations from an office overlooking the newsroom in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., has helped to revitalize the network's news-gathering efforts. 
 CNBC attracted record ratings last year as the nation's attention turned to the economy. CNBC, the dominant business channel and a mainstay in the offices of business leaders, also acts as the financial news bureau for NBC News and MSNBC, units of NBC Universal, which is owned by General Electric.
 As CNBC covered the collapse of investment banks and the infusions of federal money into the banking system last fall, the network received the highest ratings in its 20-year history. 
 In January the network averaged 281,000 viewers at any given time, down 4 percent from December, but up 3 percent from January 2008.
 ''I'm confident CNBC will keep growing,'' Mr. Wald, 43, said in a telephone interview Tuesday. Asked about his future, he said, ''Hopefully I'll have the opportunity to keep growing as well.'' 
 Mr. Wald was believed to be a leading contender to succeed Mark Hoffman, the network's president.
 Mr. Wald's tenure at CNBC, first as a consultant and eventually as an executive, was a second act within NBC, years after he left the ''Today'' show's top production job because of disputes with the morning show's co-hosts. 
 CNBC did not name a successor to Mr. Wald on Tuesday. He is not the only business news executive to depart recently as TV coverage focuses on the recession. John Meehan, the managing editor of Bloomberg Television, left the channel last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



146 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: A Push in Europe to Oversee Derivatives Trading

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
In an effort to tighten oversight of the financial markets, a top European official called on Tuesday for binding rules on the trading of certain instruments as well as requirements that such transactions be settled through an organization based in Europe. 
 Charlie McCreevy, the European commissioner for the internal market, said that the legislation was needed because important players in the financial services industry had pulled out of an agreement to produce a workable timetable for oversight by the end of 2008. 
 ''Now a regulatory approach is necessary,'' Mr. McCreevy told members of the European Parliament in Strasbourg.
 The rules would affect trading in credit derivatives, which offer insurance against securities for lenders worried about a borrower's ability to pay them back. 
 The trades, which are unregulated, played a role in the credit crisis that brought down Lehman Brothers and forced a government bailout of the insurance giant American International Group as well as the sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America.
 Many of the trades take place between banks rather than on formal exchanges, and regulators are concerned that there is no oversight or way to monitor where risks could be developing.
 European officials declined to identify which industry players pulled out of the agreement. But one group, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, has lobbied strongly for a single global clearinghouse to settle derivative trades. It says that the establishment of regional houses would be more costly and create other risks. 
 On Tuesday, Eraj Shirvani, the chairman of derivatives group and the head of European credit at Credit Suisse, said the association favored ''global dialogue with all concerned regulators as a matter or priority.''
 Guido Ravoet, the secretary general of the European Banking Federation, which represents national banking associations in Europe with member banks that buy and sell derivatives, said in a statement that he favored creating an oversight system based in Europe.
 A European Commission official said Mr. McCreevy was not taking a prescriptive approach to how many clearinghouses were needed. Instead, the official said, Mr. McCreevy was seeking to ensure oversight of credit derivatives markets was put in place as quickly as possible.
 ''The bone of contention here is that the biggest part of the market is in the United States, and the Europeans are saying that the clearinghouse must be based in Europe,'' said Karel Lannoo, the chief executive of the Center for European Policy studies, a research organization in Brussels.
 Mr. Lannoo said costs probably would increase if there were multiple clearinghouses. On the other hand, he said, it could make more sense to have more than one clearinghouse to avoid a complete breakdown in trading in case of one of them failed, perhaps as a result of a terrorist attack.
 The most probable outcome, he said, was that at least two clearinghouses would be established, one in Europe and another in the United States.
 ''It's the mood of the times,'' Mr. Lannoo said. ''We are drifting apart more than we are coming together when it comes to financial regulation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



147 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: A Vital Boost for Education

 BODY:
The stimulus measure being debated in Congress contains a vital $140 billion education package that would more than double the Education Department's discretionary budget and give the federal government unprecedented leverage over a school-reform effort that has been controlled primarily by the states. Congress has to make sure, however, that the spending does not actually undermine reform. The money needs to be targeted in a way that forces the states to adopt reforms required under the No Child Left Behind Act of 2002. 
 For that to happen, Congress would need to embrace the stronger House measure, which was framed with an eye toward forcing the states to end the shameful practice of shunting the least qualified teachers into schools that serve the neediest students. 
 Beyond that, Arne Duncan, the education secretary, has a burgeoning discretionary budget that can be used to reward those states that embrace reform and prod those states that continue to lag. Mr. Duncan's main goal should be to replace a wildly uneven patchwork of standards with a coherent system of national standards and tests that would allow parents to know, at last, how their schools compare with schools elsewhere in the country.
 Both bills in the House and Senate include a $79 billion ''stabilization'' fund that is supposed to help the states avoid financing cuts and layoffs in education. Both allow for renovation aid for crumbling schools, more spending under Title I, which gives help to disadvantaged children, as well as under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, which is aimed at disabled children.
 The purpose of the measures is to protect schools from damaging cuts and layoffs while preserving the momentum toward reform. But that won't happen if the states adopt the familiar strategy of cutting their own contributions to education -- and shifting the money to other uses -- while using federal dollars to plug the hole. That could result in a decline in total financing for education despite the mammoth federal expenditure. Worse still, money that moves from the education fund to say, road building, is often lost to the schools forever. 
 Both bills require that the states that access the stabilization money maintain education finances at sensible, specified levels. The Senate opens the door for trouble by allowing the secretary of education to waive the requirement. The House bill wisely does not open such a loophole in the maintenance-of-effort requirement. 
 The Bush administration failed to enforce a crucial provision of No Child Left Behind that requires states to finally give poor and minority schools a fair share of experienced, qualified teachers. The House version of the stimulus bill requires states that get the new money to comply with the law. If the Senate fails to embrace this provision, it would be selling out impoverished children. 
 The House bill also contains crucial funds for performance-based pay for teachers and higher quality tests and for data systems that will, with luck, give us an accurate view of how students, schools, districts and states are actually doing.
 Congress is doing the right thing by helping the states stave off layoffs and other problems. But the stimulus will fail Americans in crucial ways if Congress squanders the opportunity to push the country's schools toward long-overdue reform and allows the education money to be turned into more pork-barrel spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); US INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT (70%); MERIT PAY (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (69%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



148 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: City to Question Bus Companies in Fraud Case

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
The city's Education Department plans to review whether nine school bus companies that transport a fifth of the New York City's public school students are fit to do business with the city after allegations that they paid bribes to department inspectors, in some cases to allow overbilling of the department. 
 Federal prosecutors said in court papers that the companies, which collected $185 million from the city in the last fiscal year, paid the bribes for preferential treatment like advance notice of inspections.
 The companies were named in court papers filed last fall in connection with the indictment last spring of four current or former city bus inspectors on bribery and extortion charges. The companies have not been criminally charged, and the investigation by the United States attorney's office in Manhattan is continuing. 
 School officials initially asked the companies to address the bribery allegations last month, after being asked about the status of their city contracts by The New York Times. But the city later held off requiring the companies to answer the questions at the request of federal prosecutors. The review will begin when the federal investigation is complete, said Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Education Department.
 ''We will determine what actions are appropriate, pending the outcome of the investigation,'' she said. 
 The city generally avoids doing business with companies that have had a documented role in defrauding it. At the same time, any adjustment to the school transportation network can be fraught with peril, as evidenced by the uproar in 2007 when the city revised the bus routes, causing some confusion and drawing waves of complaints from parents.
 A spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment. The four inspectors are scheduled to stand trial this month. Eight of the nine companies either declined to comment or did not return phone calls made to their offices. Sid Davidoff, a lawyer for the ninth, the Logan Bus Company, said that the company was cooperating with the federal investigation, but could not comment specifically on the bribery allegations. 
 In court papers, prosecutors describe the companies as co-conspirators. The United States attorney's office has declined to clarify whether the government views any of the companies as victims as well because of some perception they had no recourse but to make the payments. 
 Bus inspectors check vehicles for safety violations and make sure the buses actually travel the routes that inspectors assign to them. The indictment says that, among other things, the companies that paid bribes were falsely recorded as having made trips outside the times specified in their contracts, for which they were awarded extra pay.
 Prosecutors have not said what any fraud may have cost the city.
 In addition to addressing the bribery accusations, school officials will have to review filings that each of the companies made with the city in which their executives provided sworn affidavits attesting that their conduct was lawful and ethical. In the sworn disclosure statements, the executives said they had not paid a public servant in an illegal attempt to gain influence, records show.
 ''Anybody who fails to fill out one of those integrity questionnaires accurately will often times find themselves barred or disqualified,'' said Thomas D. Thacher, a former assistant Manhattan district attorney and inspector general for the city's School Construction Authority from 1990 to 1996. ''It's a very serious offense.''
 The nine companies named in the court papers are Rainbow Transit, Jofaz Transportation, Logan Bus, Mar-Can Transportation, the Mini Bus Service Corporation, N.Q.T. Bus, Hoyt Transportation, United Tom Tom Transportation and Careful Bus.
 Several of the companies share either executives, office space, equipment or other resources with other school bus companies doing business with New York City, records show, although they often have different owners. For example, the presidents of four of the bus companies said to have paid bribes were also listed as the presidents of seven other bus companies with city contracts, though those companies were not named in the court papers. 
 The Education Department paid all of its school bus companies about $880 million in the 2008 fiscal year, Ms. Feinberg, the department spokeswoman, said.
 In court filings in a separate case, federal investigators have said they believe that organized crime retains influence in the New York City school bus market. But they did not specify how that influence is felt except for identifying Salvatore Battaglia, the former head of the school bus drivers' union, as an organized crime associate.
 In that case, Mr. Battaglia pleaded guilty to extortion and is serving a 57-month prison sentence.
 Were the city to cancel some its contracts, school bus transportation experts said they did not believe the city would face insurmountable problems in arranging for new contractors to enter the market, or for existing vendors to pick up the routes.
 One former senior school official described the task of replacing several or more bus companies as formidable, but said it might reduce costs and increase the system's efficiency. ''I don't see it as impossible, especially in this economy,'' said the former official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because his current employer had not approved the interview. 
 Kyle E. Martin, co-owner of the TransPar Group, which supervises the costs and performance of Chicago's school bus contractors, said, ''Our experience is that good reliable operators can take on more business over time, even in tough, complicated urban situations.''
 In 1996, he said, Chicago paid 50 bus companies to operate about 2,000 buses each school day. Through efficient management, Mr. Martin said, Chicago now contracts only about 25 companies operating 1,500 buses.
 In the Battaglia case, federal investigators said that the owners of four bus companies with city contracts had acknowledged that they had made payments to him over the years.
 These companies had also submitted sworn affidavits, included in contract disclosure forms, in which they said they had not paid any labor official ''with intent to influence'' any decisions or actions. But the companies have not been charged with any crime and prosecutors described the owners in court as victims of an extortion plot who had made the payments, not to secure a benefit, but out of fear for their safety and damage to their companies.
 Three of the companies were identified in a plea hearing last year as the Atlantic Express Transportation Corporation, Safe Coach and Rainbow Transit. The fourth company was not mentioned during the hearing.
 Peter R. Silverman, a lawyer for Atlantic Express, said its owner, Domenic Gatto, had never been accused of wrongdoing and that his disclosure statements, included in city contract forms known as Vendex, accurately denied that he ever made improper payments to influence a union official. 
 ''Mr. Gatto was a victim of extortion,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''The answers to the Vendex questions were and remain accurate.''
 The owners of Safe Coach and Rainbow did not respond to telephone and e-mail messages. 
 Though Mr. Battaglia ultimately pleaded guilty to extortion, his lawyer, Joseph Benfante, argued in court that the bus company owners were not true victims and had not paid Mr. Battaglia out of fear for themselves or their businesses. 
 ''They were benefiting tremendously financially from Day 1, before Sal Battaglia,'' Mr. Benfante said in an interview last week. ''They had an ongoing methodology between the companies themselves to restrain competition, many times at the expense of the employees.''
 Ms. Feinberg, of the Education Department, would not comment on whether city officials specifically planned to review the accuracy of the sworn disclosure statements that the bus companies had filed. She said only that the United States attorney's office had asked the department to refrain from questioning any of the companies, either the nine companies identified in the inspectors' case or any others, until the investigation was over.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rainbow Transit, which has a contract to transport New York's public school students, is one of nine bus companies accused of paying bribes to city inspectors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (90%); BRIBERY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LAWYERS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); EXTORTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



149 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Activity Stirs Fears of a Missile Test

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea has been moving what appear to be components of a long-range missile to a launching site, a South Korean official and news reports said Tuesday, raising fears that it might test-fire a missile. 
 The North Korean move, first reported by the South Korean news agency Yonhap and the Japanese newspaper Sankei Shimbun, came amid concern among political analysts in Seoul, South Korea's capital, that the North might also try some sort of military provocation to help make its nuclear program a foreign policy priority for the Obama administration. 
 North Korea has launched missiles in the past to win political or economic concessions. In recent weeks, it has said that its military had assumed an ''all-out confrontational posture'' and that it had scrapped all nonaggression pacts with South Korea. 
 In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Robert A. Wood, said he could not comment on the reports, calling them ''an intelligence matter.'' 
 But he added: ''North Korea's missile activities and missile programs are of concern to the region. A ballistic missile launch by North Korea would be unhelpful and, frankly, provocative.''
 Recent spy satellite images showed a train carrying a long, cylindrical object, believed to be a missile, heading to a new launching site on North Korea's western coast, Yonhap reported, quoting an unidentified government official. But in another dispatch late Tuesday, Yonhap said that intelligence officials were still tracking the train and that there was a possibility that the North would take it to another launching site. 
 A South Korean government official reached Tuesday confirmed the train's movement, as cited by Yonhap. ''We detected such a movement in the last week of January,'' the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue with reporters.
 The object is believed to be a Taepodong-2 missile, Yonhap said. The missile is designed to fly at least 4,200 miles, far enough to reach North America, and carry a payload of 1,400 to 2,200 pounds, according to the South Korean Defense Ministry. 
 North Korea test-fired the missile in July 2006. But it was considered a failure, with its rocket fizzling out shortly after it blasted off. 
 While not ruling out the possibility of a missile test, analysts and officials in Seoul said that the North often ''puts on a show'' at its military facilities to stir up uncertainty among its neighbors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); POLITICS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); ESPIONAGE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



150 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Kyrgyzstan Says It Will Close U.S. Base

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
In Moscow to seek financial support, the president of Kyrgyzstan, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, on Tuesday announced that a decision to close a U.S. air base in his country -- a decision that will seriously hamper U.S. efforts in Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Bakiyev arrived in Moscow under pressure to ease economic troubles in Kyrgyzstan, which is heavily in debt to Russia and dependent on remittances from migrant workers. President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Russia would extend a $2 billion loan and $150 million in aid to Kyrgyzstan, which Mr. Bakiyev hailed as ''serious and important support.'' 
At a press conference, Mr. Bakiyev said the U.S. had not paid Kyrgyzstan enough in return for the use of the base and expressed anger over a 2006 case in which an American serviceman shot and killed a Kyrgyz truck driver on the base. The American left the country, against official protest.
 ''How can we speak of independence and sovereignty if we cannot enforce the law on the territory of our own country?'' he said, at a press conference. ''All this has given rise to a negative attitude to the base in Manas. And that is why the government has made such a decision.'' 
 Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, on Tuesday called Manas ''a hugely important'' airbase for the United States. The base has served as an air hub and refueling and transit point for NATO efforts in Afghanistan, and U.S. officials have several times intervened when Kyrgyz officials considered shutting it. 
 During negotiations this summer, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the U.S. would pay more than $150 million in assistance and compensation for the base. At the time, a government statement said the United States had contributed more than $850 million to support democracy, economic development, aid projects and security in the Kyrgyz Republic since its independence from the Soviet Union. 
 NATO's special representative to the area, Robert Simmons, spent Monday and Tuesday meeting with officials in Bishkek, telling reporters the site was ''vital.''
 At the press conference, Mr. Bakiyev said Washington had ignored requests for more money.
 ''Eight years have passed,'' he said. ''We have repeatedly raised with the United States the matter of economic compensation for the existence of the base in Kyrgyzstan, but we have not been understood.'' 
 The base was opened in 2001 with Moscow's blessing, but Russian leaders were increasingly irritated by the continuing presence of American troops there. It was not clear whether Russian officials had pressed Bishkek to end the agreement.
 To Russians, the longstanding U.S. presence at Manas suggested ambitions ''to strengthen its position in this region'' against Moscow's and Beijing's interests, said Andronik Migranyan, an analyst at the Institute of Democracy and Cooperation, a Russian think-tank based in New York.
 ''The American government is involved in many things that Russia does not like, and this is something of a bargaining chip,'' he said. 
 Mr. Migranyan said friction over the air base will become ''become a serious impediment to Russian-American relations'' if Mr. Obama follows through on his plans to beef up the U.S. presence in Afghanistan. He added, however, that there was likely room to negotiate. 
 ''If president Obama halts the construction of elements of a missile defense system in the Czech Republic and Poland; if there are broader discussions on global security, if negotiations start on START I; and many other issues, then Russia will support the United States in Afghanistan,'' he said. 
 Kyrgyzstan's close relations with the United States have long unsettled Russia and China, which both have military interests in the region. 
 In 2005, the country appeared to move further into Washington's orbit after a popular uprising, supported in part by the United States, toppled the corrupt and increasingly authoritarian government of Askar A. Akayev, sending the president fleeing across the border. The bloodless coup was part of a wave of popular revolts, known as colored revolutions, that remain a source of anger and suspicion among Russian officials, who consider them Washington-hatched schemes meant to undermine Russia's influence in the region.
 Similar uprisings in Georgia and Ukraine ushered in governments that quickly sought to shut out Moscow's influence in favor of stronger ties with the West. Kyrgyzstan, however, has often sought to strike a balance among Washington, Moscow and Beijing. The government has allowed Russia to maintain a military base on Kyrgyz soil and is a member, along with China, Russia and three other Central Asian countries, of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a security alliance. 
 Upon his election in 2005, Mr. Bakiyev vowed to pursue an independent foreign policy, saying that Kyrgyzstan would not be ''a place for the fulfillment of someone else's geopolitical interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KYRGYZSTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



151 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Head's Firm Loses Its Queens Shopping Mall

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has been struggling with the bad economy, and now its chairman, H. Dale Hemmerdinger, is struggling, too. 
 Lenders are foreclosing on a Queens shopping mall developed and owned by his company, Atco Properties and Management, Mr. Hemmerdinger said on Tuesday. 
 ''The world is shrinking in terms of retail sales, and we got caught in the shrinking,'' he said.
 He declined to say how much his company had invested in the property, the Shops at Atlas Park, which has a $128 million mortgage with two French banks, Calyon and Societe Generale. He said the two banks were in the process of taking over the property, which is in the Glendale neighborhood.
 Representatives for the two banks declined to comment on Tuesday. 
 Damon Hemmerdinger, Mr. Hemmerdinger's son, recently notified the merchants at the mall by letter that the company would stop managing it by mid-February. The letter, reported by Crain's New York Business on Monday, said the banks would choose the new management. 
 In dropping its interest in the mall, the company is also giving up a large portion of a real estate property that the family has owned since the 1920s. The property was managed as an industrial park for many years, but when manufacturing declined, the family decided to build the shopping mall.
 Now that retail sales are declining, H. Dale Hemmerdinger said, the company decided that it could no longer afford to keep up payments on the loan. 
 ''It's the correct business decision for us,'' he said. 
 According to its Web site, Atco also has several office and residential buildings in Manhattan. They include an office building at 555 Fifth Avenue, at 46th Street, and a luxury apartment building at 40 Central Park South. ''We're still in business,'' Mr. Hemmerdinger said. 
 Mr. Hemmerdinger, Atco's president, became chairman of the transportation authority in late 2007, as it was grappling with a rapidly worsening financial outlook. In recent months he has led appeals to state lawmakers in Albany to help the authority with an infusion of cash to head off proposed fare increases and service cuts.
 David A. Rosenberg, an executive vice president of Robert K. Futterman, a retail leasing firm, said the mall was hurt by competition from an expanded Queens Center Mall and from the established shopping corridor on Austin Street in Forest Hills. 
 When Atco opened the mall in 2006, it intended it to be something other than a typical indoor mall. It called it a ''lifestyle center,'' and arranged the shops around a central area, which it called a ''green.'' 
 It was not considered easily accessible, and there was no subway station nearby. 
 Last year, the authority extended the route of the Q45 bus to reach the mall, drawing criticism because of Mr. Hemmerdinger's ties. The authority said at the time that Mr. Hemmerdinger had not influenced the route change. 
 At the mall on Tuesday, there was uncertainty, and merchants said they had received little information about what to expect. 
 ''People are not sure,'' said Joseph A. Faccibene, an owner of Shiro of Japan, a restaurant in the mall. ''Change always brings something unknown. It could also change for the positive.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (61%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (61%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (71%); ATCO PROPERTIES & MANAGEMENT INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



152 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: WNET News Program Gains a Foothold but Draws Internal Complaints

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
The creators of WNET.org's four-month-old ''Worldfocus'' see it as a model for low-cost news programming on public television. But its first-year budget of $8 million is causing dissent at the company, the parent of WNET/Channel 13 and WLIW/Channel 21 in New York, and is being blamed for deep layoffs at the stations.
 The program, which uses inexpensive digital technology and worldwide partnerships, has won praise for its international coverage. Recent ''Worldfocus'' broadcasts that included Gaza war coverage, with reports from Al Jazeera English, one of the program's partners, brought an increase in viewers.
 But the nationally distributed program isn't as popular internally. Two weeks ago the stations laid off 14 percent of their combined staff, or about 80 people, part of an effort to cut WNET.org's $186 million annual budget by 8 percent, about $15 million. Some employees, none of whom would speak publicly for fear of angering management, blame the spending on ''Worldfocus'' for the cuts. 
 Among those laid off were many in WNET's local programming department, including its director, John DeNatale. The unit's half-hour ''New York Voices,'' which had been seen only intermittently in recent months, was officially canceled. 
 ''Worldfocus'' is a major project for Neal Shapiro, a former president of NBC News who took over as chief executive of WNET.org (formerly known as Educational Broadcasting Corporation) one year ago and has been moving quickly to revamp the channels. In an interview Mr. Shapiro said that the layoffs were unrelated to ''Worldfocus.'' 
 ''Nobody wants to be laid off, and everybody looks for reasons why,'' he said. ''But the fact is, there are huge financial pressures facing this place.'' He cited declining revenue from corporate underwriting, individual pledges, foundation grants and endowment earnings. Many of the cuts were in back-office functions, he said, adding that the reorganization would make the stations more efficient.
 Local programming isn't going away, he said. Some employees who worked on local arts coverage have been reassigned to WNET's year-old ''SundayArts'' program. WNET has also just begun the weekly ''It's the Economy, NY,'' with Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times as host. 
 ''Worldfocus'' has been a point of internal contention since its premiere in October. Mr. Shapiro conceived the program after a disagreement with the BBC, the British broadcaster, over its newscast, which WLIW had distributed nationally for a decade. When the two sides couldn't reach a new distribution deal, WNET and WLIW decided to produce ''Worldfocus,'' and the BBC lined up a new distributor. 
 Many public stations, but not WLIW or WNET, now carry both programs. The BBC program remains more widely available and has higher ratings nationally, but ''Worldfocus'' is continuing to add stations, most recently in St. Louis and Houston.
 Mr. Shapiro defended the decision to start a competing program. The two have different formats, he said, adding that ''it's good for public television to have a show that belongs to public television.''
 In an unusual departure, the seed money for ''Worldfocus'' came from WNET.org's operating budget. Traditionally, public television stations raise part of the necessary money for a program before starting production. 
 Mr. Shapiro said he didn't buy that approach. ''Public television would not be anywhere if every time we had an idea, we said, 'Gosh it's going to be very hard to raise money, let's not do it,' '' he said. ''Are we taking a chance? Absolutely; that's what innovation is about.''
 Last week the Peter G. Peterson Foundation provided the program's first outside financing, a $1 million one-year grant. That led to a $1 million matching grant from Rosalind P. Walter, a WNET trustee, and two other unnamed people gave a total of $500,000, bringing the program to a self-sustaining $2.5 million for its first months, Mr. Shapiro said. 
 Praising ''Worldfocus'' as a ''very high-quality program,'' David M. Walker, the president and chief executive of the Peterson foundation, said the organization believed ''in today's interconnected world that having a greater focus on the world around us and where we stand in the world overall is very important.''
 In exchange for the grant, Mr. Walker said, the foundation expected ''Worldfocus'' to produce reports examining how other countries have dealt with the challenges facing the United States, like health care and Social Security reform. ''Worldfocus,'' he said, will have ''total control over the content.''
 Even before the grant, ''Worldfocus'' had reported on those topics; a series on universal health care in Brazil, Singapore and Canada was shown last week. 
 To report such substantial stories every evening, the program turns to a number of former network correspondents, including Lynn Sherr, Dave Marash and Mark Litke, previously of ABC News, and Edie Magnus, formerly of ''Dateline NBC.''
 The show includes interviews by the anchor, Martin Savidge, formerly of CNN and NBC News, and reports from worldwide news partners, including A24, from Africa, and Al Jazeera. Video is sent via Internet, not satellite, to save money, and the entire show is assembled in a computer so that studio cost is minimal, producers said. 
 One partner for the program is GlobalPost, a Boston-based Web site (globalpost.com) also focused on international news. Its contributors are being given $250 Flip camcorders to shoot video to send to ''Worldfocus.'' ''It's a great, very simple idea,'' said Charles Sennott, a founder of GlobalPost. 
 Some advocates of increased international news coverage have questioned the program's production values. ''I laud the concept; we've been agitating for more global coverage for 20 years,'' said Rory O'Connor, the president of the production company Globalvision. ''But I was taken aback at what seemed to be an antiquated look and antiquated production values.'' He said the style was ''perilously close to radio on television.'' 
 Marc Rosenwasser, the program's executive producer, said that viewers were more interested in content than in style. ''I'm not dismissing production values, but fundamentally our role is to provide information to people,'' he said. In a YouTube age, he added, some viewers even believe that ''if it's too manicured, it's not real.''
 The audience for ''Worldfocus'' has been growing but remains small. In January it had about 252,000 nightly viewers on average in the nation's 30 largest markets, according to WNET.org. The program can also be seen at worldfocus.org. 
 Locally ''Worldfocus'' will get much more visibility in the spring, when its studio moves from West 33rd Street to Lincoln Center, where WNET has signed a 15-year lease for a street-side studio at Broadway and West 66th Street. Mr. Savidge will record his interviews there, and the studio will also be home to ''SundayArts''; a Saturday film program, ''Reel 13''; and the stations' on-air pledge drives.
 The studio's rent of just under $1 million a year is another cost that Mr. Shapiro's critics have complained about. But Mr. Shapiro has the support of WNET.org's board chairman, James S. Tisch, the chief executive of Loews Corporation. 
 ''I think that will be a game changer for 13,'' Mr. Tisch said of the new site in an interview. ''It will give it presence, it will pair it with Lincoln Center,and it will free up studio space on 33rd Street that can be used for other reasons.''
 Mr. Shapiro added, ''I think we're going to look back on the new studio and say it's the best investment we ever made.''
 ''We face huge financial pressures,'' he said. ''But the way to get out of these pressures is through innovation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The newsroom of ''Worldfocus,'' a program begun in October by Neal Shapiro of WNET.org, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING CORP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



153 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: New Face of G.O.P. Brings a Brash Style

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The election last week of Michael Steele to be chairman of the Republican National Committee drew considerable notice, not surprisingly: he is the first African-American to hold that position in the party's 155-year history. 
 Yet there are other ways that the selection of Mr. Steele, a former lieutenant governor from Maryland who lost a bid for the Senate in 2006, represents a break from the Republican past. And those could prove to be more significant than race, as the Republicans debate in the weeks ahead how much ''opposition'' they should put in the phrase ''loyal opposition.'' They face a president who is extraordinarily popular and a nation that appears weary of partisan politics as it confronts an economic crisis. 
 With Mr. Steele, the Republican Party has turned to someone who is markedly different from his recent predecessors in style and temperament. He is brash and brawny, takes chances that occasionally get him in trouble, and clearly relishes the idea of being portrayed as the fighting counterpoint to President Obama and the Democratic Party. This is not someone who is going to be spending a lot of time talking about microtargeting and the other mechanical aspects of politics. 
 The new face of the Republican Party does not seem to share the hunger for bipartisanship that Mr. Obama has made one of the stylistic touchstones of his first weeks in office. That became clear from the moment Mr. Steele took the job on Friday, as he all but invited the president of the United States to join him in the boxing ring.
 ''It's going to be an honor to spar with him,'' he said, before throwing down the gauntlet to Mr. Obama with a quotation from, apparently, an in-your-face late-1980's rap song by Kool Moe Dee: ''How ya like me now?'' (Confession: A certain reporter initially suggested that Mr. Steele was invoking the country star Toby Keith, a reference that was convincingly challenged in a barrage of e-mail messages from readers.)
 The stylistic and philosophical implications of the choice became even clearer when Mr. Steele appeared before House Republicans at a retreat on Saturday. Mr. Steele celebrated their refusal to give Mr. Obama a single vote for his economic recovery plan -- albeit in language that was perhaps a tad eyebrow-raising, given the soberness of the country's economic problems and the concern of some Republicans that the party was skating on thin ice.
 ''The goose egg you laid on the president's desk was just beautiful,'' he said. 
 (It is difficult to imagine Ken Mehlman, the buttoned-down lawyer who led the party during much happier days from 2005 to 2007, saying anything quite that colorful.)
 This was the same Mr. Steele who, if he didn't invent what became the signature chant of the Republican presidential campaign, certainly popularized it when he spoke at the Republican National Convention in Minnesota. ''Drill, baby, drill,'' he said, grinning broadly as the crowd picked up the slogan and repeated it for nearly 30 seconds.
 This free-spirited way has gotten him in trouble. He ruffled Republican feathers in 2006 when he had a lunch with reporters at a fancy Washington D.C. restaurant in which he systematically disparaged President George W. Bush and his administration. The single condition he imposed on reporters at the lunch was that his remarks be attributed only to a ''Republican Senate candidate'' -- though within 12 hours the world knew which Republican Senate candidate was trash-talking his president.
 For a party as dispirited as his, Mr. Steele is certainly something of a tonic. The enthusiastic reception that greeted his elbows-out acceptance speech was a marked contrast to days of meetings that until that point had bordered between morose and laconic. 
 Yet while there are benefits to having a party leader who is given to a bit of showmanship -- he will have little trouble getting bookings on the Sunday talk shows -- there are arguably some risks here. When he spoke to Republicans on Saturday, he did something that some of his more cautious predecessors might have avoided: He set down out three markers to judge him by this year.
 His three big targets, he announced, were the upstate New York Congressional district left vacant when Representative Kristen Gillibrand was tapped to replace Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the gubernatorial races in Virginia and New Jersey. ''I'm in the business of winning elections,'' he said. 
 That New York Congressional seat, a relatively conservative district that had only recently gone Democratic, seems like a prime target for the Republican Party. Virginia and New Jersey are more problematic, and Mr. Steele could find himself wishing he had not bet on a trifecta come November.
 Most significant, though, is where Mr. Steele placed himself in the debate about how aggressively the Republicans should resist Mr. Obama and his financial stimulus plan. Mr. Obama's aides, who have conspicuously resisted getting drawn into the fight Mr. Steele is trying to pick, described the remarks as an attempt by Mr. Steele -- who is viewed by some conservatives as not being conservative enough -- to shore up his standing with his base.
 Mr. Steele is taking over his party at what could prove to be an historically pivotal moment. A Gallup Poll released last week found that 36 percent of respondents identified themselves as Democrats, compared with 28 percent who said they were Republicans. That is the largest lead Democrats have enjoyed in that poll since 1983. And Mr. Obama's popularity cuts across party lines.
 ''The American people are patient to turn this thing around,'' said David Plouffe, who was Mr. Obama's campaign manager. ''What they are not patient for is more of the same Washington politics. The real danger here -- particularly for those who supported the economic policies responsible for getting us here -- is to not be part of doing all you can to dig this country out of this economic hole. You seem to be sailing directly into the headwinds of where the American people are.''
 If the economic plan passes Congress without significant Republican support and then does little to help the economy over the next two years, Mr. Steele's combative style could help conservatives build a case for a return to power. If the economic plan pays off, though, many Democrats suggest that he may find himself sharing blame for a miscalculation that could set the Republican Party back for a long while to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BOXING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); COUNTRY MUSIC (67%); RAP MUSIC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOBY KEITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



154 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Curb Executive Pay for Bailout Recipients

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is expected to impose a cap of $500,000 on the compensation of top executives at companies that receive large amounts of federal bailout money, according to people familiar with the plan.
 Under new rules to be announced by the Treasury Department as early as Wednesday, executives would also be prohibited from receiving any bonuses above their base pay, except for normal stock dividends.
The new rules would be far tougher than any restrictions imposed during the Bush administration, and they could force executives in the months ahead to accept deep reductions in their current pay. 
 Executives at companies that have already received money from Treasury Department would not have to make any changes. But analysts and administration officials are bracing for a huge wave of new losses, largely because of the deepening recession, and many companies that have already received federal aid may be seeking more.
 Crucial details remained unclear on Tuesday night, including whether the restrictions would apply to all companies that receive money under the so-called Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, or whether they would apply only to the ''exceptional'' companies that were being rescued from collapse.
 Under the Treasury's $700 billion rescue program, most companies that have received money so far have been considered ''healthy'' rather than on the brink of collapse.
 But five of the biggest companies that got federal aid Citigroup, Bank of America and American International Group, General Motors and Chrysler -- were all facing acute problems. And top executives at those companies made far more than $500,000 annually in recent years.
 Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, made more than $20 million in 2007. Of that, $5.75 million was in salary and bonuses.
 Vikram Pandit, who became chief executive of Citigroup in December of 2007 and previously held other senior positions at the bank, made $3.1 million.
 Richard Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, made $14.4 million, much of it in stock, options and other non-cash benefits. He 
 earned a $1.6 million annual salary.
 ''That is pretty draconian -- $500,000 is not a lot of money, particularly if there is no bonus,'' said James F. Reda, founder and managing director of James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation consulting firm. ''And you know these companies that are in trouble are not going to pay much of an annual dividend.''
 Mr. Reda said only a handful of big companies pay chief executives and other senior executives $500,000 or less in total compensation. He said such limits will make it hard for the companies to recruit and keep executives, since they could earn more money at other firms.
 ''It would be really tough to get people to staff'' companies that are forced to impose these limits, he said. ''I don't think this will work.''
 President Obama last week branded Wall Street bankers ''shameful'' for giving themselves nearly $20 billion in bonuses as the economy was deteriorating and the government was spending billions to bail out some of the nation's most prominent financial institutions. 
 ''There will be time for them to make profits, and there will be time for them to get bonuses,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Now's not that time.''
 Mr. Obama's new rules are coming just as he is expected to ask for additional money, beyond the $700 billion already authorized, to prop up the financial system, even as he pushes Congress to move quickly on a separate economic stimulus package that could cost taxpayers as much as $900 billion. 
 The banks that have received bailout funds already are subject to limits on compensation , but they are not considered strict. The top five executives at banks that get an equity infusion from the government are restricted from offering golden parachutes, as rich severance packages are called, and any compensation above $500,000 is not tax deductible to the company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); DIVIDENDS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICK WAGONER (50%); KENNETH D LEWIS (50%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



155 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Amid Fury, U.S. Is Set to Curb Executives' Pay After Bailouts

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and VIKAS BAJAJ; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is expected to impose a cap of $500,000 for top executives at companies that receive large amounts of bailout money, according to people familiar with the plan.
 Executives would also be prohibited from receiving any bonuses above their base pay, except for normal stock dividends. 
 President Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner plan to announce the executive compensation plan on Wednesday morning at the White House. 
 The new rules would be far tougher than any restrictions imposed during the Bush administration, and they could force executives to accept deep reductions in their current pay. They come amid rising public fury about huge pay packages for executives at financial companies being propped up by federal tax dollars.
 Executives at companies that have already received money from the Treasury Department would not have to make any changes. But analysts and administration officials are bracing for a huge wave of new losses, largely because of the deepening recession, and many companies that have already received federal money may well be coming back.
 Crucial details remained unclear on Tuesday night, including whether the restrictions would apply to all companies that receive money under the so-called Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, or whether they would apply only to the ''exceptional'' companies that were being rescued from collapse.
 Under the Treasury's $700 billion rescue program, most companies that have received money so far have been considered ''healthy'' rather than on the brink of collapse.
 But five of the biggest companies to get help -- Citigroup, Bank of America and the American International Group, General Motors and Chrysler -- were all facing acute problems. And top executives at those companies made far more than $500,000 in recent years.
 Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, took home more than $20 million in 2007. Of that, $5.75 million was in salary and bonuses.
 Vikram Pandit, who became chief executive of Citigroup in December of 2007 and previously held other senior positions at the bank, made $3.1 million.
 Richard Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, made $14.4 million, much of it in stock, options and other non-cash benefits. He earned a $1.6 million salary.
 ''That is pretty draconian -- $500,000 is not a lot of money, particularly if there is no bonus,'' said James F. Reda, founder and managing director of James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation consulting firm. ''And you know these companies that are in trouble are not going to pay much of an annual dividend.''
 Mr. Reda said only a handful of big companies pay chief executives and other senior executives $500,000 or less in total compensation. He said such limits will make it hard for the companies to recruit and keep executives, most of whom could earn more money at other firms.
 ''It would be really tough to get people to staff'' companies that are forced to impose these limits, he said. ''I don't think this will work.''
 President Obama last week branded Wall Street bankers ''shameful'' for giving themselves nearly $20 billion in bonuses as the economy was deteriorating and the government was spending billions to bail out some of the nation's most prominent financial institutions. 
 ''If the taxpayers are helping you, then you have certain responsibilities to not be living high on the hog,'' Mr. Obama said Tuesday, in an interview with ''NBC Nightly News.''
 Mr. Obama's new rules are coming just as he is expected to ask for additional sums of money, beyond the $700 billion already authorized, to prop up the financial system, even as he pushes Congress to move quickly on a separate economic stimulus package that could cost taxpayers as much as $900 billion.
 If the new pay limit applies to all companies that receive Treasury money, it would be almost as tough as a $400,000 limit proposed last week by Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. 
 Senator McCaskill, reacting to reports of extravagant perks and bonuses at companies like Merrill Lynch and Citigroup, had blasted Wall Street executives as ''a bunch of idiots'' who were ''kicking sand in the face of the American taxpayer.'' 
 The banks that have received bailout funds already are subject to limits on compensation, but the Bush administration intentionally left them lax. The top five executives at banks that get an equity infusion from the government are restricted from offering golden parachutes, as rich severance packages are called, and any compensation above $500,000 is not tax deductible to the company.
 Companies that received emergency money, like Citigroup, faced somewhat tougher restrictions, including a requirement to reduce the bonus pool for the top 50 executives by 40 percent. But even those restrictions come nowhere near the $500,000 cap.
 In a letter to Congress last month, Lawrence H. Summers, director of Mr. Obama's National Economic Council, suggested that the new pay restrictions would apply to all companies that get Federal help.
 Without mentioning a particular dollar limit, Mr. Summers wrote that ''executive compensation above a specified threshold amount be paid in restricted stock or similar form that cannot be liquidated or sold until the government has been repaid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vikram Pandit of Citigroup, left, Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America, center, and Rick Wagoner of General Motors received multimillion dollar salary packages in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT TO RIGHT: CITIGROUP
REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
 STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); KENNETH D LEWIS (56%); VIKRAM PANDIT (56%); RICK WAGONER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



156 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: In Search of Another Route to Mideast Peace

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Obama's Long Shot for Peace'' (column, Feb. 1), Nicholas D. Kristof calls for an Israeli-Syrian peace deal as the ''most promising route'' to Middle East peace. But I would argue that the litmus test of any such deal should be the benefits to both countries.
 Beware of placing too much emphasis on ''peeling'' Damascus away from Iran, with the hope of weakening Hezbollah and Hamas. Or of measuring success by the reduction of violence in the area or the willingness of the Palestinians to face the inevitable and accept what Israel would offer. These expectations have tarnished many negotiations. 
 An Israeli-Syrian treaty should be reached on the mutual benefits that can be derived for the parties themselves.
 Economic and cultural exchanges would probably offer the first successes. The reduction of hostilities would ease defense concerns. With time, common interests would encompass ecological and social problems. The issues of Lebanon, the Palestinians, Iraq and Iran would require other negotiations.
 A peace treaty between Israel and Syria holds real benefits for these two countries. These outcomes should be the goal.
 Joseph Elias Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof advises the Obama administration to ''push to reduce the misery in Palestinian territories.'' 
 Hamas and jihadists elsewhere will do their best to prevent this from happening. The Arab world, despite the enormous wealth of some Arab states, has kept Palestinians in refugee camps for 60 years. They want the issue to remain an open sore.
 Hamas and other extremists have been fighting against the establishment of an independent Palestine with their lives and the lives of their children. The Hamas charter calls for the destruction of Israel. That is its priority. Independence is not acceptable if it means letting Israel exist. 
 The misery of the Palestinians, for Hamas, is a major tool in its struggle to prevent peace with Israel from ever happening.
 George Jochnowitz New York, Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Israel is once again criticized for ''killing more than 1,300 people in Gaza'' after ''shelling that had killed fewer than 30 Israelis since it began in 2001.''
 Thousands of rockets aimed at Israeli civilians have been fired since 2001. Israel has repeatedly tried the targeted responses that Nicholas D. Kristof suggests, as well as nonviolent responses like border closings. These haven't worked, because Hamas doesn't care. 
 If the rockets begin to hit Israeli towns as before, the only other choice that civilians in the target areas have is to leave, if they can. But what happens if the rockets start to reach Tel Aviv? 
 Israel's response against Hezbollah in the north, also criticized as disproportionate, actually stopped the rockets. Israel has no good choices -- only hard ones.
 Arthur L. Levy New Haven, Feb. 1, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Nicholas D. Kristof offers advice to Israel, explaining in detail what it must do and what the United States must demand of it. Where is the advice for the Palestinians? What must President Obama demand of them? 
 Mr. Kristof asserts that the bitter division between Fatah and Hamas makes a peace deal with Israel impossible now, but he does not say that the United States must demand that Hamas and Fatah reconcile. He says that Israel must open the crossings into Gaza, but he does not say that Hamas must renounce terrorism and its often-repeated goal of destroying Israel. 
 Any peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict requires some recognition that all parties to that conflict have responsibilities to fulfill. 
 Laraine Fergenson Tenafly, N.J., Feb. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 By Nicholas D. Kristof's notion of a ''proportional'' response, the United States should have stopped its attack on Japan as soon as 2,400 people were killed ''in retaliation'' for Pearl Harbor, and should have stopped attacking the Taliban as soon as 3,000 people were killed ''in retaliation'' for 9/11. 
 The problem is, the goal of these responses is not ''retaliation.'' It is the prevention of future attacks. A ''proportional'' response uses enough force to stop future attacks -- no more and no less.
 Ilya Shlyakhter Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 1, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); REFUGEES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); HEZBOLLAH (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



157 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Withdraws as Cabinet Nominee

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Tom Daschle withdrew his name on Tuesday as President Obama's nominee to lead the Health and Human Services Department, a startling decision that came only hours after the withdrawal of another candidate for a high White House office.
 Mr. Daschle withdrew a day after Mr. Obama unequivocally declared that he would stand behind him as his problems over income tax arrears were scrutinized on Capitol Hill. The nominee's tax issues had developed into a troublesome distraction for the president, who entered the White House pledging to hold his people to the highest ethical standards.
The president said he accepted Mr. Daschle's sudden withdrawal ''with sadness and regret.'' Later, in an interview on NBC's ''Nightly News With Brian Williams,'' Mr. Obama said he took responsibility for the Daschle episode. 
 ''I'm here on television saying I screwed up,'' the president told Mr. Williams. The important thing, the president went on, is not trying to be free of mistakes but ''it's owning up to them and trying to make sure you never repeat them.'' 
 Earlier Tuesday, the chief White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said Mr. Daschle had made his own decision to withdraw. ''He did not get a signal'' from the White House, Mr. Gibbs said. 
 But there was no suggestion either that President Obama had tried to persuade Mr. Daschle not to pull out, just as there was no hint that the president had tried to dissuade Nancy Killefer, his choice for chief White House performance officer, from withdrawing earlier in the day. She, too, cited tax arrears, in her case District of Columbia unemployment taxes. 
 ''They both decided that their nominations would distract,'' Mr. Gibbs said at a news briefing.
 Ms. Killefer said Tuesday morning that a debate over her confirmation would create a ''distraction'' and delay the urgent agenda facing the administration -- words similar to those used by Mr. Daschle in canceling his candidacy for the Cabinet post. (Bill Burton, a White House spokesman, said Mr. Daschle would also step down from his position of White House health-care czar, a post that did not need Senate confirmation.)
 Mr. Gibbs said the White House was already looking for replacements for Mr. Daschle and Ms. Kellefer, and that the president remained confident in the administration's process for vetting candidates. 
 Mr. Daschle's decision to step aside came as a surprise on Capitol Hill, where Democratic senators had rallied behind him after he had expressed regret over his failure to pay about $140,000 in taxes when they were due, and on Monday had vowed to press ahead. The Daschle nomination is the highest-level political casualty of the young Obama administration. 
 ''Now we must move forward,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement.
 Mr. Daschle, a former Senate Democratic leader who had been a political mentor to Mr. Obama and whose longtime aides now hold key positions in the White House, said that because of the tax issue he would not have been able to lead a reform of the nation's health care system ''with the full faith of Congress and the American people.''
 Mr. Daschle's withdrawal was announced jointly by the president and Mr. Daschle in a printed statement handed out to reporters at the White House.
 ''Tom Daschle has devoted his life to public service and health care reform, so that every American has access to health care they can afford,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I had hoped that he could bring this passion and expertise to bear to finally achieve that goal, which is so essential to the progress of our economy and the well-being of businesses and families across out nation.''
 ''Tom made a mistake, which he has openly acknowledged,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking about Mr. Daschle, who he considers a close personal friend. ''He has not excused it, nor do I. But that mistake and this decision cannot diminish the many contributions Tom has made to this country.''
 The withdrawal of Ms. Killefer was in itself a big development for the new Obama administration, which has now had tax problems arise with at least three nominees: Timothy F. Geithner was confirmed as Treasury Secretary despite the news that he had failed to pay about $34,000 in taxes from early in the decade. Each of the nominees has paid the tax arrears as they have come to light. 
 The moves came as Mr. Obama nominated Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, to serve as commerce secretary. That position, the president had hoped, would be the last appointment he would need to make to his cabinet. Advisers to the Democratic governor of New Hampshire, John Lynch, said on Tuesday that Mr. Lynch would name another Republican, Bonnie Newman, to succeed Mr. Gregg in the Senate.
 Only a day before, Mr. Daschle's nomination had seemed safe, given that the Democrats have a comfortable majority in the Senate and that President Obama and several Democratic senators had issued statements backing him. Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee, had expressed support for Mr. Daschle in advance of the committee's private meeting with him on Monday to discuss his nomination and the tax issues. Mr. Baucus, who had occasionally clashed with Mr. Daschle when the latter was the Democratic leader in the Senate, said on Tuesday that Mr. Daschle would have been ''a terrific partner'' in the campaign for health-care reform.
 ''I hope and fully expect that he will continue to play a leading and valuable role in health policy for this country,'' Mr. Baucus said in a statement.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, issued a statement calling Mr. Daschle ''a public servant of high character and deep devotion to this country'' with deep knowledge of health care issues.
 ''Tom will remain a respected voice in this important debate,'' Mr. Kennedy said.Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, told reporters he was saddened by the withdrawal of Mr. Daschle, whom he said would have been ''ideally suited'' to head the huge health agency. But Mr. Reid said he agreed that the nomination had become too much of a distraction.
 Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said in a statement that he regretted Mr. Daschle's withdrawal. ''Today is not a good day for the cause of health care reform,'' Mr. Kerry said.
 But Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, had a different perspective on Mr. Daschle. ''I think he spared the president some embarrassment,'' Mr. Ensign told reporters, adding that he did not think some of Mr. Daschle's explanations for the tax issues could ''pass the smell test.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



158 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Well, That Certainly Didn't Take Long

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 On 9/11, President Bush learned of disaster while reading ''The Pet Goat'' to grade-school kids. On Tuesday, President Obama escaped from disaster by reading ''The Moon Over Star'' to grade-school kids.
 ''We were just tired of being in the White House,'' the two-week-old president, with Michelle at his side, explained to students at a public charter school near the White House. 
 Even as he told the children his favorite superheroes were Batman and Spider-Man, his own dream of being the superhero who swoops in to swiftly save America was going SPLAT!
 It just ain't that easy.
 Unlike W. and Dick Cheney, who heroically resisted acknowledging their historically boneheaded mistakes, President Obama summoned a conga line of Anderson, Katie, Brian, Chris and Charlie to the Oval Office to do penance, over and over.
 ''I think I messed up. I screwed up,'' he confessed to Couric.
 He told the anchors that the man who helped make him president, Tom Daschle, had made ''a serious mistake'' by not paying taxes on a car and driver. (It should have been a harbinger of doom when Daschle began sporting those determined-to-be-hip round red glasses.)
 Mr. Obama admitted that ''ultimately it's important for this administration to send a message that there aren't two sets of rules. You know, one for prominent people and one for ordinary folks who have to pay their taxes.''
 It took Daschle's resignation to shake the president out of his arrogant attitude that his charmed circle doesn't have to abide by the lofty standards he lectured the rest of us about for two years.
 Before he recanted, his hand forced by a cascade of appointees who ''forgot'' to pay taxes, his reasoning was creeping perilously close to that of the outgoing leaders he denounced in his Inaugural Address: that elitist mentality of ''we know best,'' we know we're doing the ''right'' thing for the country, so we can twist the rules.
 Mr. Obama's errors on the helter-skelter stimulus package were also self-induced. He should put down those Lincoln books and order ''Dave'' from Netflix.
 When Kevin Kline becomes an accidental president, he summons his personal accountant, Murray Blum, to the White House to cut millions in silly programs out of the federal budget so he can give money to the homeless.
 ''Who does these books?'' Blum says with disgust, red-penciling an ad campaign to boost consumers' confidence in cars they'd already bought. ''If I ran my office this way, I'd be out of business.''
 Mr. Obama should have taken a red pencil to the $819 billion stimulus bill and slashed all the provisions that looked like caricatures of Democratic drunken-sailor spending. 
 As Senator Kit Bond, a Republican, put it, there were so many good targets that he felt ''like a mosquito in a nudist colony.'' He was especially worried about the provision requiring the steel and iron for infrastructure construction to be American-made, and by the time the chastened president talked to Chris Wallace on Fox Tuesday, he agreed that ''we can't send a protectionist message.''
 Mr. Obama protested to Brian Williams that the programs denounced as ''wasteful'' by Republicans ''amount to less than 1 percent of the entire package.'' All the more reason to cut them and create a lean, clean bill tailored to creating jobs.
 The Democratic president has been spending so much time trying -- and failing -- to win over Republicans that he may not have noticed the disillusionment in his own ranks. 
 Betrayed by their bankers and leaders, Americans were desperate to trust someone when they made Barack Obama president. His debut has left them skeptical about his willingness to smack down those who would flout his high standards or waste our money. 
 Companies that have gotten bailouts continue to make a mockery of taxpayers.
 Until it came to light Tuesday, Wells Fargo, which received $25 billion in federal funds, was blithely planning a series of ''employee recognition outings'' to Las Vegas luxury hotels this month.
 As ABC reported, Bank of America took its $45 billion in bailout funds and sponsored a five-day carnival outside the Super Bowl stadium, and Morgan Stanley took its $10 billion in bailout money and held a three-day conference at the Breakers in Palm Beach. (Morgan Stanley had also still planned to send top employees to Monte Carlo and the Bahamas, events just canceled.)
 The New York Post revealed that Sandy Weill, former chief executive of Citigroup, took a company jet to fly his family for a Christmas holiday to a $12,000-a-night luxury resort in San Jose del Cabo, Mexico. No matter that the company just got a $50 billion federal bailout and laid off 53,000 worldwide.
 The interior of the 18-seat jet, as described by The Post, is posh, with a full bar, fine-wine selection, $13,000 carpets, Baccarat crystal glasses, Cristofle sterling silver flatware and -- my personal favorite -- pillows made from Hermes scarves.
 Aux barricades! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (51%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (51%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); TOM DASCHLE (77%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



159 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Both Parties Move to Aid Struggling Homeowners

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 -- Four months after Congress tried to rescue the economy with a $700 billion bailout for the financial industry, Republicans and Democrats are suddenly competing to bail out financially struggling homeowners.
 Having spent hundreds of billions of dollars rescuing financial institutions, only to see the economy spiral even deeper into crisis, liberal and conservative economists and lawmakers are pushing to redirect the economic stimulus bill to what they say is the core problem: the housing market.
 Senate Republicans are seeking new tax breaks and up to $300 billion in mortgage subsidies to attract homebuyers. Democrats want to spend at least $50 billion on federal programs aimed at reducing mortgage foreclosures. 
 The Obama administration is hammering out its own plan to spend $50 billion to $100 billion to prevent home foreclosures. And later this month, Democrats hope to pass a measure that would give bankruptcy judges the power to reduce monthly mortgage payments for homeowners who are in default. 
 There is a growing consensus among lawmakers in both parties that the deepening collapse of the housing market is at the heart of the country's acute economic downturn.
 But beneath the consensus over helping the housing market, there are huge differences over who should benefit under the competing plans. Democrats want to aim money directly at people in the greatest distress; Republicans want to aim money at almost all homebuyers, on the theory that a rising tide will eventually lift all boats.
 ''Most people recognize that housing itself is at the root of the current economic downturn,'' said Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader. ''We should fix this problem before we fix anything else.''
 Democratic lawmakers do not disagree, but they complained that the Republican wake-up call amounts to posturing.
 Democratic lawmakers fought for months last year, without success, to pressure the Bush administration into spending money from the $700 billion financial industry rescue program on reducing mortgage foreclosures.
 But Democrats have been forced to rethink elements of the stimulus package, which originally was conceived as boosting almost every other part of the economy on the theory that Congress and the Obama administration would tackle the housing problem through other means.
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, warned on Tuesday that he could not support the stimulus bill unless lawmakers redirected $50 billion to programs aimed at homeowners. 
 Mr. Conrad called for providing about $20 billion to expand foreclosure-reduction programs at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as well as money to expand an existing tax credit for homebuyers.
 In addition, Mr. Conrad wants the Obama administration to devote the remaining $350 billion in the Troubled Asset Relief Program to helping banks, not homeowners.
 ''There is not sufficient money in the TARP to deal with both the housing crisis and the financial crisis,'' Mr. Conrad said in an interview on Tuesday. ''They're going to have to come back to us and ask us for $300 billion to $500 billion more, just for the financial sector.''
 President Obama and senior Senate Democrats have also signaled that they would support Republican proposals for a $15,000 tax credit for homebuyers. Indeed, Senate Democrats were reviewing ideas on Tuesday that would outdo the Republican proposal by offering the tax credit to all homebuyers. Depending on the details, the tax credit would cost $6 billion to $20 billion, Democratic lawmakers said. Under current law, first-time homebuyers receive a tax credit of $7,500. 
 Falling home prices and soaring default rates on subprime mortgages were at the heart of the credit crisis that began in August 2007, which crippled Wall Street and the nation's banks. But starting last September, the economy itself slipped from a mild recession to a severe one. As a result, analysts say, the housing crisis and the financial crisis have both become worse and begun to reinforce each other.
 Home prices have fallen 25 percent since the housing bubble peaked in 2006, representing a $6 trillion loss in wealth. About 2.2 million homes went into foreclosure in 2008, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, and analysts predict that number could hit a record four million this year. 
 Even though home-building has been depressed for almost two years, the soaring number of foreclosures has continued to drive prices down and kept the supply of unsold homes at extremely high levels. 
 Analysts caution that any sweeping effort to reduce mortgage foreclosures would pose daunting challenges. The biggest challenge would be providing financial help to the three million people who are in real trouble without starting a rush to cash in by the tens of millions who are not.
 But Richard Berner, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, said that ignoring the problem would be even worse.
 ''Home prices, housing activity and both mortgage lenders and borrowers will suffer,'' Mr. Berner wrote in a recent report. ''The economic cost of such further declines would exceed the cost of mitigation.''
 The Treasury Department is racing to complete a broad plan that is all but certain to include an expansion of the F.D.I.C.'s program to renegotiate loans for homebuyers at banks it has taken over. Under that program, the F.D.I.C. attempts to reduce a person's monthly payment to about 31 percent of his or her income. The reductions can take place by reducing the interest rate, stretching out the life of the loan or reducing the principle amount of the loan.
 House Democrats, meanwhile, have proposed legislation to expand a program called Hope for Homeowners, which was created last year to help distressed borrowers refinance to a relatively inexpensive fixed-rate loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration.
 Since its inception last year, the program has attracted only a handful of applications. Critics have argued that the program's high up-front fees and annual premiums made the loans expensive. On top of that, homeowners are required to share any eventual profits on the sale of their homes. 
 The Republican approaches are aimed much more at boosting the entire housing market, and would only provide indirect relief to families about to lose their homes.
 Mr. McConnell has proposed that the federal government subsidize mortgages with a fixed interest rate of 4 percent to 4.5 percent. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-controlled mortgage-finance companies, would use their buying power in the mortgage market to drive the rates down. 
 The plan was developed by R. Glenn Hubbard, a former senior economic adviser to former President George Bush who is now dean of Columbia University's business school, and by Christopher Mayer, vice dean of the business school. 
 The low rates would be open to any ''creditworthy'' borrowers, which would probably exclude many if not most homeowners who are now facing foreclosure. But supporters of the plan argue that it would help lift housing prices, which would make it easier for troubled homeowners to either refinance or sell their houses.
 But senior Democratic lawmakers are staunchly opposed to the plan, warning that the costs could climb as high as $1 trillion. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Most people recognize that housing itself is at the root of the current economic downturn,'' Senator Mitch McConnell said. ''We should fix this problem before we fix anything else.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%); JUDGES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



160 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: In Campaign Wars, Apple Still Has Microsoft's Number

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
TWENTY-FIVE years ago, Apple hurled a legendary marketing sledgehammer at I.B.M. personal computers that ran Microsoft software. During the 1984 Super Bowl, Apple ran a television ad that depicted those machines as instruments of Big Brotherish conformity. The ad was shown just once, but people still talk about it.
 Today, Apple is still producing ads that hammer away at computers that run Microsoft's software. But this time, Apple's pounding is constant, even as Microsoft has been weakened by product stumbles and a series of ads that fell flat with the public. 
 While other technology companies curtail their ad budgets to ride out what appears to be an intense and protracted recession, Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., said in its most recent earnings report that it actually increased marketing and advertising during the last three months of 2008, compared with the same period a year ago.
 That has made Apple the second-most prolific technology advertiser, behind only Microsoft. During the first nine months of 2008, Apple's ad spending vaulted to $133 million, surpassing Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M. -- companies with three times Apple's annual sales -- according to the tracking firm TNS Media Intelligence. During the same period, Microsoft spent $191 million.
 Apple's ads promote what you can do with an iPhone or iPod, or show the comedian John Hodgman as a schlubby PC guy being outfoxed by the actor Justin Long as hip Mac guy.
 There is good reason for Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, and its longtime ad agency, TBWA/Chiat/Day, to be drawing these pointed contrasts: Microsoft, Apple's longtime nemesis, is more vulnerable than it has been in years.
 Microsoft's current operating system, Windows Vista, is a well-known disappointment. And the replacement, Windows 7, will not be ready for regular users for at least six months, analysts say. Last month, Microsoft reported poor financial results and said it would lay off as many as 5,000 employees.
 ''Apple is trying to take as much advantage as they can during this period where there is a lot of confusion on the Windows side,'' said Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies and a longtime Apple watcher. ''It wants to bring people into its retail stores and to contrast it to what they already know.''
 Microsoft, for its part, said that Apple gave the attack ads a short rest late last year after Microsoft unveiled its counterattack. Microsoft's campaign, devised by the agency Crispin, Porter & Bogusky, initially featured the comedian Jerry Seinfeld and Microsoft's co-founder, Bill Gates, and then a diverse collection of normal people proudly proclaiming, ''I am a PC.''
 ''I think we confused them a little bit by embracing the stigma they put on our brand and then taking it in a different direction,'' said David Webster, a general manager at Microsoft. 
 An Apple spokesman declined to comment about either company's advertising.
 So far, Apple seems to be winning the fight. The Macintosh gained more than 2 percentage points of market share in the last year and now controls nearly 10 percent of the overall market for personal computers, according to the research firm Net Applications.
 Apple's ads have also fared better than Microsoft's in the war for consumers' hearts. In the last two months, Brand Keys, a market research company based in New York, queried 400 Apple and Microsoft users and measured their perceptions of Apple's and Microsoft's brand equity before and after seeing examples of the companies' advertising. 
 Among the ads the firm showed were ''Bean Counter,'' an Apple spot that poked fun at Microsoft's spending money on advertising instead of fixing product flaws. Brand Keys also surveyed responses to Microsoft's first Seinfeld commercial, ''Shoe Circus,'' and the first ''I am a PC'' spot.
 ''Off the Air,'' an ad that promised Apple stores would help customers switch from Windows to Apple's Mac platform, was highly successful in lifting the brand equity that Apple users felt around the concept of ''innovation, design and added value'' -- a factor that drives loyalty. The spot also improved PC users' perception of Macs for their ''trouble-free performance, service and support.''
 On the other hand, Microsoft's ''Shoe Circus,'' in which Mr. Seinfeld helped Mr. Gates buy shoes, failed miserably with consumers. After seeing the ad, both Apple and Microsoft users had a more negative perception of Microsoft in the areas of innovation, technology, trouble-free design, and warranty and pricing. ''When you see an ad perform this poorly,'' said Amy Shea, the executive vice president at Brand Keys who conducted the research, ''you've got a real problem.''
 The news was not all bad for Microsoft, though. ''I am a PC'' -- the egalitarian response to Apple that Microsoft has settled on for its ongoing campaign -- has worked well to lift PC users' perception of the brand as technologically and environmentally advanced.
 The message of the survey, Ms. Shea said, is that companies should play to their strengths, which in Microsoft's case is the sheer ubiquity of its software around the world.
 ''Everyone who has a PC feels that they are very plugged in and that the world speaks almost one language,'' she said. ''Microsoft's ability to tell that story visually by going around the world made that ad successful and positioned them as green and even cool.''
 Apple, for its part, has played to its reputation as a hip, creative company, personified by Mr. Long's straight-man performance as Mac Guy. The ads also fit with Apple's 25-year history as a company willing to draw colorful juxtapositions against its larger, more powerful rivals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from Apple's classic commercial that ran during the Super Bowl in 1984, its only showing.
 John Hodgman, left, and Justin Long star in ads in which Macs get the better of PCs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TBWA/CHIAT/DAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (66%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (61%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); STEVEN JOBS (58%); JERRY SEINFELD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



161 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: For Obama's Iran Plan, Talk and Some Toughness

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration may take a tough line with Tehran in coming months even as it signals a willingness to move toward direct talks with Iranian officials, according to President Obama's aides and outside experts who have consulted with the government about Iran.
 While Mr. Obama is expected to soften the Bush administration's line against talking to Iran, the aides said, he may also seek to toughen sanctions. Iran's announcement on Tuesday that it launched its first satellite into orbit -- a matter that Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, described as being of ''acute concern to this administration'' -- may reinforce the impulse to get tough. 
 ''This action does not convince us that Iran is acting responsibly to advance stability or security in the region,'' Mr. Gibbs said, adding that the Obama administration ''will use all elements of our national power to deal with Iran and to help it be a responsible member of the international community.''
 A further indication of Mr. Obama's approach could come on Wednesday, when William J. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, is to meet in Germany with world powers seeking to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions. 
 Mr. Obama told the Arabic-language television station Al Arabiya last week that ''if countries like Iran are willing to unclench their fist, they will find an extended hand from us.'' He has also spoken recently of the need to treat Iran with ''mutual respect.'' But among the circle of experts advising Mr. Obama on Iran, several have also advocated increasing the pressure against Tehran. 
 Dennis B. Ross, the longtime Middle East peace negotiator who is expected to be named to a senior post handling Iran, has long argued that the United States must persuade America's European allies to increase economic pressure against Iran. A Bipartisan Policy Center task force that included Mr. Ross issued a report in September saying that ''the Europeans make war more likely if they do not strengthen sanctions against Iran and effectively end all commercial relations.'' 
 Gary Samore, a former Clinton administration arms control negotiator who is expected to become Mr. Obama's nonproliferation czar, has argued that any carrot offered to Iran should be accompanied by a bigger stick. 
 Aides to Mr. Obama say that Mr. Samore has favored offering Tehran warmer relations with the United States, including lifting certain American sanctions against Iran and assuring the Iranian leadership that the United States will not pursue regime change. (Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said in the past that he thought the United States should assure Iran that it would not pursue regime change.) But Mr. Samore has also argued that such an offer is not enough unless it comes backed by the threat of stronger sanctions from the United States, Europe, Russia and China, like, for instance, a ban on foreign investment in Iran's oil and gas industry.
 The aides, along with other advisers, spoke about the direction of Iran policy on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.
 Both Mr. Samore and Mr. Ross are listed on the Web site for United Against Nuclear Iran, an organization dedicated to stopping Iran from getting nuclear weapons. The Web site lists Mr. Samore as a member of the group's advisory board and Mr. Ross as a co-founder. 
 The goal of getting Iran to agree to suspend its uranium enrichment eluded the Bush administration and America's European allies, in part, some foreign policy analysts say, because Russia, China, and some European countries have balked at the idea of increasing economic pressure on Iran. The United States and other Western countries suspect that Iran is enriching uranium to produce nuclear weapons, an accusation that Iranian officials have repeatedly denied.
 Mr. Obama's aides are hoping that he can talk those countries into doing for him what they were unwilling to do for Mr. Bush. ''I think Obama's trip in April will be very important,'' one administration official said, referring to Mr. Obama's expected trip to attend the NATO summit meeting in Strasbourg, France, where he will meet with a number of European leaders for the first time as president.
 Some Europeans have signaled that they are open to additional sanctions against Iran, viewing them as a diplomatic lever that could lead to direct talks between the United States and Iran. ''We want to be helpful in making sure that the outstretched hand of President Obama is a strong hand,'' said the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, in an interview after his first meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Several European diplomats said that France, Britain and Germany might be willing to consider sanctions if the Obama administration makes an effort to improve the atmosphere with Iran first.
 Mr. Obama's aides say that no decision has been made yet about how to proceed on Iran policy. ''We're still reviewing Iran policy,'' said Robert A. Wood, the acting State Department spokesman. Indeed, Mr. Ross has yet to be named to his new post. And while Mrs. Clinton also struck a conciliatory note toward Iran last week, Mr. Obama's top aides have yet to sit down for a substantive meeting on Iran, administration officials said. 
 American policy toward Iran is also likely to be complicated by presidential elections scheduled for June. An overture by the United States would raise two kinds of risks, experts say: that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran would benefit politically from such a gesture, and that he may choose to rebuff Washington to score political points before the voting.
 At the same time, several experts said the Obama administration cannot afford to sit on its hands, in part because any further delay in persuading Iran to change course would give Tehran more time to enrich uranium. 
 ''Coming out of the barrel like a jack-in-the-box, saying, 'Meet us in two days in Geneva for talks,' would be a mistake,'' said Thomas R. Pickering, a former undersecretary of state for political affairs. . ''But you have to pursue negotiations, regardless,'' he said. ''To wait around for a more favorable president is not a good idea.''
 Mr. Pickering and other Iran experts favor a series of confidence-building steps, which could open the door to more substantive direct contacts. Among these could be the opening of an American interests section in Tehran, a low-level diplomatic outpost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (56%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



162 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Minding Coney Island

 BODY:
Lawrence Ferlinghetti once wrote that Coney Island is ''where I first fell in love with unreality.'' Today, a desolate reality has taken hold at the legendary amusement park. As rides close, bulldozers uproot land that once held delightfully sinister sideshows. The few rides left barely lure neighborhood children and nostalgic tourists. 
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg says he wants to revive Coney Island, or as Robert Lieber, a deputy mayor, puts it, ''We're trying to bling it up.'' The city development team has come up with elaborate plans to turn the Brooklyn park into the ''destination for tourists'' that it once was, and New York's Municipal Art Society has its own proposal. 
 The surprise here is that the two plans are not drastically far apart. As New Yorkers approve new zoning for Coney Island, they should use the best of each proposal.
 The city's version displays Mayor Bloomberg's commendable effort to keep Coney Island from being overwhelmed by oceanfront condominiums. On the 60-acre spread proposed by the city, there are thousands of possible housing units, but most are at a distance from the entertainment areas. 
 The hotels are a different story. This zoning proposal would allow a row of four hotels between the Stillwell Avenue subway stop and the outdoor entertainment area. The hotels could too easily become a wall, blocking public access to the sideshows and the rides, the boardwalk and the ocean. The hotels also squeeze the outdoor rides into a narrow strip of about 12 acres -- an area that is simply too small to attract enough rides and attractions to bring back the big crowds. 
 The art society has argued that one iconic ride, something on the order of the London Eye would be another way to lure visitors from around the world. Obviously, a big new ride would take up more outdoor space as well. Because this project could take a decade to build, any rezoning now must encourage development without destroying the dreams of a modernized Coney Island. 
 The new Coney Island should not be a theme park. No Six Flags or Disney World. It should be an alluring adaptation of Dreamland and Luna Park and the other exotic places that always made Coney Island splendidly odd, a New Yorker's kind of unreality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ZONING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); APPROVALS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



163 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Gregg Is Nominated for Commerce Post

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the White House grappled with fresh revelations about tax problems among its political appointees, President Obama on Tuesday nominated Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, to help ''shore up our financial system and revitalize our economy'' by serving as commerce secretary.
 ''With the stakes this high, we cannot afford to get trapped in the same old partisan gridlock,'' Mr. Obama said as he named the third Republican nominee to his cabinet. He added, ''Judd is a master of reaching across the aisle to get things done.'' 
The president made the announcement exactly two months after he nominated his first choice for commerce secretary, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico. He withdrew his name from consideration because of a federal investigation into state contracts, the first of several controversies surrounding the president's top nominees.
 As Mr. Obama stood in the Grand Foyer of the White House with Mr. Gregg, the president's nominee for chief White House performance officer withdrew her name from consideration, citing concerns over unpaid unemployment taxes in the District of Columbia. The nominee, Nancy Killefer, said her confirmation would create a ''distraction'' and delay the urgent agenda facing the administration.
 Mr. Obama declined to take questions from reporters about Ms. Killefer or Tom Daschle, the president's choice for Health and Human Services Secretary, who is fighting through tax concerns of his own. A senior administration official said on Tuesday that the president remains committed to seeing that Mr. Daschle is confirmed.
 The president is seeking to advance his economic recovery plan through the Senate, dispatching his top advisers to Capitol Hill to answer questions and make changes to the legislation. Mr. Obama is taking the unusual step of inviting the top anchors from the five broadcast and cable television networks to the Oval Office on Tuesday afternoon to speak about the urgency of his proposal.
 ''By now, our economic crisis is well known, and our economy's shrinking, unemployment rolls are growing, businesses and families can't get credit, and small businesses can't secure the loans they need to create jobs and get their products to market,'' Mr. Obama said Tuesday. ''Now's the time for Washington to act with the same sense of urgency that Americans all across the country feel every single day.''
 In naming Mr. Gregg to the post of Commerce Secretary, which requires Senate confirmation, the president is seeking to win more bipartisan support for the plan. Mr. Obama said that Mr. Gregg would be a key member of his economic team.
 ''Judd is famous or infamous, depending on your perspective, on Capitol Hill, for his strict fiscal discipline,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's not that he enjoys saying no, although if it's directed at your bill, you might feel that way. It's that he shares my deep-seated commitment to guaranteeing that our children inherit a future they can afford.''
 The president added: ''Clearly Judd and I don't agree on every issue, most notably who should have won the election. But we do agree on the urgent need to get American businesses and families back on their feet.''
 Mr. Gregg, who is in the middle of his third Senate term, said he agreed to answer the president's call to serve because of the enormity of the nation's economic crisis.
 ''This is not a time for partisanship,'' Mr. Gregg said. ''This is not a time when we should stand in our ideological corners and shout at each other. This is a time to govern and govern well.''
 Part of the agreement of nominating Mr. Gregg pertained to who would fill his Senate seat. The Democratic governor of New Hampshire, John Lynch, agreed to appoint a Republican to succeed Mr. Gregg. Advisers to Mr. Lynch said Tuesday that he would name Bonnie Newman, a Republican fixture in New Hampshire who has served in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. 
 ''I also want to thank the governor of New Hampshire for his courtesy and courage in being willing to make this possible through the agreement that we have relative to my successor in the Senate,'' Mr. Gregg said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



164 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Credibility

 BODY:
At last, the new administration is waking up to the need for top officials to live up to the high ethical standards set by the president. It should give Americans new hope that President Obama will live up to his campaign vows to reform government. 
 Even before the Tom Daschle choice blew up, Mr. Obama had lost some reformist luster. He nominated a lobbyist for deputy secretary of defense after pledging to keep lobbyists out of government, and his pick for Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, was found to have not paid back taxes he clearly realized were due.
 So it was a critical mass of trouble when two other nominees for high office were found to have failed to pay taxes until the floodlight of White House appointments shone on them. Withdrawing was the only thing to do.
 Former Senator Daschle, who the president had chosen for secretary of health and human services, failed to pay substantial past taxes and earned a sizable income from health-related companies that would be affected by the reforms he was supposed to lead. His withdrawal need not undermine the administration's push for health care reform. Had he won Senate confirmation, his past financial ties would have provided a handy target for critics of any plans he might put forward. 
 The other withdrawal involved Nancy Killefer, who was to be deputy director for management at the Office of Management and Budget and chief performance officer for the federal government, a new position. The extent of her tax problems have not been spelled out. Her brief statement and press reports indicate that she failed to pay unemployment taxes to the District of Columbia for household help -- the so-called nanny tax issue. 
 It may have been a small-bore problem, but the Senate committee that would have had to confirm her was only beginning to look into her background. And it's hard to imagine how she could have proceeded in a job in which Mr. Obama said she would help ''restore the American people's confidence in their government.'' 
 The primary weapon for a president who really intends to clean up Washington is credibility -- and that requires integrity. Mr. Obama showed that he has both of those things in abundance with his refreshingly frank admission that he ''screwed up'' and his assurance that he had learned from his mistake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TOM DASCHLE (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



165 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: A New Member Joins the President's Team, Though He's Not in Lockstep With It

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Judd Gregg, named by President Obama on Tuesday as the choice for commerce secretary, once supported eliminating the department he is to lead. He differs with his boss-to-be in favoring oil drilling on the coast of an Alaska wildlife refuge. He promotes a lighter touch with China than does the president. And he disagrees with him in backing private accounts for Social Security.
 Given all that, Mr. Gregg, a deficit hawk from New Hampshire who is the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, certainly fits with Mr. Obama's professed desire to create a cabinet with conflicting views. If confirmed, he will be at the top of the list of administration officials having fundamental differences with a president who is enlisting them to advance his agenda. 
Mr. Obama acknowledged as much when he announced Tuesday morning that he was nominating Mr. Gregg. ''Clearly,'' he told reporters, ''Judd and I don't agree on every issue.''
 Mr. Gregg himself said in an interview that while the two had differences, he did not foresee being asked to promote any policy violating his conscience. 
 ''He's willing to bring into his council chamber and to listen to somebody who comes from a different philosophy,'' the senator said of the president, ''and he actively sought me out to do that. But he's the captain. Put another way, I'm a field commander.''
 Aides to both men said that on crucial issues like efforts to rejuvenate the economy, the two mostly saw eye to eye, Mr. Gregg having been one of the chief negotiators for the $700 billion bank bailout passed last fall with Mr. Obama's support.
 As a new cabinet designee in an awkward week, Mr. Gregg also offers another plus for the president: He said he was confident his taxes were in order. 
 Mr. Gregg does hold a variety of stocks that, under Commerce Department ethics rules, will most likely have to be either sold or placed in a blind trust. Many were issued by banks that benefited from the bailout legislation (and whose political action committees were, coincidentally, among the many financial industry PACs that contributed more than $300,000 to his 2004 Senate re-election campaign, according to the Web site CQ MoneyLine). The Senate's rules generally do not bar its members from holding stock in companies affected by legislation they draft or support.
 Mr. Gregg said many of the stocks had been passed down for generations in his family, which, in the late 1800s, helped found the Indian Head Bank; in 1988 the bank was sold to Fleet Bank, which was later acquired by Bank of America. Of his banking stocks as a whole, the senator lamented, ''There's not much value left.''
 He does not have to worry about money, however. The Center for Responsive Politics lists him as the 21st-richest senator, with assets, according to his 2007 financial disclosure forms, of $3 million to $10 million. He even won $850,000 in the Powerball lottery in 2005.
 Mr. Gregg preserved good will within his own party by making his move to the administration contingent on the naming of a Republican to succeed him for the two years remaining in his Senate term. On Tuesday, New Hampshire's Democratic governor, John Lynch, complied, saying he would appoint J. Bonnie Newman, an official in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George Bush who was also Mr. Gregg's chief of staff when he served in the House.
 White House aides said that if confirmed, Mr. Gregg would be among those officials rotating into the president's daily briefings on the economy. 
 They also said Mr. Obama had picked him in part because of his influence with Senate Republicans. One fellow Budget Committee member, Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, agreed that ''he'll have a lot of credibility with colleagues,'' though Mr. Sessions warned that good will had its limits: ''If he wants to send more money to Wall Street fat cats, I may not support him on it.'' 
 Mr. Gregg could face greater resistance from liberals and Democrats. The liberal blog Daily Kos features a list of 88 reasons he should not be commerce secretary, among them his vote against legislation making it easier for victims of pay discrimination to sue -- the first bill Mr. Obama signed as president -- and his participation in debate preparations for George W. Bush in 2000, when he played the part of Al Gore, and in 2004, when he assumed the role of John Kerry.
 Representative Barbara Lee of California, chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, has criticized Mr. Gregg for his 1995 vote in favor of a budget resolution that assumed the elimination of the Commerce Department, and for declining a request from President Bill Clinton to increase financing for the 2000 census, a Commerce Department function.
 Mr. Gregg said his critics were selectively plucking items from a long voting record of support for the department's activity. He also said, jokingly, that his backing for the resolution abolishing the department came during ''my wild and crazy days.''
 ''As a practical matter,'' he said, ''I believe things are so difficult right now we all need to be in the same boat pulling oars to the shore.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judd Gregg on Tuesday with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ETHICS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (75%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BAILOUTS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); BANK FAILURES (68%); WILDLIFE (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (66%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (66%); BAC (LSE) (66%); 8648 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



166 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Additions by Senate Push Stimulus Near $1 Trillion

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Kate Phillips contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate on Tuesday pushed the cost of the economic stimulus package above $900 billion by adding billions for medical research and tax breaks for car buyers. 
 Angling to spur automobile sales as part of the economic stimulus package, the Senate voted to add an $11 billion provision to the bill that will allow most Americans to claim a tax deduction for the sales tax and any loan interest on the purchase of a new car between Nov. 12, 2008, and the end of 2009. 
 The vote, 71 to 26, in favor of the tax break for car buyers came as the Senate began to act on what is expected to be a long list of amendments to the stimulus measure. The House last week approved an $820 billion version of the bill, which is the top priority of President Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress. Mr. Obama has said the final bill should not cost more than $900 billion. 
 Later, by voice vote, the Senate added $3.5 billion for the National Institutes of Health, bringing the total price tag to just over $900 billion with additional increases to come. 
 Far more contentious debate is expected later in the week when Senate Republicans plan to put forward major changes to the bill, including efforts to bolster the housing market and to cut back spending initiatives in favor of broader and deeper tax cuts. 
 Democrats have said they are open to changes, but to what extent is still unclear. 
 In other votes on Tuesday, the Senate rejected an amendment put forward by Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, that would have added $25 billion in public works projects to the recovery bill, including highway construction, public transportation and water and sewer projects. 
 That provision, which needed 60 votes to advance, failed by a vote of 58 in favor to 35 opposed. 
 The Senate also approved, by 52 to 45, an amendment by Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, stripping out a $246 million tax break for Hollywood production studios that would have allowed greater deductions for movie production equipment and other costs. 
 The stimulus measure is one of the largest spending bills in history and will provide vast sums of money for numerous programs, including public works projects and aid to states for education and health care. But there are only a few provisions, like the tax break on car sales, aimed broadly at the general public. 
 Senator Barbara Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, who proposed that tax deduction, said it would aid the struggling automobile industry and save many families roughly $1,500 on the purchase of a $25,000 car. 
 ''This amendment is actually about creating jobs,'' Ms. Mikulski said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''Our automobile industry is languishing.'' 
 She added, ''For the consumers, it means they get a deal: It's a market incentive to get them into the showroom.'' 
 Throughout the day there was sporadic skirmishing on the Senate floor not just between Democrats and Republicans but also, at times, internally between Democrats as members of the majority party maneuvered to push through their changes to the bill. 
 Bigger battles may lie ahead as Republicans push for large-scale revisions, while Democrats seek to stay on track to get the measure approved and on Mr. Obama's desk by the end of next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); APPROVALS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TOM COBURN (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



167 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 444 words

 BODY:
PLAN TO CURB EXECUTIVE PAY The Obama administration is said to want to impose a pay cap of $500,000 for top executives at companies that receive large federal bailouts. 
 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SLUMP Not only has an anticipated boom in wind and solar energy failed to materialize, but the credit crisis and economic downturn have brought the opposite: installations of wind and solar power are plummeting. [B1.] 
 CHANGING CELLPHONE INDUSTRY With more than half of the world's six billion people already having wireless subscriptions, the downturn in the cellphone industry may be more an indicator of saturation than a result of recession. [B1.]
 AUTO SALES SLIDE MORE New vehicle sales in the United States fell 37 percent in January to one of the lowest levels in half a century. Automakers said the market was unlikely to get much worse, but were bracing for most of 2009 to be just as bad. [B3.]
 STOCK MARKETS MOVE HIGHER Good earnings reports from two pharmaceutical companies and an unexpected bit of positive news from the housing market lifted stock markets higher, though financial companies continued to lag. [B9.]
 AN UNHAPPY SAGE OF OMAHA For years, Alice Schroeder, whom Warren E. Buffett chose to write his biography, hosted an annual dinner for him, with hundreds of guests. This year, Mr. Buffett seems unhappy with part of the book, and the dinner is off. [B2.]
 FEARS OF A MADOFF WITNESS The securities investigator who tried unsuccessfully to spur federal securities regulators to investigate Bernard L. Madoff said he did not initially disclose his own identity to regulators because he feared for his life. [B4.] 
 SEX OFFENDERS ON THE WEB The social networking site MySpace gave state officials the names of 90,000 registered sex offenders it had banned from its site, but the attorney general of Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal, above, says he thinks that is the tip of the iceberg. [B4.] 
 NO PILOTS' UNION AT JETBLUE JetBlue Airways said its pilots did not cast enough votes to form a union, ending the most significant labor organizing drive at the 10-year-old airline. [B7.]
 FEUD IN ACTORS' UNION A feud among Screen Actors Guild leaders spilled into court, and a judge temporarily derailed an attempt by the union's president to stop a task force from taking over contract negotiations. [B5.]
 WEAKENING MARKET FOR DVDS As consumer interest in DVDs weakens, the Walt Disney Company says it will reduce the number of discs it releases and rethink how it markets them. [B5.]
 The video game maker Electronic Arts reported a disappointing holiday season and said it would lay off employees, close facilities and trim its roster of games. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); JUDGES (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (82%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (80%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (82%); EA (NASDAQ) (80%); DIS (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (70%); BERNARD MADOFF (51%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



168 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Ends Bid for Post; Obama Concedes Mistake

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Robert Pear and Carl Hulse contributing reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Tom Daschle withdrew his nomination as secretary of health and human services on Tuesday after weathering four days of scrutiny over unpaid taxes, prompting President Obama to concede having ''screwed up'' in undermining his own ethical standards by pushing the appointment.
 ''I've got to own up to my mistake, which is that ultimately it's important for this administration to send a message that there aren't two sets of rules,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview with NBC News. ''You know, one for prominent people and one for ordinary folks who have to pay their taxes.''
 Mr. Daschle, a closer confidant to Mr. Obama than any other cabinet nominee, had offered to step down over the weekend, but officials close to both men said Mr. Obama had urged him to fight for confirmation. 
 Mr. Daschle went to Capitol Hill on Monday to keep his confirmation on track, but by Tuesday morning, with the pressure showing no signs of easing, he told the president that he believed he had become a distraction and too wounded to be effective. 
 It was the rockiest day yet for the new White House. Two hours before Mr. Daschle withdrew, Mr. Obama's nominee to be the chief White House performance officer, Nancy Killefer, pulled her name from consideration because of unpaid payroll taxes for a household employee. 
 The developments distracted attention from Mr. Obama's effort to push his economic stimulus plan through the Senate and complicated the initiative that Mr. Daschle was to have led, his plan for overhauling the health care system. 
 The nominees' tax problems also gave Republicans a new argument against Mr. Obama and his party as the economic debate proceeds: that Democrats are cavalier about taxing other people because they do not abide by the tax laws themselves. 
 In evening interviews on broadcast and cable television networks, Mr. Obama said he took responsibility for the errors. ''And so I'm frustrated with myself, with our team,'' he told NBC, ''but ultimately my job is to get this thing back on track because what we need to focus on is a deteriorating economy and getting people back to work.''
 He added, ''I'm here on television saying I screwed up and that's part of the era of responsibility.'' 
 Mr. Daschle delivered the news in a call on Tuesday morning to Mr. Obama, who was in his study, just off the Oval Office. He also stepped down from his position as White House heath czar, a job with a West Wing office. 
 Mr. Daschle said Monday that his failure to pay $128,000 in taxes for the use of a friend's chauffer and car service was ''completely inadvertent.'' 
 Declining an interview request on Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Daschle said in a brief statement distributed by the White House that he would not have been able to lead an overhaul of the nation's health care system ''with the full faith of the Congress and the American people.''
 ''I am not that leader,'' Mr. Daschle said, ''and will not be a distraction.''
 The withdrawals by the two advisers represent the highest-level political casualties of the young administration and raised fresh questions about the vetting procedures for officials already selected and scores of positions that remain open. 
 Senate Republicans signaled their intention to step up scrutiny of all appointees. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner was confirmed last week after apologizing and weathering weeks of criticism for late payment of $34,000 in income taxes. 
 Both Mr. Daschle and Ms. Killefer pulled out on their own accord, officials said, after their tax returns were scrutinized by the Senate Finance Committee. On the campaign trail, Mr. Obama often expressed frustration to aides about the practice of cutting loose advisers at the first sign of political trouble.
 ''They both decided and recognized that their nominations would distract from the important goals and the critical agenda that the president put forward,'' Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said Tuesday. 
 Asked repeatedly whether the White House had quietly urged Mr. Daschle to step aside to quell the controversy, Mr. Gibbs said, ''He did not get a signal.''
 Among the people mentioned as possible candidates for the job of health secretary are Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, a former state insurance commissioner; former Gov. John A. Kitzhaber of Oregon, a doctor; and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan. All are Democrats.
 In the Senate, Democrats were caught by surprise by Mr. Daschle's decision, particularly after his appearance at the Finance Committee on Monday, as well as several indications that he could win confirmation. 
 But Republicans were intensifying their criticism of his tax failings, and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Mr. Daschle told him in a phone call on Tuesday morning that he believed the nomination was getting too much attention. 
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said Mr. Daschle, the former Senate majority leader, had done ''the honorable thing to spare his family, the president and his colleagues in the Senate from a tough political battle that would lie ahead.'' 
 Mr. Durbin added, ''I think he would have prevailed in the end, but it would have taken a while, and there would have been some suffering.'' 
 The day had been scripted by advisers to turn the page on the tax controversy and refocus on the economy. In a rare move, television anchors for five broadcast and cable networks had been invited to interview Mr. Obama about the urgency of passing the economic recovery plan, a decision that magnified the troubles at the White House by giving them increased prominence on the evening news. 
 He delivered almost precisely the same mea culpa to each of the anchors as they cycled through the Oval Office. 
 Hours earlier, as his advisers huddled in the West Wing to shape a strategy for responding to the dizzying turn of events, Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, made an unscheduled stop at a public school not far away.
 ''We were just tired of being in the White House,'' Mr. Obama told second graders at Capital City Public Charter School.
 Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, who sits on the Finance Committee, said he believed Mr. Daschle should not have withdrawn his name.
 ''I believe that when the smoke clears and the frenzy has ended, no one will believe that this unwitting mistake should have erased 30 years of selfless public service and remarkable legislative skill and expertise on health care,'' Mr. Kerry said. 
 In the case of Ms. Killefer, administration officials said she had failed to pay more than a year's worth of unemployment taxes on household help. 
 The District of Columbia filed a $946.69 tax lien on her home in 2005 for failure to pay the tax. That was disclosed to the Senate Finance Committee, but officials said her tax records were being further scrutinized.
 ''I recognize that your agenda and the duties facing your chief performance officer are urgent,'' Ms. Killefer wrote in a letter to Mr. Obama on Tuesday.
 ''I have also come to realize in the current environment that my personal tax issue of D.C. unemployment tax could be used to create exactly the kind of distraction and delay those duties must avoid.'' 
 Ms. Killefer, head of the Washington office of the consulting firm McKinsey & Company, was named to the new position on Jan. 7. In the announcement, Mr. Obama said she would help ''restore the American people's confidence in their government.'' 
 He said at the time that her role would be to scour the budget for wasteful or inefficient spending. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama returning to the Oval Office on Tuesday, a day on which two of his appointees withdrew over tax problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ETHICS (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TOM DASCHLE (92%); NANCY KILLEFER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



169 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: How to Avoid A Tom Daschle Tax Problem

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
What do you do to make your tax returns bulletproof? Write to rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In just a couple of hours on Tuesday, two high-level nominees for jobs in the Obama administration took themselves out of the running because of tax problems that they could have avoided.
 So what sort of mess is lurking in your return?
 Tom Daschle, who was to head the Health and Human Services Department, had income that he didn't report in a timely fashion. 
 Nancy Killefer, who was Mr. Obama's nominee for chief White House performance officer, had a nanny tax problem. (And let's not forget Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who made a number of tax errors but somehow survived.) 
 The tax code is complicated enough that many, perhaps most returns contain some sort of flub. But this is no excuse for making big mistakes, even if the Internal Revenue Service audits only about 1 percent of all returns (though a higher percentage of those from the wealthy). The system is what it is, and law-abiding citizens are supposed to comply with it. 
 So if you're trying to produce a bulletproof set of tax returns, start with a simple suggestion from Anthony J. Guinta, a principal with Homrich & Berg, a wealth management firm in Georgia: Assume you'll be appointed to a cabinet position someday. Then, inform your accountant, if you have one, of this fact and proceed accordingly.
 If your accountant follows through, doing your tax returns each year will involve the same amount of scrutiny that presidential appointees receive. The paradox here, according to J. Mark Joseph of Sentinel Wealth Management in Reston, Va., is that the troubled appointees ultimately got that level of vetting. But all those mistakes raise the question of why the nominees didn't get it right in the first place. 
 By adopting a conservative, even paranoid, approach, you will improve your odds of avoiding the tax problems President Obama's appointees encountered. It might also help you sleep better around tax season. Here's how that mindset might have helped Obama's nominees -- and could help you, too, in the next 10 weeks (not to mention years). 
 DON'T FORGET YOUR DRIVER Mr. Daschle's mistake in missing income was related to his consulting work and use of a car and driver. 
 The real problem, according to Allan S. Roth, who runs Wealth Logic, a financial planning firm in Colorado Springs, is that we're wired to hunt for deductions but not additional taxable income. ''We think about how we can have more money in our pockets and not how we can pay more money,'' he said.
 But there are lots of ways to earn taxable income, and thus increase the amount we have to pay in taxes. ''There are different ways that people are compensated, including nonmonetary benefits,'' said Dan Shapiro, a tax partner with New York accounting firm Berdon LLP. ''There's deferred compensation or stock options. Any time you receive something of value from somebody, a person or organization that you have an employment or consulting arrangement with, you have to assess it.''
 So ask yourself this: What, of any value, did you take in or use last year thanks to someone else, and what might the tax implications be? 
 THE CASE FOR GETTING HELP Mr. Geithner made a number of mistakes that he later corrected, including neglecting to pay payroll taxes when he worked for the International Monetary Fund, and improperly counting sleepaway camp in his dependent care tax credit calculations.
 More than the errors, however, the disclosure that really got people talking in the financial planning world was the fact that he was trying to do his own returns in some of the years. 
 There is something noble about trying to do it all (and understand it all) yourself. But if you're taking the paranoid approach, have an accountant double-check your work. Or, better yet, start with a live accountant with decades of experience and then have another one at a different firm check the first person's returns.
 David McPherson, of Four Ponds Financial Planning in Falmouth, Mass., suggests this list, for starters, of people who should not do their own taxes: Small-business owners, who are better off spending the time expanding their businesses; owners of investment properties; second-home owners, particularly those who rent out the property part of the year but also use it themselves; people with large investment losses who wish to reap tax benefits; anyone thinking about selling an asset that will lead to a large capital gain. That covers an awful lot of us, aside from those with political aspirations.
 Full disclosure: My father is a partner in a medium-size accounting firm that does personal income tax returns, including mine. But even if he didn't do mine free, I'd pay someone else to do them. Good preparers can help find savings, just as they can discover income you haven't reported. Their fees may also be tax-deductible. 
 THE NANNY TAX While I wrote about the nanny tax issue a few weeks ago, Ms. Killefer's problem with unemployment taxes for household help suggests the need for a couple of reminders. If you have a babysitter or home health aide or housekeeper, you're probably responsible for more than just their Social Security and Medicare taxes. There may also be payments related to unemployment or disability insurance or workers' compensation coverage. 
 If you make mistakes, and the authorities catch up with you, pay the back taxes and fines promptly. And if your accountant expresses even a smidgen of doubt about how to handle all of this, look to a specialist like Breedlove & Associates, the Nanny Tax Company or HomeWork Solutions for help with the blizzard of paperwork that you'll need. 
 DON'T START IN MARCH Cramming all of your thinking about taxes into a few weeks of the year is a recipe for errors. Your accountant might miss things, and you could, too. 
 Steven Podnos, principal of Wealth Care L.L.C. in Merritt Island, Fla., suggests a tax-focused conversation with an experienced accountant during the tax year, not just a rushed conversation the following March or April. Then, you'll be more likely to catch the need for quarterly filings or potential nanny tax issues. 
 CHECK YOUR WORK Last year's tax return is a good reference point, both when you start the process of filing tax returns each year and again at the end. ''Sometimes the light bulb goes off and you realize you forgot all about that bank account that paid interest,'' said Cindy Hockenberry, the research coordinator with the National Association of Tax Professionals in Appleton, Wis.
 Double-check the math as well. The Internal Revenue Service has both addition and subtraction on its list of most common errors. Topic 303, on the I.R.S. Web site, ticks off several others.
 All of this work, the trips to the I.R.S. site and the time and extra expense, may feel as if it's a tax on top of a tax. Now that President Obama has lost a couple of nominees to tax errors, maybe he'll consider the possibility of finally simplifying the tax code.
 Until then, however, it probably pays to be paranoid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); TAX AUDITS (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009



170 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: A Girl World Closes, And Fans Mourn

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
WHEN Domino magazine folded last week, another casualty of the economic smack-down, a howl of protest rang through the blogosphere. Fans of the girlish, how-to decorating magazine owned by Conde Nast were vociferous in their disappointment, posting anguished comments on design sites like Apartment Therapy, Decorno and Design Sponge (which accrued 498 remarks in just a few hours), as well as nondesign sites, like The Huffington Post. Even Gawker readers set aside their snark to mourn.
The commenters bemoaned the death of a magazine that ''felt'' like them, and worried that their Domino subscription renewals, already paid, would yield subscriptions to Architectural Digest, Conde Nast's remaining shelter title (median reader age: 50).
Most commenters linked to their own blogs or Flickr pages, and slideshows of their own homes, each bearing the distinct Domino imprimatur (much throwing of sheepskin, chic-cute tablescapes and Lucite furniture). 
Many compared the arrival of their monthly Domino to Christmas morning.
''Noooooo,'' lamented Sewbettie on Design Sponge, ''this is the one design magazine that I really related to -- it had design I could actually aspire to (instead of, um, yeah, maybe after I win the lottery).''
Sewbettie is the screen name of Cara Angelotta, 25, a second-year medical student in Chicago who runs a fabric company, Sewbettie.com, with her boyfriend, Mark Cesarik. Web-savvy and creative, Ms. Angelotta is emblematic of the Domino readership. For a few hours last week, posters on Design Sponge grew so excited by their own numbers, they wondered if they might petition Conde Nast and agitate for a stay of execution for their beloved title.
And why not? In under four years, Domino had succeeded in attracting the young, energetic readers that all media profess to desire beyond all else. Indeed, their sheer numbers seem to pose a question: why would a giant media company like Conde Nast cut off access not only to its present -- energetic young women eager to shop at Target for mirrored tiles to glue around a fireplace, as Sandee Royalty did recently in her suburban Houston home, following something she saw in Domino -- but also to its future? Here was vivid proof of a dedicated fan base for a magazine that seemed perfectly poised to transition to the Web, that in fact already had an appealing Web presence, rather than the awkward foothold sites of most Conde Nast titles.
But while its circulation was strong and growing, advertising numbers, much more important, demanded it die: it received less than half the amount of advertising pulled in by Architectural Digest last year (a drop of 4.5 percent from 2007, according to Media Industry Newsletter).
Did Domino's demise augur the crumbling of a larger, cultural movement, characterized by a girlish and fizzy optimism and an appetite for Jonathan Adler ceramics and Parsons tables from West Elm, and peopled by thousands of crafty, handy young women -- like Carrie Bradshaw but cooler, with fewer shoes, better values and a mortgage?
In 2004, when Deborah Needleman, then a young House & Garden editor, pitched a new shelter magazine to James Truman, Conde Nast's editorial director at the time, she described it as ''Lucky for the home.'' While Lucky sells itself as a ''magazine about shopping,'' from the get-go in September 2000 it had been modeled in part on Sassy, a young women's title that spoke directly to its readers in their own vernacular, and with staff writers who were characters on the page.
''The shelter format was 100 years old,'' Ms. Needleman said recently. ''There seem to be two kinds: either the out-of-reach aspirational ones,'' and the very direct, how-to titles like Real Simple and Better Homes and Gardens.
''I didn't want to do either of those things. Truthfully, most magazines talk to ad categories, like 'the beauty buyer.' I just wanted to talk to the reader. The whole idea was, What is each person's idea of how they want to live and how can we give her the tools?'' Domino would be generational, and reflective of its time; it would engage with its readers with hand-written type, headlines like ''Trad Is Rad,'' and features on how to translate the colors and style of an outfit into a room, or another called ''You bought it, now what?''
By most yardsticks, the magazine largely succeeded in its mandate. Its rate base -- the number of paid subscriptions advertisers are guaranteed -- reached 850,000 this month. Its newsstand sales were increasing, according to Jack Hanrahan, a media consultant and the editor of CircMatters, a newsletter about the magazine business.
Mr. Hanrahan noted that Domino's newsstand sales averaged 111,000 last June, up from about 96,000 the year before. And since last March, he said, ''they've been serving 200,000 more than their promised 850,000, because they took on House & Garden's subscriptions when it folded.''
''They are promising 850,000 and delivering 1.161 million paid and verified copies, which is a huge bonus to advertisers,'' he said. ''The readers are there. It's the advertising that's got to come back around.''
The business model for magazines, of course, is based on ad revenues, not magazine sales. And home advertisers, like everyone else, are beyond skittish. In a press release issued Dec. 28, Charles Townsend, president and chief executive of Conde Nast, announced, ''This decision to cease publication of the magazine and its Web site is driven entirely by the economy.'' The company declined to comment further for this article.
''I think it's pretty simple,'' said Charlie Rutman, senior adviser to MPG North America, a media buying company. ''The magazine industry in every category is under extreme pressure, extraordinary pressure, for a lot of reasons: the Internet, the cost of subscriptions in a tough economy, the tough economy, you name it. By the way, there probably are too many magazines, but if companies can't survive these kinds of pressures we're not going to have any magazines in the future.''
Recently Mr. Hanrahan ran some numbers on the shelter category (what he called ''the home service category'' and which includes titles like Family Handyman and Hobby Farms -- who knew?). He compared the number of titles in 2008 to the numbers in 2006. ''The category had 38 magazines in 2006,'' he said, ''and 38 in 2008. Four dropped out, but were replaced by four new ones.'' Overall, he continued, ''single copy sales lost 2 percent, a very minor slip when you think about how bad the single copy sales have been overall'' -- sales of all magazines were down 8 percent early last year. ''This is why I came to the conclusion that this category is as vibrant to readers as it's ever been,'' he said.
Jamie Meares, 28, would certainly agree. Ms. Meares, who has a business screen-printing T-shirts in Raleigh, N.C., lives in a '50s bungalow that she and her husband are slowly decorating, with Domino as inspiration. She buys two or three copies of each issue -- the pristine ones go in a binder, others are torn up for ideas.
Ms. Meares is hip enough to listen to My Chemical Romance, but she's grown-up enough to have a mortgage. And she has a blog, isuwannee.blogspot.com (a Southernism, she said, for ''I swear, or have you ever?''), which details how when ''Domino spoke, I listened,'' as she put it. Indeed, links to her Flickr files showed a nice sampling of her at-home interpretations of elements from the Domino canon like a ''landscaped'' bureau, and the deployment of woven ethnic textiles called suzanis.
''Domino worked for me because there were women in there that were my age,'' she said, ''and I loved that. It's not Karl Lagerfeld's house, not totally unattainable. And they would tell you where to get things, at places like West Elm or Target or Pottery Barn, places you could go and touch and feel and be a part of.'' It worked, too, for Sandee Royalty, a stay-at-home mother in her late 30s, living in Houston's outer suburbs. ''Domino was my major resource for anything practical. I would get my 100-calorie M&M's and my hot cup of tea and my Domino and go through the whole thing cover to cover.'' Her Flickr pages show a contemporary house, all '30s glam, with a white shag rug, white leather chairs and a white fireplace tiled with mirrors -- a Domino trick, she said -- and guarded by two white resin poodles (''$29.95 at T.J. Maxx,'' she said proudly) copied from a Domino photo (''except their poodles were $400'').
She explained a pastime she calls ''magazining'' -- sitting on the couch with her friends and ''traveling'' through the pages of Domino. ''Like shopping, but we don't spend any money,'' she said. As much as she uses and likes them, the design blogs aren't a satisfying substitute. ''I need something I can archive, something I can 'magazine' with my friends,'' Ms. Royalty said.
Marian Salzman, a trend spotter and partner at Porter Novelli, a marketing and public relations company, wondered if, as she put it, ''these women may have made Domino a part of their life, but they may not have made consumption a part of their life.'' Nevertheless, she said, the Domino reader may not be buying now, ''but she is the consumer of the future.'' Conde Nast, she suggested, had severed ''another link to that emerging market of tomorrow.''
Domino's demise does not, in the end, sound a death knell for the girly aesthetic it promoted. It leaves a vacuum in the print media, to be sure, but on the Web, Ms. Angelotta, Ms. Meares, Ms. Royalty and their sisters all contribute to what Ms. Salzman, the trend spotter, would describe as a ''granular'' portfolio of ideas, ''you know, something by, for and about them, friend-to-friend stuff,'' she said. In other words, the blogs.
On Friday, Domino's offices were nearly all packed up. ''We did our serious drinking and packing all day Thursday,'' Ms. Needleman said. You could hear the sharp crackle of packing tape in the halls and the pop of bubbles in the wrapping; Chase Booth, the renovation editor, was handing around bottles of Stella Artois to the remaining staffers. Cynthia Kling, a contributing editor, paused on her way out the door and offered this epitaph.
''It's like that scene in 'Dinner at Eight,' '' she said, shrugging parka-clad shoulders, ''the part when the husband comes home and tells his wife he's lost his job. And she says something like, 'Darling, that's fabulous! All the best people are losing their jobs.' ''
Correction: February 19, 2009, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Feb. 5 about Domino magazine referred incorrectly to a decline in its advertising. For 2008, ad pages were down 4.5 percent compared with 2007; for the December-January 2008 issue, they were down 26 percent compared with the same issue in 2007. Ad pages were not down 26 percent for all of 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO SHELTER: Readers of Domino protested its demise last week. Above, Deborah Needleman, the editor, at home after the fold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
SHELTER MAKEOVER: Deborah Needleman, below, wanted to make a shelter magazine whose tone was chatty and instructive rather than dictatorial. In so doing, she captured an aesthetic, and a readership, that was emblematic of a fizzy, girlish moment in design. Domino's pages were filled with explicit advice, so readers could translate what they saw into their own homes. ''It's not Karl Lagerfeld's house, not totally unattainable,'' said one. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT, JUSTIN BERNHAUT
MAGAZINES, TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES AND WILLIAM P. O'DONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 AT HOME WITH A MAGAZINE: ''When Domino spoke, I listened,'' said Jamie Meares, 28, who bought extra copies for inspiration in decorating her 1950s bungalow in Raleigh, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); PETITIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); INTERIOR DECORATING (57%); CHRISTMAS (52%); LOTTERIES (51%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



171 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Living Without Furniture, Just in Case

BYLINE: By ABBY AGUIRRE

 BODY:
Willie and Cassandra Grace have lived in their Bronx apartment for more than two months but have acquired no furnishings. They view furniture as heavy objects they may have to move, expensive possessions with which they may have to part.
''The way it's going, I'm afraid to buy a bed,'' Mr. Grace, 53, said. 
On a recent weekday evening, they were relaxing in their living room on two plastic ice chests pushed together. A glass of water and a plastic container of potpourri sat atop the only other surface in the room, an ironing board. Their son, Camarii, 12, and daughter, Jamilah, 7, were in the next room, sitting on a mattress on the floor in the dark, watching ''Family Guy'' on a small TV.
About four months ago, they were all living in an apartment in Harlem that Ms. Grace, 47, had occupied for more than a decade. It was close to the children's school, the Children's Storefront, and their after-school program, at the Drew Hamilton Learning Center.
''We had a decent life,'' Ms. Grace said. ''Our furniture was big.''
Their financial affairs were manageable until July 2005. That was when the Hunts Point warehouse where Mr. Grace had worked for 22 years closed and their struggle to stay above water began.
Initially, they lived on Mr. Grace's unemployment payments and withdrawals from his already depleted 401(k). The fund was drained by October 2005.
Ms. Grace had found work as a substitute teacher. Mr. Grace, still receiving unemployment benefits, looked for work with increasing anxiety.
''I didn't feel knocked down when I got laid off,'' Mr. Grace said. ''I felt knocked down when I couldn't find another job.''
Just before Ms. Grace's teaching job ended for the summer, in May 2006, Mr. Grace began working at a warehouse in Chester, N.Y., more than an hour's drive from Harlem. It paid $8 an hour. Bills piled up over the summer, until Ms. Grace started teaching again in the fall.
In early 2007, Mr. Grace's car broke down, which, along with the high price of gas at the time, made work in Chester out of the question.
They stopped paying their $800-a-month rent.
That July, Ms. Grace found a permanent position as a dance instructor at a charter school, bringing in enough money over the summer to pay some of their bills, but not the rent. In the fall, she took out a $28,000 loan to send her older son, Sean Haythe, then 18, to college.
Last March, Ms. Grace tore a ligament in her ankle. She had an operation, but could no longer teach. With Mr. Grace still unemployed, the family was left to live on Ms. Grace's disability payments, $626 a month.
By September, they owed about $15,200 in back rent, but a housing-court judge lowered their arrears to $9,000. They were nevertheless evicted. Without money to move or store their things, they left them behind and went to a homeless shelter for families in Brooklyn.
The following month, Mr. Grace got a job at Access-a-Ride, paying about $1,600 a month after taxes, and Ms. Grace was approved for long-term disability, about $1,700 a month. But they did not have enough money to secure a new apartment.
The Children's Aid Society, which runs the Drew Hamilton Learning Center and is one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, drew $2,290 from the fund to cover the first month's rent and security deposit for their new apartment. It also supplied the family with $480 in coupons for food and clothing.
Rather than furnish their apartment, the Graces have been paying off the $9,000 they owe their former landlord. They are reluctant to get comfortable, Mr. Grace said: ''It seems every time we see a little daylight, something blocks it out.''
That evening, in fact, Ms. Grace received a phone call from her son Sean, now a sophomore at Morehouse College in Atlanta. He had just received notice that because he owed $8,800 in tuition fees he could not pay, his meal plan would be cut off.
Ms. Grace recounted his words:
''Spoke to the dean. They don't have any money for me. So I don't know. They are going to start pulling classes from my schedule next week.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Grace family, in their apartment in the Bronx. From left, Camarii, 12
Willie, 53
Jamilah, 7
and Cassandra, 47. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/ neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730-0927. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget
 Previously recorded $6,728,161 Recorded Monday 44,367 Total $6,772,528 Last year to date $6,975,354 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (67%); DANCE EDUCATION (67%); US 401K PLANS (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



172 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM BEIJING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Learn Limits of Online Freedom as the Filter Tightens

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- It was meant to be a tongue-in-cheek alternative to the stultifying variety show beamed into hundreds of millions of living rooms on the eve of each Lunar New Year holiday. But the program, called ''Shanzhai,'' which roughly translates as ''knockoff'' or ''underground'' gala, was not to be.
After television stations withdrew their promised slots, the extravaganza's producers turned to the Internet. Those who tried to download the three-hour program on Jan. 25, however, were disappointed. The show had been quashed by censors, presumably for its mockery of a hallowed state-molded institution.
The incident has provoked howls among China's so-called netizens, who say it is another example of the Communist Party's heavy-handed oversight of the Web. Since early January, the government has been waging a decency campaign that has closed more than 1,500 Web sites found to contain sex, violence or ''vulgarity.'' Numerous other sites, including Google, have responded by removing any pages that might offend puritanical sensibilities. 
But indecency is often in the eye of the beholder. Last month, Bullog, a popular bastion for freewheeling bloggers, was shut down for what the authorities said were its ''large amounts of harmful information on current events,'' according to a notice posted by the site's founder, Luo Yonghao. When Mr. Luo briefly resuscitated the site on Sunday using an overseas server, it was blocked again.
Many people here believe that Bullog may have crossed a line by posting information about Charter 08, an online petition calling for democratic reforms. Organizers say the manifesto has garnered thousands of signatures since its introduction in December. Within the Chinese Internet firewall, it is now nearly impossible to find a copy.
While some see the monthlong crackdown as a portent of increasing government restrictions on electronic expression, those who follow China's evolving relationship with the Internet say it is too soon to tell.
''The authorities tighten the screws every few months, and some periods are tighter than others, so this is nothing new,'' said Xiao Qiang, director of the China Internet Project at the University of California, Berkeley.
But the wild card this time, Mr. Xiao and others say, is an economic downturn that has the potential to put the Communist Party's oversight of online content to a new test. For years, China has tried to strike a balance between allowing vigorous growth of the Web and preventing it from becoming a tool for undermining party rule. But popular anger against official corruption or ineptitude may become harder to contain in an era of economic pain.
Despite building one of the most technically sophisticated Internet firewalls, China still has a community of Web users that is among the most dynamic in the world. There are more than 70 million bloggers in China, and last month officials proudly announced that the number of Internet users had approached 300 million, more than in any other country.
The Web has become a forum for public activism that would be speedily suppressed, or widely ignored, if it occurred offline. In recent months, a spate of vigilante campaigns have been waged against low-level officials accused of corruption or unseemly behavior.
In one notable case in December, an ostensibly harmless photograph of Zhou Jiugeng, a Nanjing housing official, found its way onto the Web. Sharp-eyed bloggers could not help noticing the $15,000 Swiss watch on his wrist and the $22-a-pack cigarettes on the table in front of him. Two weeks later, Mr. Zhou was fired after investigators determined that he had led an improbably lavish lifestyle for a modestly salaried civil servant.
Two weeks earlier, a Communist Party official in Shenzhen resigned after he was accused of abusing an 11-year-old girl in a restaurant bathroom. What tripped him up was a security camera video, widely circulated online, that showed him waving off the girl's distraught family as he taunted them with his lofty rank.
Then there is the case of a Wenzhou government delegation whose publicly financed junket to Las Vegas, Niagara Falls and Vancouver was exposed by a blogger who found a bag of incriminating receipts on a Shanghai subway. After the documents were published on the Web in December, two top officials were ousted from their jobs; the other nine travelers were forced to write self-criticism essays.
These and a score of other incidents have convinced commentators like Ai Weiwei that the Internet will pave the way to a new era of free speech and democracy. ''As long as people care about society's problems, they will go to the Web to look for information,'' he said.
An artist who is one of China's most widely read bloggers, Mr. Ai helped inspire a surge of populist support for Yang Jia, an unemployed 28-year-old convicted of killing six police officers in Shanghai. Although he was executed in November, Mr. Yang gained considerable public sympathy after Mr. Ai and other bloggers highlighted the abuse Mr. Yang said he had suffered at the hands of the police before his murderous rampage.
Mr. Ai acknowledged that the government's noose would tighten if public unrest grew, but he insisted that any attempt to strengthen Internet restrictions would backfire. ''Clamping down will only produce more of an outcry for democracy,'' he said.
The government is well positioned to prevent that outcry from growing too voluble. Although imperfect, its weapons include a firewall that effectively blocks foreign Web sites by groups like Amnesty International and Falun Gong, and a number of Chinese-language media sites in Taiwan, to name a few. Algorithms weed out postings that include words like ''democracy,'' ''Dalai Lama'' or ''Tiananmen massacre.'' When those fail, the legions of censors employed by privately owned Web sites are ready to step into the breach.
Then there are the untold thousands of paid commentators who pose as ordinary Web users to counter criticism of the government. Known derisively as 50 Cent Party members, these shapers of public opinion are often paid a small sum, 50 Chinese cents, for every posting.
Speaking at a media forum in Beijing last week, Liu Zhengrong, a top official in China's Internet affairs bureau, warned his colleagues to be vigilant in the coming year, which will include the 20th anniversary of the crackdown in Tiananmen Square and the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising that led to the Dalai Lama's exile.
''You have to check the channels one by one, the programs one by one, the pages one by one,'' he said, according to Southern Weekend, a newspaper known for its investigative reporting. ''You must not miss any step. You must not leave any unchecked corners.''
Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong's Journalism and Media Studies Center, has no illusions about the Internet as a vehicle for political reform. The Web may be a hurly-burly of opinion and criticism, she said, but the moment that participants talk about organizing, the conversation -- and the site -- are shut down.
''All this Internet discourse has not brought China closer to democracy than it was 10 years ago,'' said Professor MacKinnon, whose expertise includes Chinese bloggers and Internet censorship.
In some ways, she said, the government uses the Internet as a pressure valve that allows aggrieved citizens to blow off steam before their fury comes to a head.
''One can make the argument that the Internet enables the Communist Party to remain in power longer because it provides a space for people to air grievances without allowing real change,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Internet cafe in Shanghai. With almost 300 million Internet users, China has tried to strike a balance between allowing vigorous growth of the Web and preventing it from becoming a tool for undermining Communist Party rule. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CENSORSHIP (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); FIREWALLS (75%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); PETITIONS (63%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



173 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: The Make or Break Season

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
ONCE upon a time, American fashion was a fickle, brutal business for young designers.
Newcomers would arrive to great fanfare and then disappear in a few seasons. To reverse this pattern, the industry came together five years ago to create a more welcoming environment. Magazines, stores and trade groups began to nourish and heavily promote a new generation of potential Calvin Kleins and Oscar de la Rentas, handing out prizes, sponsorships and mentoring that made it hard for just about anyone to fail. It is no small measure of their success that New York Fashion Week has become a haven for instantly famous unknowns.
Of the more than 200 fashion labels that will begin showing their fall collections in New York next week, at least half came into existence only in the last decade. A full quarter of them are less than five years old. This season alone, during the worst economic environment in decades, no fewer than 10 new companies are vying for fashion's spotlight.
The age of the young designer, however, may be coming to an end. 
As stores reduce orders by 20 percent or more for fall, the toll on small fashion businesses, many without independent financial backing, is likely to be severe. In the last month, two promising designers lost the support of their investors and face uncertain futures: Peter Som, who makes ladylike sportswear; and the Obedient Sons and Daughters collections, quirky takes on tailored clothes made by the husband-and-wife team Swaim and Christina Hutson.
And among designers, there is fear that the fallout will be far worse after the shows, once orders for fall clothes are confirmed. The more stores that close, the more designers will follow.
''To be honest, we're writing this whole year off,'' said Andrew Buckler, the designer of a seven-year-old collection called Buckler. ''We're just trying to survive.''
Like most of those companies started in the last decade, Buckler is small, with sales less than $10 million. But the line, originally based on jeans, was growing; and two years ago, Mr. Buckler sold a minority of his business to a Turkish manufacturing company, Hey Group. The investment enabled him to open four stores, including two in Manhattan, and to have runway shows for a collection that looks like weekend wear for James Bond.
Six months ago, the Hey company said it would pull back its financing.
''We knew things were getting really tough out there,'' Mr. Buckler said. ''But it's still a bitter pill to swallow.''
Things began to look bleak, he said, when some of the 30 small stores around the country that carry Buckler $600 military jackets and $116 knitted polos were taking longer to pay for their orders. Payments that once arrived within 30 days took 60 days, then 90 days to collect. Worse, some of the stores, like Brick Lane, in Los Angeles, went out of business, leaving Mr. Buckler with clothes that had been ordered and produced but never paid for. He had to lay off about a third of his 30 staff members.
For his fall collection, he decided to cut back to the bare bones, condensing the number of styles by half and focusing on jeans and underwear and woven shirts -- comparatively inexpensive items that have sold well in the past. To save costs, he plans an informal presentation at his store on Grand Street, instead of on the runways in Bryant Park, where even a small show can cost $100,000 for the designer who pays for the space, hair, makeup, models and, of course, the clothes. At least Mr. Buckler has his own stores to sell the clothes, but going forward, he said, ''It's going to be a lot more about relying on personality and experience, instead of cash.''
In the days before Fashion Week, which begins Feb. 13, a similar story has been playing out in showrooms around the city, as designers adapt to a new reality, one in which talking about new clothes means talking about the new economy. You could sense the dread at a meeting last month between show producers and newspaper reporters to discuss the recession's impact on Fashion Week, when Paul Wilmot, a leading industry publicist, said, ''We need to come up with talking points!''
He already knows the question: Who can afford these clothes?
Flora Gill and Alexa Adams have received enthusiastic attention from retailers since they started Ohne Titel in 2006, but so far only a few stores have carried their eclectic knits and architectural suits, which cost $500 to $3,000. Now buyers are even more hesitant to commit to new talent, so the designers are lowering some prices and moving their dress production from Italy to New York. Even so, Stephen Courter, a partner in the business, sees a silver lining. ''I think we are still so small, with lower overhead than the established labels, that we have less to lose,'' he said.
What is amazing is how often designers have taken matters into their own scrappy hands.
Brian Reyes, who started his line of modern-looking glamour clothes in 2005, will share a patternmaker with Lyn Devon, a designer of socialite clothes, and he plans to split the cost of a space in Paris to meet with retailers next month with other designers. If one $1,600 brown cashmere coat in the Duckie Brown fall collection, a cool men's wear line designed by Steven Cox and Daniel Silver, looks familiar, that's because the designers had a bolt of the $80-a-yard fabric left over from three or four years ago.
Others are bringing back their greatest hits, which may sound odd coming from designers still wet behind the ears. Along one wall of Tim Hamilton's office on Chrystie Street is a rack of clothes he calls the ''redux collection,'' made up of dyed and washed oxford shirts with mother-of-pearl buttons and chunky thermal sweaters that are priced at least $100 less than new designs, which can cost $350 or more. His label is just over two years old.
''I was against it when I started,'' Mr. Hamilton said, ''but if you go to the Ann Demeulemeester showroom in Paris, even they have a rack of basics.''
LISA MAYOCK and Sophie Buhai, who call their five-year-old women's line Vena Cava, are among the most recent winners of a prize, created in 2003 by the Council of Fashion Designers of America and Vogue, specifically to help young labels survive. The fund comes with a cash award and, more important, access to the advice of key industry executives and a lot more attention from the news media. Still, the designers are not expecting this to be a banner year, so they are focused on small ideas for now -- scheduling trunk shows for their $400 to $600 dresses and starting a blog.
''It seems like this might not be the best time to actively grow our sales,'' Ms. Mayock said. ''So we're focusing on building the idea of our brand. We're trying to plan ways to build, just in case we do end up getting stock back from doors that go out of business or that do not honor their orders.''
In their favor, most of these labels have low overhead. Some work out of their apartments and employ interns from fashion schools to sew sequins and mail show invitations, and a small collection can be made for under $25,000, as long as the fabrics are basic. The problems come when dealing with stores and factories and all the other companies that make up the fashion food chain that have already suffered a loss of business, and therefore are less willing to work with small designers.
''It's almost like we've started from square one with factories we've been working with for a couple of years now,'' said Jeff Halmos, one half of the designer duo behind Shipley & Halmos, a line of geeky-preppy sportswear cited by GQ this month as one of the six new men's labels you must know.
The show season is a critical moment for any designer. They are in the midst of delivering spring clothes to stores, usually with only a small amount paid up front, at the same time they are taking orders for fall, which can require a substantial deposit to their factories and fabric suppliers, plus the cost of samples and a show. On top of this, Mr. Halmos has fielded calls from at least five stores that have tried to cancel their spring orders.
''It's now more of a cash-flow issue than about the bottom line,'' he said. ''There is a lot up in the air, and no one really knows what is going to happen. But we can't let that dictate how we're going to run our business.''
When LFT, a 17,000-square-foot designer store in Dallas, closed in November, Duckie Brown was left with a substantial order that had been produced but not yet delivered. Mr. Silver said he had received a 30 percent deposit from the store but was left with an office full of jackets and sweaters. ''We cannot afford to make clothing that people cannot afford to pay for,'' he said.
This is the first season Mr. Silver could recall when raising money was such an issue. Normally, the cost of Duckie Brown's shows is covered by sponsors -- companies willing to pay to have their products featured backstage on the runway, like Florsheim, for which Duckie Brown has created a new collection. That said, Mr. Cox landed another one on Friday, when McDonald's was confirmed as a sponsor, in exchange for promoting its McCafe coffee products backstage. (Mr. Cox, growing up in London, worked at a McDonald's from the age of 15 to 18, so his experience will appear as a ''McStory'' in the program for the show.)
''In these difficult times, aren't we lucky?'' Mr. Silver said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IS TALENT ENOUGH?: From left, Daniel Silver and Steven Cox of Duckie Brown
Lisa Mayock of Vena Cava
Andrew Buckler
Sophie Buhai.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 COPING: Despite great press, Alexa Adams, above left, and Flora Gill of Ohne Titel have struggled. Tim Hamilton, left, fitting a fall look, is tightening his new collection.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



174 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay Limits Seek To Alter Corporate Culture

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and VIKAS BAJAJ; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In announcing executive pay limits on Wednesday, President Obama is trying to hold the financial industry accountable to taxpayers while aiming to change an entrenched corporate culture that endorses outsize bonuses and perks that often bear little relationship to corporate performance.
Mr. Obama also needs to deflect a growing populist outrage over sky-high pay among the banks and other companies now on the public dole. His announcement comes just days before the administration is expected to unveil a new strategy -- and possibly request more money from Congress -- to guarantee or buy outright hundreds of billions of dollars in bad assets held by banks.
The new rules would set a $500,000 cap on cash compensation for the most senior executives, curtail severance pay when top executives left a company, restrict cashing in on stock incentives until government assistance was repaid and prod corporate boards to closely scrutinize luxury perquisites like private jets and country club memberships.
The plan's effectiveness in curbing executive pay may not be known for years, however. Past administrations have also been critical of excessive pay, but corporate executives have found ingenious ways around limits, often hiring consultants to create new forms of compensation. 
Even the new rules allow companies some leeway. While giving shareholders a say in bonuses above the cap and restricting when stock incentives can be cashed in, the rules do not place limits on the size of such awards, which have become the biggest part of many compensation packages. In addition, the toughest new rules apply only to large companies seeking government assistance to survive.
They do not apply to the more than 350 institutions that have already received bailout funds, only to those that seek aid under the next phase of the bailout program. And companies that seek aid but do not need exceptional government assistance can waive the $500,000 pay cap, as long as they submit their executive pay policies to a nonbinding shareholder vote.
Still, the rules represent the most comprehensive effort to curb compensation. ''This is America,'' Mr. Obama said on Wednesday. ''We don't disparage wealth. We don't begrudge anybody for achieving success. And we believe that success should be rewarded. But what gets people upset -- and rightfully so -- are executives being rewarded for failure. Especially when those rewards are subsidized by U.S. taxpayers.''
In 2007, the latest year that figures are available, the largest participants in the bailout program paid their chief executives an average compensation of $11 million, including salary, bonus and benefits. Of that amount, according to a review by Equilar, an executive compensation firm, only about $844,000 was cash salary. About $2.5 million was in a cash bonus, with the bulk -- $7.4 million -- in stock awards, and the remainder in benefits and perks.
If banks return to the government for more money, the new rules would require a reduction in pay, but not in stock awards, though these would be subject to a non-binding vote of the shareholders and would be in the form of long-term incentives because of restrictions on when they could be cashed in.
The plan will most likely force companies to think twice before coming to Washington for a handout, and it is certain to nudge them to return taxpayer loans more quickly.
On Wednesday, for instance, David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs, which received $10 billion from the Treasury Department, told analysts that his firm wanted to repay the government as quickly as feasible to ''be under less scrutiny and under less pressure,'' according to Bloomberg News.
The Financial Services Roundtable, which lobbies on behalf of banks and other financial institutions, said that giving shareholders a vote on pay could discourage companies from seeking aid.
The rules would not prohibit a lower-level executive, like a stock trader or investment banker, from continuing to receive tens of millions of dollars in pay. Officials also emphasized that several of the proposals would not be made final until after public comments had been considered.
Still, investor groups, union leaders and lawmakers in both parties embraced the proposal.
''There is absolutely no reason why hard-working American taxpayers should be financing, directly or indirectly, excessive compensation for corporate executives whose decisions, in many cases, have crippled their firms and weakened the broader economy,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Senate banking committee.
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader, said that pay limits would be more equitable for rank-and-file taxpayers. ''If anyone is looking for the taxpayer to help bail their company out,'' he said, ''these types of executive pay caps are appropriate.''
Officials said that the larger goal of the proposal was to make the boards of major corporations across a wide range of industries award pay packages more consistent with corporate earnings.
Appearing with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, the architect of the plan, Mr. Obama repeated a theme that he began last week of attacking Wall Street for its excessive compensation.
''For top executives to award themselves these kinds of compensation packages in the midst of this economic crisis is not only in bad taste, it's a bad strategy, and I will not tolerate it as president,'' Mr. Obama said. He said such pay is ''exactly the kind of disregard for the costs and consequences of their actions that brought about this crisis -- a culture of narrow self-interest and short-term gain at the expense of everything else.''
During the Bush administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted new rules promoting better public disclosure of executive compensation as a way to discourage pay not tied to performance. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. also criticized excessive pay as a factor contributing to the crisis on Wall Street and tried to impose some limits on banks receiving bailout funds.
But none of that put a significant dent in executive pay. A recent study by Equilar, a compensation research firm, found that the chief executives of the 10 largest financial services firms in a survey of 200 companies with revenue of at least $6.5 billion were awarded a total of $320 million last year, even though the companies had mortgage-related losses of $55 billion.
Some companies may not find the new pay curbs all that burdensome. The plan does not limit the size of bonuses that can take the form of restricted stock above the $500,000 cap -- though companies would have to give shareholders a nonbinding vote on such awards.
Indeed, troubled financial institutions are already giving executives significant sums of restricted stock -- shares that are locked up for years and can be sold only under specified conditions -- in part because they are trying to preserve cash. Alan Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates, a Wall Street pay consulting firm, said that in some cases, restricted stock was making up 60 percent of executives' total compensation.
Mr. Johnson said the new restrictions could make it harder for the government to resuscitate ailing firms by making it harder for them to retain and recruit talented executives.
The plan does not appear to prohibit a financial institution from sponsoring a major golf tournament that most of its executives attend as part of the company's marketing strategy. At a White House briefing, senior officials repeatedly declined to answer whether the plan would prohibit a company like Citigroup from paying $400 million to have its name on a baseball stadium. It is also unclear whether lucrative pension plans would be banned.
The administration will have to determine how broadly to apply the most severe restrictions as the TARP program is revised. If the new strategy envisions that many banks will be eligible for assistance, as they have in the past, then the less restrictive pay rules would apply to them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, wants scrutiny of corporate perks, like private jets. Page B1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, with President Obama, who said outsize compensation was ''in bad taste.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) CHARTS: PUTTING A CAP ON COMPENSATION: The Obama administration has proposed restricting executive compensation at the largest companies that seek government assistance to avoid failing. Among the highlights, the proposal: Limits annual executive salary to $500,000, except for restricted stock. That stock cannot be sold until the government investments have been repaid or until a company's fiscal condition is stable. Requires companies to disclose executive compensation goals and to submit them to shareholders for nonbinding votes of approval. Requires companies to recover compensation to any of their top 25 executives if they are found to have lied on financial statements. Prohibits golden parachutes for the top 10 executives and limits the next 25 to one year's pay. Requires boards to approve spending money on nonessential services, including planes, office renovations, parties, conferences and corporate retreats. (pg.B1)
 WHAT BELT-TIGHTENING WOULD DO: The Obama administration's proposal to cap salaries, particularly at companies that receive large federal bailouts, could significantly affect the pay of top executives. Here are examples for companies that have received large bailouts in the past. Figures are for 2007, the latest for which data is available. (Source: Equilar (2007 compensation)) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BONUS PAY (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (53%); CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011



175 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Icelandic Firm Seeks Creditor Protection

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Baugur, an Icelandic holding company with stakes in a wide range of British retailers, filed for creditor protection on Wednesday after talks with its biggest lender broke down. 
 The company, which is privately held, said it had applied in a Reykjavik court to enter ''into a moratorium process,'' which is similar to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing in the United States, to protect its assets. The filing came after Landsbanki Islands, an Icelandic bank seized by the government last year, ended discussions on Tuesday about a potential restructuring. 
 Baugur and its founder, Jon Asgeir Johannesson, became symbols for the boom and rapid decline of Iceland's economy. The company's many acquisitions far beyond its home market turned it from a local discount supermarket chain into a global retail group but also saddled it with an unmanageable debt burden. 
 Baugur's troubles also call into question the future of the retailers, most of them British, in which it invested. The retailing sector in Britain is already suffering from declining consumer spending as part of the global recession.
 Companies linked to Baugur employ 50,000 people in more than 3,500 British retail outlets, including those of Goldsmiths, a jeweler; Iceland, a frozen food chain; and Coast and Jane Norman, women's clothing chains. Baugur also owns 35 percent of House of Fraser, a British department store chain.
 Mr. Johannesson, who with his father founded Baugur 20 years ago, was still eager to expand as recently as last summer, just months before Iceland's banks collapsed. In August, he reaffirmed his interest in buying Saks, the American high-end fashion chain, which he said Baugur could afford after selling some assets. 
 Mr. Johannesson, known for his taste for expensive wines and private jets, is one of a handful of Icelandic billionaires who represented Iceland and its 300,000 people in the global business arena. 
 But Baugur's recent problems have hurt his image at home, where people have demonstrated in front of Parliament, enraged that the government did not do more to avert the crisis, and business executives and lawmakers blame each other for their country's problems. 
 The financial crisis hit Iceland especially hard after banks and some individuals overextended themselves. In the ensuing currency collapse, banks failed, causing many Icelanders to lose their jobs and life savings. 
 The government was pushed to seek a rescue from the International Monetary Fund. And this month, the coalition government itself collapsed.
 Concerns about Baugur's financing emerged toward the end of last year when it dropped a bid for the British men's wear retailer Moss Brothers and Iceland started to nationalize the heavily leveraged banks that financed Baugur's acquisitions.
 Some analysts said many of Baugur's British assets were likely to find buyers despite the economic downturn.
 Potential buyers include Alchemy Partners, a London specialist in distressed debt, and Tom Hunter, an investor with an interest in retail assets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among Baugur's holdings are the British chain House of Fraser, the jeweler Goldsmiths and women's clothing retailers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MEN (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); JEWELRY (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (65%); MEN'S CLOTHING (63%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: BAUGUR GROUP HF (90%); HOUSE OF FRASER LTD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522294 SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (90%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) ICELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



176 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: At the Cleaners, One Woman Seeks Gender Equality

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
For women across New York City and beyond, it basically amounts to being taken to the cleaners. Women's shirts often cost much more to launder than men's, even if they are smaller and made of the same cloth. 
 Many women grudgingly accept the higher prices, much as they accept the perennial lack of pockets in their pants and the lengthier lines outside their restrooms. But not Janet Floyd, a 44-year-old mother, community volunteer and newly minted missionary for gender equality in the wash place. 
 Ms. Floyd's crusade began in November, when, she said, she and her husband brought their nearly identical blue Brooks Brothers oxfords to be laundered at Best Cleaners in Chelsea. The shirts came back clean, but Ms. Floyd discovered that hers cost $8.75, his $7. 
 ''We had the same shirts -- I paid more and his was larger,'' recalled Ms. Floyd, who wears a size 4 petite (her husband, Joe, wears a 15.5-inch neck and 33-inch sleeve). ''That's what was so infuriating.''
 Ms. Floyd said that when she called the cleaners to inquire, she was told that despite her request for laundering, her shirt had been dry cleaned, which is more expensive, because Best does not launder women's shirts. The man who answered the phone at Best on Monday confirmed that policy, but the prices he quoted ($5.50 to dry clean a woman's shirt, $1.75 to launder a man's) were lower than Ms. Floyd paid, perhaps because she had her shirts hand-pressed.
 Whatever the explanation, Ms. Floyd was incensed, and mentioned her pique at a cocktail party. ''That's so true,'' a friend said of the price discrepancy. ''But everybody's too busy to do something about it.'' 
 Not Ms. Floyd, who has an economics degree, has served on the board of the New York Coalition for Healthy School Food, and, with her two children off to college, recently started her own market-research firm. Going back to work would mean more trips to the cleaners, and she hated the idea of paying more than a man. 
 So she began calling cleaners all over Manhattan -- 50 over 18 days. She made lists and charts of what they charged for laundering and dry cleaning men's and women's shirts and pants. Then she analyzed the results, which she has posted on her Web site, www.floydadvisory.com. 
 Women and men paid more or less the same for dry cleaning, Ms. Floyd discovered, but for laundering, men paid an average of $2.86 and women $4.95. Of the 50 places surveyed, 8 did not launder women's shirts at all, and 9 charged the same regardless of the owner's gender.
 ''I was so amazed by this,'' Ms. Floyd said. ''What is confusing is that the market wouldn't correct itself, with women saying 'I'm not going to pay for this.' ''
 Asked to explain the price discrepancy, several launderers cited the size and shape of their industrial pressing machines. They were built for men's shirts, they said, explaining that the smaller, tapered women's garments were often ill-fitted for the big, manly presses or were otherwise too delicate. That meant hand-pressing, which is more labor-intensive.
 ''They won't fit the machine; they would rip,'' said a woman at Alpian's Garment Care in Midtown East, where it costs $9 to launder a woman's shirt, $2.75 a man's.
 New York's city code prohibits gender-based pricing, and in 1998, the City Council passed a bill banning ''the public display of discriminatory pricing based on gender.'' But nothing prevents cleaners from charging different amounts for shirts that require different amounts of work, which is how they typically explain the seemingly gender-based price gaps. 
 Last year, the city's Department of Consumer Affairs issued 12 gender-pricing violations, according to a spokeswoman, who said that ''at least three'' went to dry cleaners (the others were mostly hair and nail salons, perhaps Ms. Floyd's next project, though with nails, it is often men who get charged more). 
 Unsatisfied by the hand-pressing explanation, Ms. Floyd set out to find a unisex pressing machine. Sure enough, Unipress Corporation in Tampa, Fla., sells such a machine for $21,500, less than half the $50,000 it charges for the man-sized machines. 
 But Tom Stites, the company's sales manager, said the unisex machine pressed about 30 pieces an hour, whether frilly blouses or extra-large button-downs, while the more typical industrial press machines could do 100 per hour. Still, he said, demand for the unisex machine was growing. 
 ''They give all these excuses, but the machines are out there,'' Ms. Floyd said.
 In the meantime, she has been taking her shirts to London Cleaners on East 33rd Street, five blocks from her home. For hand-pressing, which the Floyds prefer, they charge her -- and her husband -- $7 a shirt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Floyd with the two shirts -- hers and her husband's -- that inspired her study of the price differences of laundering.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



177 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER BROOKLYN FLEA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Come Shop in Their Backyard

BYLINE: By MIKE ALBO

 BODY:
IF you grew up in America and weren't raised as, say, a Branch Davidian, chances are you played ''store'' with your friends. You set up shop in the backyard and sold things for a common, agreed-upon currency: ''Hello ma'am, as you can see, I have fresh sassafras leaves and fine red dirt! That will be five acorn tops! Thank you very much and have a nice day!''
 The work was hard and satisfying, everyone was affable, and items seemed to be worth their price. 
 Lately, playing ''store'' isn't so much fun. Merchants are freaked out, zombie shoppers stampede over one another to get at marked-down plasma TVs, and our dollar is starting to look about as valuable as an acorn top. 
 Brooklyn Flea, a well-curated, optimistic weekend market in Dumbo, may help restore your faith in capitalism's simpler pleasures. When I was there last weekend, I found myself stopping at tables, perusing the huge range of vintage, antique and handcrafted goods, and having warm, goofy exchanges with storekeepers just as I did when I was a major retail mogul in my backyard -- a Dov Charney in Toughskins. 
 Brooklyn Flea started up last spring, spending the warmer months on an outdoor lot at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Fort Greene. (It will return there in April.) For winter, the market has moved indoors into two big ground-level spaces in Dumbo. At 79 Front Street, there is vintage clothing and furniture; and now, at 81 Front Street, there is food and newly-made handicrafts, as well as some vintage and antique items. 
 When I visited, the new space was having its ''soft opening,'' but the giant unfinished room was already full of curious shoppers. Some were sipping hot chocolate, available for $3 near the door. A nerdy bespectacled D.J. (from the record shop Halcyon down the street) was spinning. Several patrons were bobbing to the beat as if they didn't care that their 401(k)s had shrunk to the size of a sparrow's head.
 Goods were proudly arranged on tables, with the expectant (and sometimes bored) faces of shopkeepers above them. A.S.I.S. (Angela Spencer's Irresistible Stuff) offered knit mohair hats for $60 and Luv x 1 necklaces -- polished lumps of rose quartz enclosed in crocheted netting -- for $36. I loved the silk-screened T-shirts offered by Flux Productions: soft pima and organic cotton shirts ($35) and hoodies ($60) with haunting prints of branches, feathers or an expanse of undulating waves. 
 Elma Blint sold beautifully simple jewelry, including a silver bracelet in an organic driftwood shape for $225. Maybe similar merchandise is available at any Urban Outfitters, but here, displayed humbly on rickety card tables, merchandise felt genuine, especially when its creators were standing there, smiling at you.
 This wasn't awkward. All that overproduced window dressing and desperate salesmanship that tends to spook cautious customers like me has been stripped away here, and shopper and merchant can have a more mellow, casual exchange. Instead of being sullen and shy, I found myself chatting up almost every vendor.
 Joseph Sipos, a vintage clothing dealer, told me that a bright red crocheted shirt and matching vest hanging on a dress form in his section had just been used in a Woody Allen film. Lois Aronow briefly explained the glazing technique she uses to make the lovely cracked surfaces of her ''reticulated'' ceramic bowls and cups. David Sokosh, who restores antique clocks, told me that a beautiful black table clock he displayed ($275) was made around the turn of the century at the old Ansonia factory in Park Slope, once one of the largest clock factories in the world. 
 Even if I didn't buy a thing, I took cards, learned about craftsmanship and remembered names: three crucial triumphs of promotion for a vendor here that juggernaut brands try to achieve by spending $3 million for 30 seconds of Super Bowl airtime. 
 Eric Demby started the Brooklyn Flea with his business partner, Jonathan Butler, who is behind the popular Brooklyn real estate blog, Brownstoner. Mr. Demby manages the market's day-to-day operations and keeps it from becoming one of those run-of-the-mill street fairs that can be found all over the city (tube socks, bad dance music, Indian print blouses).
 Culling from applicants, he handpicks vintage vendors with good, reasonably priced merchandise and artisans who make quality work, then throws in a couple of wild cards to add to the atmosphere -- like McClure's Pickles, for example, which offers jars of pickles ($10) and relish ($5) in spicy or garlic-dill. 
 Every week the market has a live D.J., and a guest-curated ''corner.'' (Next weekend's will be put together by the Web site DailyCandy). There is even a weekly scavenger hunt.
 The result makes this more of a weekend hangout than a retail zone. You can find a teak shelving unit or an expertly reupholstered pair of chairs, but there are also plenty of supercheap items around if you just want to stroll and gossip with a friend.
 Iconic Postcards had its aged selections neatly filed in long boxes and organized by subject (shopping centers, sponges, spider webs) for $3 each. Along with some eye-catching jewelry, Blue Canary Vintage had a pile of old bubble-gum trading cards for $3 each, including New Kids on the Block.
 IF, for the last several years, you have felt you were being gaslighted by the preposterous price of secondhand clothing, the offerings here will help ground you. In the vintage wing, I found a handsome slim-fitting military jacket for $55. Jean-Paul Buthier, the vendor, owns a shop called Rue St. Denis in the East Village. The jacket was a soft green wool and looked similar to one I have seen at A.P.C. for 700,000 acorn tops. 
 I found equally gorgeous stock nearby at Marilyn Hitchcock's booth: a suede corset for $40, French Bakelite bracelets for $40 each, vintage scarves for $5. I made a mental note to contact her if I ever decide to change genders.
 Brooklyn Flea adds some much-needed fizz to this neighborhood. It's near West Elm, Starbucks and a host of precious shops that proliferated during the area's recent real estate boom. The market almost seems like Dumbo's apologetic gesture for its luxury binge. The artists and scrappier merchants who were driven out of their lofts now come back here to sell their wares.
 Unlike the glossy stores that surround it, Brooklyn Flea helps you feel more at ease about our dicey economy. There is a sense of community here that doesn't exist in the meatpacking district or Williamsburg or Bleecker Street or any store with snobby employees sitting drolly behind their desks and their bangs and hating you when you walk in. If the econo-bust gets worse, I hope this is what thrives: local artisans, cheaper prices, people talking, pickles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT BROOKLYN FLEA: Papushka Vintage's 1960s costume jewelry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PLAYING STORE: Clockwise from top: Robert Goldstrom, with his Williamsburg Savings Bank oil
Keavy Lambeth of Kumquat Cupcakery
Susan Goldsweigh and a Sage Antiques silhouette
Severely Vintage wares
David Sokosh with an Ansonia clock, circa 1880.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E4) CHART: Brooklyn Flea: 76 and 81 Front Street (Washington Street), Dumbo
 brooklynflea.com. STUFF! Brooklyn's popular weekend market has migrated to Dumbo for the winter, offering tables full of clothes, furniture, jewelry and doodads -- both vintage and newly handcrafted. STUFFED Have a hot chocolate for $3 and sample pickles, pupusas and blondies while you peruse. Then for brunch, head to nearby Dumbo institutions like Grimaldi's or Superfine. NOT STUFFY The artisans and vintage dealers are friendly and approachable -- and most of them have Web sites that are linked to the Brooklyn Flea home page. Come later in the day and you may be able to strike a deal.(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (87%); MUSIC STORES (73%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); COTTON FABRICS (69%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (54%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: DOV CHARNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



178 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Resilient in Tough Times

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
As the recession delivers stinging blows to many small businesses, some ventures -- the ones owned and operated by families -- may be in a unique position to survive and even prosper. 
 Family businesses often have been around for a generation or more, giving them the experience of riding out economic ups and downs. And they have another advantage that sole proprietorships do not have.
 ''They can have the strength of the entire family, meaning all sorts of thinking and fiscal resources,'' said Jeffrey A. Miller, a family business consultant based in Coral Cables, Fla. ''There may be a consolidated family ethic, sometimes traceable for hundreds of years, which in tough times will help them hold steadier than businesses where people aren't related.'' 
 Of the nation's seven million or so businesses employing 100 or fewer workers, about 20 percent are owned and operated by more than one family member, said Joseph H. Astrachan, executive director of the Cox Family Enterprise Center at Kennesaw University in Atlanta. 
 One of those businesses is the Knight family's 500-acre Smiling Hill Farm, located near Portland, Me., that sells dairy and lumber products. Six 12th-generation Knight siblings in their 40s and 50s -- including two sets of fraternal twins -- own and manage the farm. Four members of the 13th generation also work there. 
 Last year's sales were down about 23 percent from 2007, said Warren Knight, one of the owners. ''In challenging times, the history is what keeps you going,'' Mr. Knight said. ''You don't want to be the generation that failed,'' adding, ''Our father, Roger Knight, always says the last crop we raise will be asphalt.'' 
 Mr. Knight's father recently took each sibling aside to relate cautionary Great Depression stories that his father and grandfather had told him. ''At first I listened politely and told my father he was watching too much television,'' Mr. Knight recalled. ''But he was doing what we all are -- drawing on accumulated knowledge and experience.'' 
 As Mr. Miller sees it, people who have always existed with a family business seeing to their needs sometimes relate to it as a living entity. 
 Penny Murphy, the third-generation owner of Pioneer Linens -- a luxury linen retailer in West Palm Beach, Fla., that she operates with her son, daughter, and 25 employees -- said that she considered the company an ''imaginary friend.'' 
 At the El Dorado Furniture chain in South Florida, nearly 20 members of the Capo family work with about 700 nonfamily employees. Six Capo brothers, 39 to 60, own and manage the company started by their father, with whom they fled Cuba. Any family member who wants furniture for personal use must pay wholesale costs plus shipping and delivery, the chain's chief information officer, Jesus Capo, said. ''We consider the business a nina linda -- we don't touch it,'' he said, using the Spanish phrase for pretty little girl. 
 Alan L. Carsrud, executive director of the Global Entrepreneurship Center at Florida International University in Miami, described family ventures as ''the totem pole that the family dances around.'' And in hard times, he said, they often have the advantage of minimal debt because they shunned borrowing in good times. ''It's the family wealth,'' he said. ''You've put everything at risk if you borrow against it.''
 With sales of $140 million last year, down from $167 million in 2007, the Capos will soon open an 11th store that they believe will position El Dorado for a real estate upturn. The construction costs exceed $10 million -- all coming from the company's savings, not loans, Mr. Capo said. ''We've always had the refugee mentality that you don't know if everything will be taken away tomorrow.'' 
 At Smiling Hill Farm, the Knights have a line of credit, but hope not to tap it. ''When business was good, we were salting money away and waiting for the other shoe to drop,'' Mr. Knight said. ''Our parents instilled in us the perspective that good times don't last forever.'' 
 And while their intent is to not lay off workers or cut their pay, the Knight siblings are all now deferring some of their own compensation, Mr. Knight said.
 In tough times, family businesses can pull together in ways that ventures with unrelated workers may not do as easily. ''A family business can become like a turtle that pulls inward under its shell,'' said Patricia M. Cole, an associate professor of family business and family therapy at Nova Southeastern University in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
 Tom Juenemann, executive director of the Institute for Family-Owned Business in Portland, Me., agreed. ''In addition to reducing their pay, they can work more, or bring aboard family members with a vested interest in the business,'' he said. 
 In Washington, Pietro Polles is depending on his wife and children to help sustain his dream of running an Italian-style trattoria called Sorriso. 
 After retiring as an information manager at the World Bank, Mr. Polles said he studied cooking in Italy and opened Sorriso in 2004. Sales grew from the start, reaching $1.2 million in 2007. 
 But sales began to level off last March. After sales dropped sharply last fall, the family took action. 
 A departing assistant chef was not replaced, and Mr. Polles began working 12-hour days, cooking lunch and dinner seven days a week. Mr. Polles's son, Stefano, and daughter, Isabella, who had worked in Sorriso part time, deferred their education and careers to work full time -- she waits tables, he trained in Italy to make pizza. Their mother, Rose Marie Polles, a retired office manager at the International Monetary Fund, also began working full time as a hostess and fresh pasta maker. 
 At a meeting in October, the family and the restaurant's 11 nonfamily employees agreed that Mr. Polles and his son would work longer hours while the workers cut their workday by about an hour. ''I haven't let anyone go, which would only aggravate the bad economy, and everyone is equally important here,'' Mr. Polles said. 
 In some ventures, leadership can be complicated when family members assert themselves in ways that ordinary employees wouldn't. Kit Johnson, a family business consultant in Boca Raton, Fla., said that she counsels families in such situations to ''clarify their communication and make their conflict constructive.'' 
 Ms. Murphy, president of Pioneer Linens, hired Ms. Johnson to meet regularly with her and her 28-year-old son, Alan Murphy Jr., the company's vice president. They were disagreeing about issues including marketing and promotion expenditures for the yacht division that Mr. Murphy supervises. 
 And there are generational differences. ''Alan is a child of the '80s and '90s, completely computer-driven,'' Ms. Murphy said. ''He wants to get things done quickly, while I have to think them over. We work at different speeds.'' 
 The counseling is helping, Ms. Murphy said. ''We are learning to listen to each other.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Since business leveled off, Pietro Polles, owner and chef of Sorriso, an Italian restaurant in Washington, has his son and daughter working full time as well as his wife, Rose Marie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (66%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (63%); FURNITURE STORES (60%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



179 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FITNESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Dieting? Put Your Money Where Your Fat Is

BYLINE: By PAMELA WEILER GRAYSON

 BODY:
FOR Samwoo Ee, the first bet was just a warm-up.
 Mr. Ee, 30, worked at an Internet company in SoHo, and had been competing with a colleague to see who could lose more weight. But they had both stopped going to the gym because of long hours at the office. In search of more motivation, they turned up the pressure: they entered into a formal one-month wager to see who could cut the higher percentage of their body mass index. 
 ''It got pretty competitive,'' said Mr. Ee, who weighed 248 at the time. ''We used to do push-ups every hour in front of each other's cubicles. And he used to leave really good chocolate on my desk.''
 His co-worker, Daniel Fries, won the first month, after losing about 16 pounds to Mr. Ee's 10, and Mr. Ee paid him $20. 
 Then, Mr. Ee said, ''it got serious.'' 
 Six co-workers joined them in another weight-loss competition. ''I told them this was going to be dirty,'' Mr. Ee said. There were weekly weigh-ins by an outside record keeper. Mr. Ee finished second in that bet, after losing an additional four pounds. Along the way, Mr. Ee's officemates enjoyed taunting one another with comments like, ''Are you sure you want to eat that bagel?'' and ''Why don't you get a cheeseburger for lunch and I'll get a salad?'' 
 It was an eight-player example of a diet bet, in which those seeking to lose pounds give themselves a new incentive: money. If they don't lose more weight than the competition, they lose cash. Internet sites that facilitate diet betting have seen an increase in traffic, and recent studies have supported what Mr. Ee and his co-workers discovered: diet bets work for many people who couldn't seem to shed pounds any other way.
 ''Diet betting is definitely becoming more popular among friends, relatives and co-workers,'' said Joy Bauer, author of ''Joy's Life Diet: Four Steps to Thin Forever,'' and founder of Joy Bauer Nutrition, a firm with offices in Manhattan and Westchester County. ''It makes life easier if everyone around you is cutting calories, and the amicable competition keeps people driven. You are less likely to eat bad things from the candy jar.''
 Most diet bettors agreed that while losing weight was the ultimate goal, winning the bet -- and pocketing the winnings -- soon became the main reason they stuck to their diets.
 ''I wanted to win, and I blew everyone away,'' said Christopher Fallon, 36, a medical sales representative from West Orange, N.J. Mr. Fallon participated in a three-month diet bet with nine other colleagues, everyone contributing $100 to a winner-take-all pool. At a sales meeting a few weeks before the end of the bet, Mr. Fallon's fellow bettors realized that he was way ahead. 
 ''When I saw Chris at the gym at 6 a.m. looking skeletal, I knew it was over for me,'' said one colleague, Carolyn Kramaritsch. 
 Mr. Fallon admitted that he enjoyed vanquishing his peers even more than losing the pounds. ''I didn't even need to lose much weight,'' he said, ''but when I saw everyone else, I thought, 'I just won $900!' '' 
 A study in the December issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association found that people who had financial incentives to lose weight were much more successful at dieting than those who did not. 
 The study created two groups of dieters with financial incentives, as well as a control group. Dr. Kevin Volpp, co-author of the study and an associate professor in behavioral economics at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and the Wharton School, said the prospect of losing or gaining money was a significant incentive for dieters, especially when the money was not rewarded until the end of the period. 
 Weekly feedback was also an important component of the study, Dr. Volpp said, as was the very simple fact that people do not like to lose money.
 Similarly, two Yale professors, Dean Karlan and Ian Ayres, studied the effects of commitment contracts on quitting smoking and then applied that research to dieting, developing a business around their theories. They teamed up with a graduate student, Jordan Goldberg, 24, and started StickK.com last year, a Web site that motivates people to make changes in their lives by signing contracts: if they fail in their goals, it costs them money. 
 The site has more than 23,000 users, the highest percentage of whom (42 percent) have commitment contracts for losing weight. The site takes credit card information up front and charges your card weekly if you fail to meet your goal. You can designate someone to be your referee -- a friend, co-worker or spouse, for example -- but in the end, if they fail to do their jobs, then StickK.com takes your word for it.
 Bettors can also designate a friend or charity as recipients of their lost money, but they can also choose a ''foe or anti-charity.'' As the Web site states, ''Wouldn't it just kill you to hand over your hard-earned money to someone you can't stand?''
 You can choose from a list, which includes both the George W. Bush and Bill Clinton presidential libraries. The anti-charities have the highest success rate of all the StickK.com bets (85 percent), said Mr. Goldberg, chief executive of the company, adding, ''Some people respond better to negative reinforcement.'' 
 Pablo Juarez, 31, and Paul Sanborn, 40, co-workers at a software company in Washington, made separate diet contracts with StickK.com, designating each other to receive any money they lost. ''We decided to bet $1,000 for 40 weeks, at a pound a week,'' Mr. Sanborn said. ''What drove us to be successful was the money and the social pressure. We have a scale in my office, and our office friends keep track of it.''
 Mr. Juarez said: ''I got caught up in the competition. I was cocky at first, but then I missed two weeks.'' Both men lost more than 25 pounds.
 Mr. Sanborn says he is particularly motivated to be successful so he can get money from Mr. Juarez that he is already owed. ''When we were on a trip to Spain,'' Mr. Sanborn said, ''I got stuck with a 44-euro bill one night because Pablo was on the dance floor. Now when I'm on the StairMaster, I think, 'I'm going to get those 44 euros back.' ''
 TWO other new Web sites, fatbet.net and makemoneylosingweight.com, are designed for dieters who want to challenge one another. The sites, which are free, have formalized the group-diet betting process by providing a forum for publicly tracking weight and setting specific incentives, although neither site handles the monetary part of the bet.
 ''Betting makes the approach to weight loss more acceptable for men,'' said Prof. Geoffrey Greif of the University of Maryland School of Social Work and author of ''Buddy System: Understanding Male Friendships.'' ''These guys are repeating what they did as kids on the playground to see who can run faster or throw the ball harder. And it's also a safe way for men to be close.''
 That doesn't mean women don't do it. Carol Lewis, 45, who works part time for the Federal Reserve in Boston, made a fat bet last summer with her husband. ''He sent an e-mail challenge to me: 12 pounds for him and 6 for me,'' Ms. Lewis said. They formalized their bet on fatbet.net and let the games begin. 
 The deal was that if Ms. Lewis lost, she had to wear a shirt to their sons' soccer games that said: ''I lost a fat bet to my husband. I am a big loser,'' but she had not thought of a wager for him. They both lost some weight, although her husband lost more. Mr. Lewis is now involved in a new bet with other people.
 ''We razzed each other a lot,'' Ms. Lewis said. ''I baked a few cakes to try to tempt him, but he wouldn't touch them so I ate them myself. But sometimes when I went to get a cookie, he'd look at me, and I'd put it down and say, 'I'm not going to lose this bet!' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BET ON IT: Dennis Roberson, left, and Samwoo Ee are former co-workers who took part in a weight-loss competition with others in their office.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); DIETING (89%); NUTRITION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



180 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: A.P. Program Is Growing, But Black Students Lag

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
More than 15 percent of the three million students who graduated from public high schools last year passed at least one Advanced Placement exam, the College Board said Wednesday, but African-American students were still far less likely to have passed, or to even have taken, an A.P. exam than white, Hispanic or Asian students. 
 In its fifth annual report on its A.P. program, the College Board said the program was growing steadily. More than 460,000 students, or 15.2 percent, passed an A.P. exam last year, compared with 14.1 percent in 2007 and 12.2 percent five years ago. 
 But the program is not spreading evenly across the nation. In Mississippi and Louisiana, fewer than 4 percent of high school graduates passed an A.P. exam last year, and in 17 other states, fewer than 10 percent passed one. 
 At the other end of the spectrum, in Maryland and New York, the states with the most active Advanced Placement programs, more than 23 percent of high school graduates passed an exam. And California, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Virginia also had at least one in five graduates pass an A.P. exam last year. 
 The A.P. program offers high school students the chance to do college-level work in dozens of subjects and, if they pass the exams, to receive college credit at many universities. The exams are marked on a scale of one to five, with a three needed to pass. 
 But as in most aspects of American education, troubling ethnic gaps remain. African-Americans are seriously underrepresented in the A.P. program, and no state has yet closed that gap, said Gaston Caperton, the president of the College Board. 
 While 14 percent of last year's high school graduates were black, they made up only 8 percent of those taking A.P. exams -- and only 4 percent of those with passing scores. White students, at 63 percent of graduates, and Hispanics, at 15 percent, were nearly proportionately represented in the A.P. population. Asian students were overrepresented, making up 5 percent of graduates, but 10 percent of those taking A.P. exams. 
 Low-income students made up 17 percent of those who took A.P. exams last year, up from 16.2 percent in 2007, the report said. 
 This year, given the recession, Mr. Caperton stressed the economic benefits of the program. 
 ''In these times of economic distress, as family budgets are squeezed and financial aid resources are spread thin, rigorous courses like A.P. that prepare students for the demands of college and foster an increased likelihood of on-time graduation can be a very valuable resource for families,'' he said. 
 With a minority graduating from college in four years, A.P. credits can cut college costs by bolstering on-time graduation. For an out-of-state student at a public four-year university, the extra cost of taking six years to complete an undergraduate degree averages more than $58,000, the College Board said, while even five years for an in-state student costs an extra $18,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); FAMILY (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



181 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: A Novelist's Catalog Of Lives On the Block

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Maybe because of the way its bourgeois tendencies keep clashing with its elitist ambitions, the novel is a literary form that writers have never been able to resist reinventing. There are epistolary novels and those in the form of diaries, wordless picture novels, graphic novels and novels written as dictionaries and encyclopedias. The Serbian writer Milorad Pavic may win the prize: he has attempted novels disguised as a crossword puzzle, a tarot book and even a clepsydra, an ancient water clock (at least conceptually; the pages are dry).
 That a work of fiction has now assumed the form of an auction catalog could be seen as a sign of the times -- deeply materialistic and, with a big recession on, increasingly for sale. But the artist and writer Leanne Shapton said that the idea for her novel, being published this week by Farrar Straus & Giroux under the unwieldy title ''Important Artifacts and Personal Property From the Collection of Lenore Doolan and Harold Morris, Including Books, Street Fashion, and Jewelry,'' came to her because she noticed how the lot descriptions in some estate catalogs added up to elliptical plots about the lives of the former possessors. 
 When Bonhams & Butterfields, the auction house, sold more than 300 items of Truman Capote's personal effects in 2006, Ms. Shapton bought some of his clothing, including three of his raincoats and some scarves, which she gave as gifts. (''It's really morbid, I know,'' she said.) ''It was in reading that catalog that it struck me that it was like reading a kind of autobiography of Capote's later years, especially the last years of his life in California,'' said Ms. Shapton, 35, who is a well-known illustrator and the art director of the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
 Her book tells the story of a hopeful young New York couple and their four-year relationship almost completely through their things, many of which end up unceremoniously, and improbably, under the gavel: books, pajamas, bedside lamps, a stuffed squirrel, an astrakhan coat, the winning half of a wishbone and lots of notes, inscriptions and e-mail messages that start out giddy and become slowly more complicated, angry and sorrowful.
 If there were a real failed-relationship auction house named Strachan & Quinn, where the sale is supposed to take place on Valentine's Day, the event might actually draw a modest crowd, if only because the fictional Hal Morris, a globe-trotting photographer in his early 40s, and Lenore Doolan, who is presented as a late-20s cake columnist for The Times's Dining section, are generally more meticulous than conspicuous in their consumption.
 Hal asks Lenore to move in with him by sending her a case of 1989 Calon-Segur Bordeaux (auction estimate $55 to $95 for the remaining bottles); she informs him of her growing affection by altering the title page of May Sarton's novel ''Kinds of Love'' to read, ''I Kind of Love You'' (estimate $55 to $75). Their first serious tryst happens at the St. Regis (estimate for Lenore's handwritten note on hotel stationery, $10 to $20); they have great taste in clothes and bands and vintage paperbacks; and even their doodads, like a teapot in the shape of a dog (estimate $12 to $20), seem imbued with discrimination.
 ''It's sort of about how reliant we are on our things to define us,'' Ms. Shapton said, acknowledging that there is a strain of what she described as somewhat ''suffocating discernment'' running through the protagonists' lives.
 ''But I wanted to balance that with a pretty genuine love of very private meaning,'' she said, adding that most of the things put up for sale are ''those kinds of things that mean everything to the person who owned them and nothing to anyone else.''
 Ms. Shapton recruited two of her friends, Sheila Heti, a Toronto fiction writer, and Paul Sahre, a graphic designer who does work for The Times, to stand in for the fictional characters, posing elegantly together in pictures at fake parties and laughing arm in arm in various locations where Ms. Shapton shot them last summer as she pieced the story together. 
 As for the stuff, much of it came from secondhand stores or garage sales, though some of it -- for example, 18 bras on a double-page spread, looking like something from a Victoria's Secret catalog or a lost Ed Ruscha photographic project -- was hers. This includes a vintage baby outfit that Ms. Shapton and an old boyfriend once bought together as an expression of their desire to someday make a family together and that appears in the book seeming to serve the same purpose for Hal and Lenore.
 ''There are just those relationships you think are going to go the distance but they don't,'' Ms. Shapton said in an interview over a cup of coffee. She added that her current boyfriend (James Truman, the former editorial director of Conde Nast) told her that he was worried when she started on the auction-breakup-novel project that it might lead to their own breakup. But instead he proposed over the holidays, and she accepted.
 Lenore and Hal, sadly, never quite make it, an ending the reader begins to sense less than a few hundred lots in, when Sylvia Plath books start showing up and when, even amid the cans of designer house paint that evoke full-scale co-habitation, there is a Playbill with Lenore's handwritten accusation: ''Why go through my e-mail?'' By the time you get to the Hermes watch Hal gave Lenore to apologize for his bad behavior when she told him she might be pregnant (she wasn't), you know the end is very near.
 But all hope isn't lost. The auction house, perhaps trying to hook buyers with a bit of intrigue, begins the catalog with a recent note from Hal to Lenore in which Hal writes that he and his current girlfriend are taking a break. ''Alone again!'' he reports.
 At least one possession-obsessed novelist, John O'Hara, would have approved: ''For the sake of verisimilitude and realism,'' he wrote, ''you cannot positively give the impression of an ending: you must let something hang. A cheap interpretation of that would be to say that you must always leave a chance for a sequel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leanne Shapton, shown in her home studio, has written a book in the form of an auction catalog.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Among the objects helping to tell the story of Ms. Shapton's two protagonists are a stuffed squirrel and an astrakhan coat.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON FULFORD)
(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Important Artifacts and Personal Property From the Collection of Lenore Doolan and Harold Morris, Including Books, Street Fashion, and Jewelry (Book)>; Important Artifacts and Personal Property From the Collection of Lenore Doolan and Harold Morris, Including Books, Street Fashion, and Jewelry (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



182 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Chile Takes Steps to Rehabilitate Its Lucrative Salmon Industry

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting from Santiago, Chile.

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
When a devastating virus swept through Chile's farmed salmon stocks last year, some of the industry's biggest players laid off thousands of workers, packed up operations and moved to unspoiled waters farther south along the Chilean coast. But the virus went with them. 
 Last month, the Chilean government began hashing out tougher measures to improve the sanitary and environmental conditions of the troubled industry. But producers expect still deeper losses this year, as the virus continues to kill millions of fish slated for export to the United States and other countries. 
 Government and industry officials say they have already taken important steps to improve the ways salmon are farmed. But the persistent problems, critics say, reveal that neither the industry nor the government has fully grasped the need for the far-reaching changes required to protect not only consumers and the environment, but also one of Chile's most important industries from itself.
 They are not the only ones concerned. In the midst of the virus crisis, Chile has continued to raise salmon for export with chemicals and medications not approved for use in the United States and Europe, according to documents from regulators. 
 While the United States Food and Drug Administration says Chile made some progress in tackling its problems, it will keep Chilean imports of farmed fish under special scrutiny for the time being. 
 Chilean government officials and industry officials say the troubles are part of the growing pains of a $2 billion industry that in less than two decades built itself into the world's second largest exporter and the biggest supplier of salmon to the United States. 
 The virus afflicting the fish, infectious salmon anemia, or ISA, is not harmful to humans, they note. But after The New York Times reported on Chile's dying farmed fish last year, some buyers, like the supermarket giant Safeway, restricted imports from Chile.
 The troubles spurred the Chilean government to step up its controls. Last year Sernapesca, Chile's national fishing service, tripled its inspections of farmed fish, said Felix Inostroza, the agency's director.
 Among other things, the measures now being weighed by the Chilean Congress, which are expected to be passed before April, would thin the density of salmon pens, where overcrowding has contributed to the virus's spread, and reduce the use of antibiotics. 
 The authorities also plan to organize aquaculture permits into ''neighborhoods,'' where salmon companies will be required build in rest periods between production cycles, to give the marine environment time to recover, said Rodrigo Infante, general manager of SalmonChile, the industry association. 
 But environmental groups say they will continue to lobby for tougher changes. ''It is not enough for the industry to voluntarily police itself,'' said Andrea Kavanagh, manager of the Salmon Aquaculture Reform Campaign for the Pew Environment Group in Washington. 
 ''For too long, the government has ceded to industry convenience,'' she added, ''permitting chemicals known to harm its environment as well as consumers.''
 Her group obtained F.D.A. inspection reports last year in an open records request showing that Chilean producers had used three chemicals that are effectively banned in the United States. 
 Industry and Chilean government officials say the chemicals are not harmful to consumers when used the right way. ''Just because a substance is not allowed for use does not necessarily mean it poses a risk to human health,'' said Alicia Gallardo, the head of the Aquaculture unit of Sernapesca.
 But Chilean companies have struggled to comply with the regulations of other countries, particularly as they cope with a parasitic bacteria, rickettsia, carried by sea lice, which causes infection-prone lesions. 
 The industry is using antiparasitic treatments like emamectin benzoate, a pesticide fed to the fish, to treat the lice infestations, and antibiotics to control the resulting infections. 
 F.D.A. officials said that emamectin could be used in limited cases in the United States, but that it was one of the three prohibited chemicals that were highlighted in F.D.A. inspection documents last April. 
 The others were oxolinic acid and the antibiotic flumequine, according to the F.D.A. inspection reports recovered by the Pew Environmental Group. 
 Copies of the documents were shared with The New York Times and their authenticity verified by F.D.A. officials, including Donald Kraemer, the F.D.A.'s deputy director in the office for food safety. 
 In response to the findings last year, he said, the F.D.A. put three firms -- Cultivadores de Salmones Linao Ltda., Empresas Aquachile and Alimentos Cuisine Solutions -- on an ''import alert,'' which required that they prove shipments were drug-free. 
 The F.D.A. lifted the alert after the companies put in added controls, Mr. Kraemer said. From May to July, the F.D.A. also increased the number of fish samples it tested from Chile, he said. None of the F.D.A. tests came up positive for any banned drugs. But, Mr. Kraemer said, the F.D.A. does not have a reliable way to test for emamectin. 
 Empresas Aquachile declined to comment on the F.D.A. inspections. 
 Alex Miquel, the chief executive of Alimentos Cuisine Solutions, said that since being notified of its violations in October the company began testing each batch of salmon that it purchased from other companies. 
 In e-mailed responses, Alvaro Jimenez, managing director of Chile operations for Marine Harvest, which controls Cultivadores, noted that the F.D.A. alert was not based on detection of drug residues in the fish, but rather on documents detailing the company's drug control procedures at the plant. ''We are now in line with the requirements,'' he said.
 The Chilean firms did not stop using the drugs, said Mr. Kraemer of the F.D.A. Rather, they increased the ''withdrawal period'' for the fish -- the length of time they hold the fish after they are treated with the drugs, he said. 
 Still not fully satisfied, the F.D.A. has scheduled a ''system review'' for this March in Chile, where it will work with its counterpart in Chile, Sernapesca, to address how the country will deal with its fish diseases.
 ''We need to be able to know if they can control it on their side of the ocean, so we don't have to do it on our side,'' Mr. Kraemer said. 
 Chilean government officials, concerned about job losses in the south, say they are determined to reform the industry. ''But this has to be done with incentives,'' said Hugo Lavados, Chile's economy minister.
 In November, the government announced that it would provide $120 million in loan guarantees to help producers meet the new regulations quickly. But this year, producers still expect salmon output to drop by about 30 percent, said Cesar Barros, president of SalmonChile.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 30-pound salmon on sale in the port city of Puerto Montt, Chile. Producers expect output to drop by about 30 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO PINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A6) MAP: Chile is the world's second largest exporter of salmon. (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AQUACULTURE (90%); FINFISH FARMING (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD INSPECTION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPROVALS (76%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (72%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); FINFISH FISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



183 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Snowboarding Event Brings Mountain to the Masses

BYLINE: By MATT HIGGINS

 BODY:
In a winter in which stock prices and temperatures have plunged, a scene on the Lower East Side of Manhattan defies the notion of scaling back in bad times. 
 Over the last three weeks, a massive snowboard ramp has risen in East River Park, in the shadow of the Williamsburg Bridge. Nine stories tall and 150 yards long, it required more than 100 workers to build, and it has lured 16 of the world's top professional snowboarders to compete in Thursday's Red Bull Snowscrapers, billed as the largest urban snowboard event in North America. 
 Riders, including the 2006 Olympic snowboarding gold medalist Shaun White, Travis Rice, and Terje Haakonsen, will zip down the ramp and soar 50 feet while performing aerial maneuvers before touching down on either side of a 36-foot-long ramp. A panel of judges will rate the best moves and style. The winner will get $50,000 of a $100,000 purse. 
 Admission is free. The event will also be broadcast live on the MSG Network and replayed on NBC on Feb. 15. A producer for Snowscrapers, Jack Fleming, put the cost of staging the event in the high six figures. 
 Such a sum might seem foolhardy in a recession, particularly when several snowboarding competitions have been canceled this season. But for those planning new events, going big, especially on television, is seen as a way to increase an audience for a sport seldom seen outside of the Olympics or X Games. 
 ''It's a small percentage of folks that get to go up into the mountains and see snowboarding, and see these guys,'' Fleming said. ''And to bring them into this urban setting where there's millions of people, and bring the mountains to the people, is super important for us, good for the people of New York and good for the sport of snowboarding.'' 
 Last month, a record number of viewers watched the Winter X Games on ESPN, up an average of 8 percent from 2008. In December, the Winter Dew Tour began a three-event series featuring snowboarding and skiing disciplines, broadcast on NBC. 
 ''Snowboarding is starting to become a little more prevalent and people are starting to understand it a little more, like what a halfpipe is,'' said Rice, 26, who is regarded as the sport's most versatile rider and a favorite to win Snowscrapers. 
 But while the audience for snowboarding seems to be growing, the sport has contracted in other ways. 
 Last year, Rice started a snowboarding competition, Natural Selection, in Jackson Hole, Wyo. But it was canceled this year amid struggles by its main sponsor, Quiksilver, whose stock price has plummeted. 
 Two premier competitions in Europe were canceled this season on the Swatch TTR World Snowboard Tour. Snowscrapers was added as a new tour event. 
 Meanwhile, snowboard and related equipment sales were down 5 percent from August to December 2008 compared with the same period in 2007, said Kelly Davis, research director for SnowSports Industries America, a trade group. 
 But apparel sales have increased slightly over the same period, suggesting that many non-snowboarders want to dress as if they were headed to the slopes. The sport has made a target of such consumers. 
 ''It's selling a lifestyle,'' Davis said. 
 With a network television platform, the Dew Tour has already distinguished itself on a crowded snowboarding calendar. 
 With its television deal, Snowscrapers likewise has an opportunity to showcase the sport and its athletes with a major spectacle in a unique setting. 
 ''We get to show snowboarding to more than people who just have a special interest for it,'' said Haakonsen, a founder of the TTR world tour who has run a signature contest in Norway, the Arctic Challenge, for 10 years. ''I think the format will be great and there will be good action, I hope.'' 
 All 16 riders will attempt their best tricks during an hourlong jam format. The top eight advance to a final. 
 With such a huge ramp, there will be a small margin for error. Overshooting the landing area means falling 50 feet; coming up short means striking the spine in the middle. 
 ''It's going to be challenging and dangerous,'' Rice said. Then he added a sentiment that could also apply to the snowboarding economy these days: ''But it's going to separate the men from the boys.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Professional snowboarders will compete in Red Bull Snowscrapers on a nine-story ramp built on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
 Facing competition cancellations this season, organizers see the New York event as a special showcase.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNOWBOARDING (96%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MOUNTAINS (86%); SKIING (78%); WINTER OLYMPICS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); ATHLETES (75%); OLYMPICS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



184 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Visa Reports Profit Rose 35% With Increased Use of Cards

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Visa Inc., the credit card company, said Wednesday that its first-quarter profit rose 35 percent as consumers continued their shift away from cash toward electronic payments. 
 The results beat Wall Street expectations. Visa also reiterated its earnings outlook for the year, despite expectations of tougher economic conditions in coming months.
 Visa, the world's largest electronic payment network, reported net income of $574 million, or 74 cents a share, for the three months that ended Dec. 31. That was up from $424 million a year earlier, when Visa was privately held before its initial public offering last March.
 Excluding one-time charges and gains, Visa earned $599 million, or 78 cents a share, in the latest quarter.
 Visa, based in San Francisco, said its revenue rose 17 percent, to $1.74 billion from $1.49 billion, while operating expenses fell 5 percent to $773 million from $810 million.
 Total cards carrying the Visa brand rose 10 percent globally to 1.7 billion over the previous year, and total payment transactions jumped 13 percent to 14.5 billion.
 The chief executive, Joseph W. Saunders, told analysts that he expected recent cost-cutting efforts to help the company meet its previously stated goal of increasing its 2009 full-year profit by 20 percent.
 In trading after the market close, Visa shares rose $3.71, or about 7.6 percent, to $52.84, from their close in the regular session of $49.13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (98%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (98%)

PERSON: JOSEPH W SAUNDERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



185 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Study Likens Societal Cost Of Meth Use To Heroin's

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
In the first effort to calculate the national price of methamphetamine abuse, a new study said the addictive stimulant imposed costs of $23.4 billion in 2005. While the authors, from the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., caution that many impacts were difficult to quantify, their study suggests that methamphetamine takes an economic toll nearly as great as heroin and possibly more. 
 Methamphetamine was named the primary cause of some 900 deaths in 2005, and the report estimates that premature mortality alone cost $4 billion. Its abuse has spread from Hawaii and rural areas of the West and South since the 1990s, slowly expanding to the Midwest and the East. In the process, it has wreaked havoc on addicts' physical and mental health and on their families. 
 Federal surveys suggest that the share of Americans using the drug in a given year has stabilized, at about 1 percent of the population over age 12, which is far higher than the rate for heroin but half the rate for cocaine. About 400,000 Americans are believed to be addicted to methamphetamine, but a rising number are smoking it rather than taking it orally or snorting it. Smoking brings a faster, jolting high, quicker addiction and more ill effects. 
 The study is part of a project at RAND to evaluate the costs of drug addiction, financed by the National Institute on Drug Abuse and directed by Rosalie L. Pacula, co-director of the Drug Policy Research Center at RAND. 
 Extra financing for the report was provided by the Meth Project Foundation, a private group that seeks to prevent young people from using methamphetamine. 
 Dr. Wilson Compton, a division director at the National Institute on Drug Abuse, said the study's major innovation was its effort to quantify the effects of addiction on the quality of life -- how factors like poor health, anxiety and paranoia shrink the addict's horizons and pleasure over time. Such estimates have been made for heart diseases and other major ones but not for illegal drugs, Dr. Compton said. 
 These intangibles proved to be the largest costs, with an estimated price of $12.6 billion. Other major costs included $4.2 billion in crime and criminal justice, $904 million for endangered children put into foster care as a result of parents' use, $687 million in lost productivity, $545 million for drug treatment, $351 million for health care and $61 million for injuries and deaths at exploding meth labs and for cleaning up the toxic wastes they produce. 
 Because of the difficulty in pinpointing the role of methamphetamine in crime, medical care and other factors, the RAND researchers gave a range of estimates, saying the overall toll may be as low as $16.2 billion or as high as $48.3 billion. 
 Several potentially major costs were not factored in because they could not be measured. These include, for example, the burdens imposed on the families and friends of addicts, and the burdens of children who are not taken into the foster system. 
 The study is available on the Web at methproject.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METHAMPHETAMINE (94%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); HEROIN (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); FAMILY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); COCAINE (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); DRUG POLICY (69%); FOSTER CARE (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



186 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: New This Year: The Tried And True

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
POWERFUL forces are blowing through the gardening world, like storms that clear the air while leaving some wreckage.
 First, there's the economy, which could force gardeners to simplify, passing over the newest It Girl plants for trees and shrubs that have survived the test of time. 
 ''I can't keep up with all these cultivars,'' said Michael S. Dosmann, the curator of living collections at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University in Boston, which has never stooped to fads. ''I read the descriptions and they don't seem different from the species, so why would I even bother?''
 Mr. Dosmann was one of three horticultural stars who spoke at last week's Plant-O-Rama, an annual gathering of gardeners at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, co-sponsored by Metro Hort Group, an association of horticulturists. He focused on tried-and-true plants that have withstood the vagaries of weather and disease, some since the arboretum's founding in 1872. 
 Mr. Dosmann's favorites, flashed on the screen of the jammed auditorium, included Hydrangea paniculata Praecox, brought back from Japan by the arboretum's first director, Charles Sprague Sargent, in 1892; Mary Potter, a hybrid crabapple tree with a long, low canopy, planted at the arboretum in 1952; and Heptacodium miconioides, or seven-son-flower, a colorful shrub imported from China in 1980.
 Climate change, another undeniable force, may also make us let go of the plants of the moment, especially those that can't take flood, drought and roller coaster temperatures. On the other hand, warming trends invite taking a risk -- like planting a brown turkey fig tree, once too tender for a particular zone -- because winters are warmer now.
 Except for this winter, Daniel J. Hinkley, another speaker, pointed out. ''We had five years without a freeze, but just before Christmas we had an arctic outbreak,'' said Mr. Hinkley, a plant collector and founder of Heronswood, the now-defunct rare plants nursery in Kingston, Wash. ''We lost a good 10 percent of our plants,'' he said, referring to his five-acre garden on Bainbridge Island. 
 But death is no stranger to the adventurous gardener. ''Climate change is going to sort things out for us, but my mantra is what J. C. taught me,'' Mr. Hinkley said, referring to the late James C. Raulston, a horticulture professor at North Carolina State University in Raleigh. ''If you're not out there killing plants, you're not doing your job.''
 J. C., as his students and friends called him, exhorted gardeners to ignore advice about which plant is hardy to which zone. 
 ''You can't presume, you have to learn that yourself,'' said Mr. Hinkley, who is working with Monrovia Nursery, near Los Angeles, on a line of plants he discovered in Asia, South America and Europe, or re-discovered in this country. A few will be sold this spring at garden centers and botanic gardens (including the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, where they will be at the plant sale in early May). 
 Mr. Hinkley tempted the audience with species hydrangeas from China, like Hydrangea heteromalla, which has white lace-cap flowers that bloom on new wood. ''You can cut it to the ground and it will still bloom that same year,'' he said.
 He also recommended the new calycanthus hybrids, particularly Hartlage Wine, a deep burgundy without much fragrance, and Venus, a magnolia-like flower with a sweet scent. These crosses ''will rewrite our perception of calycanthus,'' he said.
 Of course, Mr. Hinkley is an optimist by nature. He has to be; he makes his living searching out new plants. Like Mr. Dosmann, he is a dedicated gardener who will be buried holding his trowel. 
 How more recent gardening converts will be affected by these hard times remains to be seen. 
 Ken Druse, the beloved, cranky gardener and photographer whose books are bibles for serious gardeners, speculated that suburban gardeners who mainly ''mow and blow'' may lose interest. 
 ''I've seen two generations of people who mow and blow and kick trees,'' said Mr. Druse, who was invited to the event to speak about his new book, ''Planthropology: The Myths, Mysteries and Miracles of My Garden Favorites.'' ''In my county, they just pave stuff and don't even think about runoff.''
 In fact, two new Harris polls suggest otherwise: more Americans are working in their gardens, and in the coming year they intend to grow more food.
 A poll conducted in January for the National Gardening Association indicated that Americans spent $1 billion more on gardening in 2008 than they did in 2007; that 27 million households grew vegetables last year (an increase of 2 million from the previous year); and that 33 million households reported taking care of their own landscapes rather than hiring someone else to do it (another increase of 2 million). 
 Bruce Butterfield, the association's research director, who designed the poll, said he thinks that ''people feel helpless that they can't control what's going on in the world around them, so they're focusing on the home. People are saying, 'I can at least control what happens in my own backyard.' ''
 The second poll, on edible gardening, which Mr. Butterfield also designed, was financed by Scotts Miracle-Gro and conducted last month as well. It surveyed 2,559 households nationwide about plans for 2009, and results suggested that this year will see a 20 percent increase in vegetable gardening. ''We saw the same increase in 1991-1992, when we had the last recession,'' Mr. Butterfield said.
 But Mr. Hinkley expressed skepticism about these new gardeners. ''I just don't think there's another generation moving in,'' he said. ''The next generation is so into not being outside.''
 Mr. Druse agreed. ''Texting, blogging, e-mail,'' he said. ''They keep their iPods in the garden, just in case somebody sends them an e-mail.'' He gets e-mail messages from fans who listen to ''Real Dirt,'' his weekly podcast, while they're weeding, he said, and he wonders how many will stick it out after the first onslaught of cucumber beetles.
 ''A lot of people won't be successful at growing food,'' Mr. Druse said. ''There are bugs and critters and animals, and you can't fool around without improving the soil.'' But ornamental gardening -- even ''marigolds in a pot, or a tire,'' he said -- is ''food for the soul.''
 Mr. Druse said he is embracing old-time plants like lilacs, deutzias and weigelas, which survive without much attention. He loves Asian jack-in-the-pulpits, like Arisaema fargesii, which thrive in his moist woodland soil, yet also goes to great lengths to find and plant the seeds of native orchids like Cypripedium kentuckiense.
 Whether hard times or a longing for fresh peas will bring more people to the garden -- and keep them there -- is anybody's guess.
 But those of us who can't stay away, even when our bodies complain, sat up when Mr. Dosmann flashed an image on the screen of two 18-foot Praecox hydrangeas, planted more than a century ago, covered with flowers. 
 ''Never been pruned,'' he said. ''I hope I look that good when I'm over 100 years old.'' 
 Anticipation Grows
 The experts at this year's Plant-O-Rama dangled some intriguing trees, shrubs and vines in front of gardeners hungry for spring.
 One of them, Heptacodium miconioides, the seven-son flower, is a shrub that grows no taller than 10 feet, which makes it well suited to urban yards. Its name comes from its fragrant white flowers, which bloom in clusters of seven. It has little purple fruits and brilliant red calyxesthat are colorful through late fall, and bone-white, peeling bark that is a hit in the winter. Available through Forest Farm Nursery in Williams, Ore., (541) 846-7269; forestfarm.com.
 Another, Yucca gloriosa ''Variegata,'' is a drought-tolerant plant hardy to Zone 7, where winter temperatures rarely fall below zero. The white margins around its green blades turn red in winter. Available through Yucca Do Nursery in Giddings, Tex., (979) 542-8811; yuccado.com.
 Arisaema fargesii, a Chinese jack-in-the-pulpit with large glossy leaves and purple striped flowers that resemble a cobra's head, is hardy to Zone 5, where temperatures can fall to 20 below zero. Available through Asiatica Nursery in Lewisberry, Pa., (717) 938-8677; asiaticanursery.com.
 India Frills, a coleus that looks like little hands with red palms, emerged as another favorite, strutting its stuff at the trade show held during the conference at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Palm House.
 This colorful, low-maintenance painted nettle can be grown in a pot or as a spreading ground cover. Available from Atlock Farm in Somerset, N.J., which carries 140 different coleuses and many other herbaceous plants, (732) 356-3373; atlockfarm.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 5 about Plant-O-Rama, an annual gathering of gardeners at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, referred incorrectly to Heronswood Nursery. It was bought in 2000 by W. Atlee Burpee & Company and its operations were moved from Kingston, Wash., to Doylestown, Pa. It is not defunct.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KEEPERS: Plants that do well in the Northeast include, clockwise from left, Arisaema fargesii, a jack-in-the-pulpit
India Frills, a coleus
and Hydrangea paniculata Praecox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN DRUSE
MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL S. DOSMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%)

COMPANY: GARDEN CO LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



187 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Hit Hard, Panasonic To Shed 5% Of Workers

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Panasonic said on Wednesday that it was shedding 15,000 jobs, the second significant layoff in Japan's electronics industry in less than a week. It was the latest example of how Japanese companies, exporters in particular, were scrambling to cut costs as demand evaporates. 
 Panasonic, along with Mitsubishi Motors and Mazda, also joined the rapidly lengthening list of companies to sharply revise their full-year outlooks Wednesday, with Panasonic now projecting a net loss of 380 billion yen or $4.2 billion for the year ending March 31, rather than the 30 billion yen profit it forecast on Nov. 27. Mitsubishi expects a net loss of 60 billion yen and Mazda 13 billion.
 The speed of the demand downturn in recent months has taken manufacturers and economists by surprise, and forced many companies to sharply lower profit warnings made only months or even weeks ago.
 As concern mounts that no tangible improvement will come until late in 2009 at the earliest, companies have intensified their cost cuts: large-scale layoffs like the ones announced by Panasonic on Wednesday and by the computer maker NEC last Friday are likely to become increasingly common. NEC is cutting 20,000 jobs. Hitachi, Toshiba and Sony have all also recently announced thousands of job cuts.
 ''Business conditions have worsened particularly since last October,'' Panasonic said in a statement, ''due mainly to the rapid appreciation of the yen, sluggish consumer spending worldwide and ever-intensified price competition.''
 During the October-December period, as the impact of the credit squeeze began to bite, Panasonic had a net loss of 63.1 billion yen, in contrast to a profit of 115.2 billion yen in the period a year earlier.
 Panasonic said it would shut 13 manufacturing sites in Japan and 14 abroad by the end of March. It also plans to lay off about 15,000 workers, or 5 percent of its work force, by March 2010. Half of the cuts will be made in Japan.
 Manufacturers of discretionary items -- purchases that shoppers can put off or avoid altogether when times get tough -- have been especially hard hit as much of the developed world lurched into recession last year.
 Such goods include cars, which are piling up unsold as demand plummets faster than manufacturers' ability to cut back production.
 Manufacturers in Japan have suffered the additional burden of the yen's appreciation against the dollar over the past year. This has made their products more expensive for consumers in the United States market.
 In addition, Japan has a number of electronics makers -- Sony, Panasonic, Sanyo and the camera makers Canon and Nikon among them -- making for intense competition. The current crisis may intensify pressure for some of these to merge. Panasonic's plans to swallow the much smaller Sanyo are awaiting regulatory approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); RECESSION (75%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); APPROVALS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); PROFIT WARNINGS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%)

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (58%); PANASONIC CORP (58%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (58%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); PC (NYSE) (58%); 6752 (TSE) (58%); 7211 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



188 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (NBC) ER William H. Macy, left, now on Broadway in ''Speed-the-Plow,'' returns as Dr. David Morgenstern in a story line that sends him to County General to reconnect with an old mentor who is gravely ill.
 10 A.M. (ABC); 2 P.M. (55) RACHAEL RAY Tom Cavanagh talks about playing a mad ad man on his new show, ''Trust Me,'' on TNT. 
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Ms. DeGeneres shares the stage with Drew Barrymore, whose latest film is ''He's Just Not That Into You,'' and Taraji P. Henson, who earned an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress for ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.''
 8 P.M. (13) IT'S THE ECONOMY, NY! Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times continues his examination of the economic crisis and its impact on New York residents.
 8 P.M. (ABC) UGLY BETTY Betty (America Ferrera) postpones a decision when her dishy neighbor Jesse (Val Emmich) suddenly expresses interest in her again. Daniel (Eric Mabius) tries to cover his tracks when Connor (Grant Bowler) goes in search of the man who stole the heart of Molly (Sarah Lafleur).
 8 P.M. (CW) SMALLVILLE When an explosion at LuthorCorp injures Oliver (Justin Hartley), Lex (Michael Rosenbaum) is the prime suspect. But Clark (Tom Welling) and Lana (Kristin Kreuk) discover that the person responsible is Winslow Schott (Chris Gauthier), a toymaker and onetime employee of Oliver's who harbors a grudge.
 8 P.M. (Fox) BONES Evidence in the Grave Digger case has gone missing, and Dr. Brennan (Emily Deschanel) is a prime suspect. Meanwhile the Digger himself gives her a call to let her know that he has buried Booth (David Boreanaz, right) alive with only 24 hours' worth of oxygen.
 8 P.M. (Ovation) ONE BAD CAT: THE REVEREND ALBERT WAGNER STORY (2008) Narrated by Delroy Lindo, this special tells the story of Mr. Wagner, who gave up petty crime to become a painter devoted to portraying his perspective on black American life. 
 8:30 P.M. (NBC) KATH & KIM The mother-daughter duo (Molly Shannon and Selma Blair) is on the short list to host a dinner for the country singer Wynonna Judd (guest-starring as herself). But first they have to pass muster with her people. 
 9 P.M. (ABC) GREY'S ANATOMY Derek (Patrick Dempsey), ring now in hand, considers the perfect way to propose to Meredith (Ellen Pompeo). 
 9 P.M. (CW) SUPERNATURAL When a siren seduces three men into murdering their wives in a small Iowa town, Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate and fall under her spell. Now they're at each other's throats.
 9 P.M. (TLC) STREET CUSTOMS In this Season 2 premiere Ryan Friedlinghaus and his crew at West Coast Customs are asked to customize a 1967 Barracuda as a tribute to the hot rod designer Boyd Coddington, who died in 2008. But when Mr. Friedlinghaus hires Mr. Coddington's former shop manager to help with the job, the result is friction.
 9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK Liz (Tina Fey), in her own awkward way, tries to get to know her handsome new neighbor (Jon Hamm of ''Mad Men''). Jack (Alec Baldwin) attempts to win over Elisa's (Salma Hayek) grandmother after she scorns him for looking like a villain in a Spanish-language soap opera. And Tracy (Tracy Morgan) suffers a blow to his ego after failing to keep up with some hard-partying interns.
 10 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN This new PBS concert-and-interview series presents musicians in different settings each week. The opening show: Alanis Morissette at Judson Memorial Church.
 10 P.M. (A&E) THE BEAST Barker (Patrick Swayze) and Dove (Travis Fimmel) hunt for blackmailers who are accused of giving the son of a jewelry-store executive (Victoria Tennant) a deadly virus.
 10 P.M. (Discovery) TREASURE QUEST After discovering what could be one of the most monumental shipwrecks ever -- code name: Legend -- it's now up to the Odyssey Marine Exploration team to keep it safe.
 10 P.M. (TLC) HELI-LOGGERS This new series journeys to the rain forest of northern British Columbia, where loggers use a giant Boeing Chinook helicopter -- the only one of its kind in Canada -- to cut and transport trees on what the TLC people are calling an eco-friendly mission. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: ELLEN POMPEO (54%); DREW BARRYMORE (54%); PATRICK DEMPSEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



189 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai's Safety Net Proves Attractive In Uncertain Times

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
TWENTY-THREE years after it started selling cars in the United States, and in the midst of an industrywide slump that has pushed some competitors to the brink of bankruptcy, the Korean automaker Hyundai spent $3 million to tell Americans watching the Super Bowl how to say its name correctly.
 ''It's 'HUN-day,' like Sunday,'' said one of its two ads during the game. 
 Few carmakers have the luxury to be concerned about pronunciation these days. New-vehicle sales fell 37 percent last month, the industry's worst January since 1963.
 Then again, more car shoppers are saying Hyundai's name. The company's market share nearly doubled last month as sales rose 14 percent, the largest year-over-year increase that any big automaker has posted in the United States since last May.
 One reason for the jump in January, after a dismal December, appears to be Hyundai's new marketing strategy of promising to let buyers return their vehicles, at no cost in most cases and with no penalty to their credit rating, if they lose their job or income within a year.
 ''To their credit, they struck at the core of what's bothering people, and that's obviously uncertainty,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, the chief executive of Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers. ''It's just the fear and the uncertainty that's holding people back.''
 Mr. Anwyl said the program, called Hyundai Assurance, would probably lead to similar deals from some rivals after they see that Hyundai's offer is resonating with consumers.
 ''It gives them a whole new audience -- people for whom it would have never popped up on their shopping list,'' he said. 
 Sales of the Hyundai Sonata, a full-size sedan that costs less than $20,000, surged 85 percent in January, making it one of the country's top-selling vehicles. And Hyundai sold more passenger cars last month than Chrysler, which has four times as many dealers.
 ''Hyundai is the right franchise for the times right now,'' said Rick Case, who in February 1986 opened the first two Hyundai dealerships in the country and now owns six Hyundai stores, in Florida, Georgia and Ohio. ''With this economy, a lot of people don't want to be seen in Mercedeses and BMWs and Lexuses.''
 While 2009 has started well for Hyundai, the final months of 2008 were rather turbulent. The company named its fifth American chief executive in five years. And from September to December, sales at Hyundai and its Kia subsidiary plunged 37 percent, more than any other mass-market automaker except Chrysler. 
 The company lost many potential buyers when most banks stopped approving loans for customers with subprime credit.
 ''It really wasn't something that we had faced before, and I don't want to live through another fourth quarter like that again,'' said David L. Zuchowski, Hyundai's vice president for sales.
 Last fall Hyundai began testing the idea of a return policy rather than simply piling more discounts onto its already low-price vehicles. The program covers every buyer of a leased or financed vehicle who involuntarily loses a job; becomes physically disabled; loses a driver's license for medical reasons; is transferred to another country; is self-employed and files for bankruptcy; or dies in an accident. 
 The guarantee covers the difference between the value of the car and the amount the buyer owes, or negative equity, up to a maximum of $7,500. 
 ''It doesn't matter how many zillion dollars you put in rebates, or what A.P.R. you give them,'' Mr. Zuchowski said. ''If people are worried about their job, they don't really care and they're just not going to get off the fence. But we had to walk a really fine line. We wanted to make sure we didn't come off as panicked or distressed.''
 Mr. Zuchowski declined to reveal the cost of the program but said it was negligible, especially weighed against the expected increase in sales.
 In mid-January, Hyundai had another boost when its first luxury sedan, the Genesis, which costs $15,000 to $20,000 less than many competing models, was named North American car of the year at the Detroit auto show.
 Mr. Zuchowski said Hyundai can benefit from merely putting itself in front of American consumers, hence the Super Bowl ads and its sponsorship of the Academy Awards this month -- after General Motors backed out. 
 The company has 7 percent of the market in the United States, where it has one plant, but last year it became the world's fifth-largest automaker, ahead of Honda, Nissan and Chrysler.
 ''A lot of people still think we're this little import that builds cars in corrugated tin shacks in South Korea,'' Mr. Zuchowski said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., a shopper considered a Hyundai Elantra. Hyundai says it has a more compelling offer than its prices: buyers are allowed to return their cars if they lose their jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MARKET SHARE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SEDANS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (96%); HYUNDAI CORP (91%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (96%); 005380 (KSE) (96%); 011760 (KSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (96%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



190 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Senate Advances Tax Break for Homebuyers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate on Wednesday voted to expand the economic stimulus package with a tax credit for homebuyers of up to $15,000, a provision championed by Republicans as addressing a root cause of the recession. 
 The vote to add the tax credit, at a cost of about $18.5 billion, came as Senate leaders seemed to be nearing completion of negotiations. The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, suggested that a final vote on the stimulus plan could come on Thursday.
Moderate lawmakers in both parties are pushing to reduce the overall cost of the measure and to focus it more tightly on provisions that will quickly spur spending and create jobs. The vote came as President Obama met with centrist lawmakers to address concerns about the package. 
 Mr. Obama, while expressing willingness to compromise, also issued a warning to some Republican critics who have said they will press for major changes to the bill, including the removal of many spending programs in favor of wider tax cuts. 
 ''I've heard criticisms of this plan that echo the very same failed theories that helped lead us into this crisis, the notion that tax cuts alone will solve all our problems, that we can ignore the fundamental challenges like energy independence and the high cost of health care and still expect our economy and our country to thrive,'' he said. 
 ''I reject that theory,'' Mr. Obama continued, ''and so did the American people when they went to the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I urge members of Congress to act without delay.'' 
 And, as if taking a cue from their president, Senate Democrats on Wednesday evening used their newly strengthened majority to swiftly reject a series of Republican amendments intended to cut spending or broaden the tax package in the stimulus bill. 
 Presuming Senate Democrats muscle the bill through, the final legislation must be reconciled with the $820 billion measure approved last week by the House. 
 The tax break for homebuyers, which the Senate approved by voice vote without opposition, was the second amendment in two days intended to encourage consumers to make major purchases. On Tuesday, the Senate approved a tax incentive for car buyers, sponsored by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that would allow the deduction of sales tax and loan interest on purchases made this year. 
 But while both of those incentives were applauded by lawmakers who said that the bill should quickly induce consumer spending, some economists said they were short-sighted and lacked the forward-thinking approach Mr. Obama has demanded. 
 Adam Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute of International Economics, said that homebuyers would have trouble accessing loans because of the continued tightness in the credit markets and that the car buyer incentive fell short by not focusing on fuel-efficient vehicles, and that the money might be better directed at mass transit. 
 ''They are also structurally unsound,'' Mr. Posen said of the two provisions, ''reinforcing the attempts of industries that are too large -- housing construction, automobile production -- to survive based on government distortions.'' 
 He called them both ''terrible, pandering ideas.'' 
 But Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, a former real estate broker, who was the prime sponsor of the homebuyer credit, said it was modeled after a similar, $2,000 homebuyer incentive that helped lead the country out of recession in 1975. 
 ''We do have a history in this country with housing and it goes back to the crash of 1974, which actually in terms of inventory and price declines was comparable to what's happening now,'' Mr. Isakson said at a news conference. 
 ''Within one year of the inception of that tax credit, two-thirds of the available inventory that was on the market was gone. The market moved back to a balanced inventory, values stabilized and things became very healthy. The only reason I know all of that is I was selling houses in 1974, that's what I was doing to feed my family and make a living.''
 The tax credit would give buyers 10 percent of the price of a primary residence bought within one year, up to $15,000, and is intended to stabilize plummeting home prices, which caused a wave of foreclosures and led to the near collapse of the financial system as Wall Street firms wrote down billions in mortgage-backed assets. 
 With Wednesday's additions, the cost of the Senate package has climbed well above $900 billion -- the limit that Mr. Obama has set for the final legislation. Intense negotiations seemed likely over how to reduce the price tag. 
 At the White House on Wednesday, Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, personally delivered a list of cuts, totaling about $100 billion, that she said should be made. 
 Ms. Snowe met one-on-one with Mr. Obama in the Oval Office, and the president met later in the day with Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska. Ms. Collins and Mr. Nelson have been working on a substitute bill that would strip out spending that they said would not provide an immediate jolt to the economy. 
 Ms. Snowe, leaving the White House, said it was imperative that ''every provision has a job creation component.'' 
 Initiatives that critics hope to remove from the bill include $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts, $14 million for cyber security research by the Homeland Security Department, $1 billion for the National Science Foundation, $400 million for research and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, $850 million for Amtrak and $400 million for climate change research. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (58%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



191 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Still Nice Work if You Can Get It

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to cap senior executives' pay at bailed-out banks and other companies addresses one of the most outrageous weaknesses of the Bush administration's financial-rescue package. If anyone is feeling bad for the bankers, don't. The banks can pay more than the figure Mr. Obama chose -- $500,000 a year -- but only in restricted stock that cannot be cashed in until the government has been repaid. That sounds more than fair to us. 
 The White House also announced that it is beginning a review of executive-pay policies in the entire financial industry to see if there are ways to better align long-term risk and reward. That, too, is overdue. 
 The administration and Congress should move quickly to determine whether new rules could be applied, using the tax code or securities regulations, to encourage all banks to pay their executives in a way that tempers the destructive lust for risk that has brought the financial system to this cataclysm. 
 Critics of pay caps and other restrictions claim the limitations will make it harder to find new talent. But the economy has not been well served by the arms race in pay. The country needs executives whose remuneration is tied to the long-term success of their strategies -- not just the immediate payoff of their latest risky bet.
 The new rules also broaden the terms of the original bailout to ban a larger number of executives from receiving golden parachutes and subject more to the ''clawback'' provisions designed to recover bonuses based on fraudulent information. They also demand that corporate boards establish explicit policies to guide expenditures on things such as entertainment and renovations -- including corporate office remodelings -- and make them public on their Web sites. 
 The new rules contain some potentially worrying exceptions that will have to be monitored carefully. Banks that don't get a custom-made bailout -- like those doled to Citigroup and Bank of America -- can get a waiver from the caps if they disclose the salary publicly and subject it to a shareholder vote. 
 Lower-level bankers, like traders, face no remuneration limit and could still reap millions. All top bankers getting taxpayer money could be remunerated in other ''long-term incentive arrangements.'' That might open the door to opaque financial engineering. Under certain circumstances, they might be allowed to cash in their bonuses before the government is paid back.
 Still the new rules are a sound move in the right direction. If the country is lucky, the rules might instill a modicum of caution, if not shame, in the banking industry. Perhaps they can even keep some banks from having to return to the public trough in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



192 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: U.S. FACING LOSS OF KEY ASIA BASE

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ELLEN BARRY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Washington, and Ellen Barry from Moscow. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration scrambled Wednesday to come up with an alternative to a crucial United States air base in Central Asia, used to supply the growing military operation in Afghanistan, after the president of Kyrgyzstan ordered the American base in his country closed. 
 Defense and State Department officials said they had concluded that Russia had pressed Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, to expel the Americans. Russia has promised not to impede the American-led fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan, but has also sought to push United States forces out of bases it began leasing in Central Asia in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
 The Kyrgyz Parliament planned to vote Friday on a measure that would close the base at Manas, a major air hub for troops and cargo. Loss of the base would present a significant problem for the Obama administration as it deploys as many as 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan over the next two years. Taliban attacks have made another prime supply route to Afghanistan -- an overland pass through Pakistan -- highly unreliable.
 A senior State Department official said that negotiations with Kyrgyzstan over the base had been halted and that the alternatives under consideration included bases in Europe and the Persian Gulf, as well as a possible expansion of existing bases in Afghanistan. 
 The United States has leased the Central Asian base since after the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, but American officials said they believed that Russia was using an offer of more than $2 billion in loans and grants to Kyrgyzstan to force the United States out of the region, colloquially referred to as ''the Stans.''
 ''The motivation is to have a strong bilateral relationship with the Stans that prevents the Stans from hosting U.S. or NATO facilities on their soils,'' a Defense Department official said.
 About 15,000 personnel and 500 tons of cargo pass through Manas each month. The base is also the home of large tanker aircraft that are used for in-air refueling of fighter planes on combat missions over Afghanistan.
 The American officials, who insisted on anonymity because of the delicacy of the negotiations, said that it was possible that the United States would resume talks with Kyrgyzstan but that for the next weeks the United States would be investigating whether some of the functions of the base could be relocated, perhaps to more than one place.
 The State Department official said it was still possible that the United States might offer Kyrgyzstan more compensation for the base after the other alternatives and their costs had been explored. ''Once we evaluate what this is really worth to us, we'll talk to them about money,'' he said. The United States calculates that it pays Kyrgyzstan more than $150 million in assistance and compensation each year. But the State Department official said that only a portion of that money went directly to the Kyrgyz government. ''Frankly, we haven't been excessively generous,'' the official said.
 The State Department official said that ''fundamentally it comes to money, and the Russians are trying to buy us out.''
 A statement by the Kyrgyz government on Wednesday argued that the American mission in Afghanistan had outlasted its original goals, the terrorist threat there had ''been removed,'' and that NATO airstrikes in Afghanistan had caused unacceptable civilian casualties. 
 The Kyrgyz president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, announced the decision on Tuesday in Moscow, where his impoverished country won $150 million in aid and the forgiveness of $180 million in debt in addition to the $2 billion in loans. Russian officials claimed that the announcement of the base closure was purely coincidental, but Russia has long resented the United States presence in Central Asia. 
 If the measure passes the Kyrgyz Parliament on Friday, as expected, Washington would have 180 days to close the base. The senior Defense official said the closure ''has all the earmarks of being a done deal.''
 Russian officials took pains on Wednesday to reassure President Obama that they hoped to cooperate with him in Afghanistan and elsewhere. But the conciliatory words sounded peculiar beside the blunt fact of the base closure, which seemed to communicate that American plans in the region should be coordinated with Moscow. 
 ''The calculation behind the Russian move is that the Americans have not so many alternatives,'' said Fyodor A. Lukyanov, the editor of Russia in Global Politics. ''If you need something there, you should go not to Bishkek but to Moscow.''
 Russian leaders also hope to secure concessions from Mr. Obama on a variety of issues, among them planned missile defense facilities in the Czech Republic and Poland, revamped security structures in Europe, and a renegotiation of the Start I arms treaty. 
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Wednesday that Russia and its allies were ready for full-fledged, comprehensive cooperation with the United States and other coalition members in fighting terrorism in the region. But he also laid out his own view of the best approach in Afghanistan, with veiled criticism of the United States. 
 ''Democracy cannot be forced -- it must grow from within,'' he said. ''It's not the number of bases that matters. It would be good if that would reduce the number of terrorists, but the fight against terrorism is not limited to building up military forces.''
 But by stressing that they are ready to search for alternatives in Europe, the Persian Gulf and Afghanistan itself, the Americans also appeared eager to signal that they would not allow Russia to dictate the terms of its engagement in Afghanistan or the region.
 This is not the first time that United States officials have tangled with Kyrgyzstan over the base at Manas. During negotiations this summer, the State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the United States would pay more than $150 million in assistance and compensation for the base this year. At the time, a government statement said the United States had contributed more than $850 million to support democracy, economic development, aid projects and security in the Kyrgyz Republic since its independence from the Soviet Union. 
 At a news conference in Moscow on Tuesday, Mr. Bakiyev complained about a 2006 incident in which a United States serviceman had shot a Kyrgyz truck driver on the base, and said Washington had also ignored his requests for more money.
 ''Eight years have passed,'' he said. ''We have repeatedly raised with the United States the matter of economic compensation for the existence of the base in Kyrgyzstan, but we have not been understood.'' 
 Kyrgyzstan's close relations with the United States have long unsettled Russia and China, which both have military interests in the region. 
 In 2005, the country appeared to move further into Washington's orbit after a popular uprising, supported in part by the United States, toppled the corrupt and increasingly authoritarian government of Askar A. Akayev, sending the president fleeing across the border. The bloodless coup was part of a wave of popular revolts, known as color revolutions, that remain a source of anger and suspicion among Russian officials, who consider them Washington-hatched schemes meant to undermine Russia's influence in the region.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A man tended sheep on Wednesday near a tower at the United States air base at Manas, in Kyrgyzstan. The Kyrgyz Parliament is expected to vote to close the base. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VYACHESLAV OSELEDKO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORISM (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (55%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



193 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Senate Agrees to Dilute 'Buy America' Provisions

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate, at the urging of White House officials, agreed Wednesday night to water down some of the ''Buy America'' provisions in its version of the $900 billion economic stimulus bill.
 The vote gave President Obama a victory in the first test of how he will balance his campaign promises to toughen protections for American workers against a storm of protests by American trading partners who have threatened retaliation. 
 The White House had been seeking assurances that any requirements barring purchases from abroad did not significantly expand existing law or violate existing trade treaties. The language approved by the Senate said such provisions should be ''applied in a manner consistent with United States obligations under international agreements.'' 
 More than 50 nations are covered by treaties with the United States, and thus may be entitled to exceptions to the restrictions. Many of those countries, and the European Union, have issued protests about the legislation.
 The action came a day after Mr. Obama told a television interviewer that ''we can't send a protectionist message'' in the stimulus bill, or convey to trading partners ''that somehow we're just looking after ourselves and not concerned with world trade.'' His comments suggested that Mr. Obama was beginning a familiar pirouette, adjusting positions on trade first made for domestic political consumption to deal with the more complex matrix of forces that come into play when governing.
 There are few more politically charged issues embedded in the stimulus legislation than those that put limits on spending the money abroad. The House bill requires that billions of dollars for new infrastructure be spent on American-made iron and steel. 
 The Senate bill, which aides said had prompted Mr. Obama's comment, went much further, requiring that all ''manufactured goods'' bought by taxpayers for the stimulus be produced domestically, a requirement that would seem to exclude some of the most commonly used appliances of daily life, including most computers. On Wednesday night, Senator John McCain tried, and failed, to have the provision stripped from the bill. Among American allies, who welcomed Mr. Obama's inauguration as the beginning of a new era, the wording came as a shock, and in recent days they had been bombarding Congress and senior officials of the new administration with reminders that for decades, the United States has protested every time other nations have enacted similar laws.
 Mr. Obama told Fox News on Tuesday that he wanted ''to see what kind of language we can work on this issue.'' But his decisions will involve more than just language. Mr. Obama, his aides say, knows he is facing a test of how he balances the interests of American workers and allies who fear that the global economic downturn will worsen American protectionist impulses. 
 ''Buy America'' is hardly a new idea -- Congress has passed similar requirements for seven decades -- and in many cases it is not considered a violation of trade treaties. 
 The first efforts to compel the government to buy American goods go back to the Great Depression. Scott N. Paul, the executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, said Wednesday that ''there are 'Buy European' programs that are a lot stronger than what is being described'' in the Senate bill, and he argued that the European protests were simply efforts to gain an edge in future trade disputes.
 Even as the protests from Europe poured in, Democratic lawmakers from steel-producing states warned Mr. Obama that if he backed away from the provisions, they would oppose the whole stimulus bill -- perhaps an empty threat, but perhaps not. 
 ''If it's not in, I'm not supporting this package and I'll bring a lot of votes with me,'' said Representative James L. Oberstar, the Minnesota Democrat who is chairman of the House Transportation Committee. 
 Other members of Mr. Obama's party issued similar threats, reminding Mr. Obama that he was the candidate who early in his campaign called for renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement and constantly cast the stimulus bill as a way to create or save at least three million jobs. 
 But Mr. Obama is constrained by trade agreements, Nafta included, and a commitment that the United States joined at an emergency meeting of the world's 20 largest economies in Washington in October. All countries agreed on ''the critical importance of rejecting protectionism and not turning inward in times of financial uncertainty.''
 Many presidents have been caught in a similar vise, but few at a time of such economic stress. Bill Clinton ran for the presidency in 1992 raising questions about Nafta, which had yet to be ratified, and vowing to link China's human rights record to its trading status. He later pushed Nafta through Congress and got China into the World Trade Organization, assuring its trading rights, without regard to its human rights record. 
 But for Mr. Obama it is a particularly difficult moment because of his emphasis on creating jobs. He has steered clear of adopting Mr. Clinton's arguments about how free trade leads to greater American exports.
 ''I know how he feels,'' said former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, who served as ambassador to Japan in the 1990s, ''because you make broad comments about trade in the heat of a campaign, and you get into office and someone sits you down and explains the complexities of dealing with the Japanese and the Chinese and the Europeans.'' 
 It was in Tokyo, Mr. Mondale recalled, that ''I spent a lot of my life trying to cajole politicians into getting rid of 'Buy Japanese' laws that were keeping our products out. And so when I saw this in the stimulus bill, my first thought was, 'This is big trouble.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



194 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2048 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: FEBRUARY 5, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 BRITISH COURT BLOCKS DATA
 On Terrorism Suspect
 A British court said that it was unable to release information about a British terrorism suspect who says he was tortured in American custody, because of what the court called a threat from the United States to reconsider sharing intelligence with the country. PAGE A6 
 CHILE TRIES TO SAVE SALMON TRADE
 When a devastating virus swept through Chile's farmed salmon stocks last year, some of the industry's biggest players packed up operations and moved to unspoiled waters. But the virus went with them. The Chilean government has taken steps to improve conditions that threaten the industry, but critics say they do not go far enough. PAGE A6 
 CLUES FROM GIANT SNAKE'S FOSSILS
 Some 60 million years ago, a giant relative of today's boa constrictors, weighing more than a ton and measuring 42 feet long, lived in tropical forests in northern South America, according to a fossil discovery. The finding may help clarify how hot the tropics became during an era when the planet was far warmer than it is now. PAGE A7 
 Memo from Beijing
 Online Filter Tightens in China
 Since early January, the Chinese government has been waging a decency campaign that has closed more than 1,500 Web sites found to contain sex, violence or vulgarity. But indecency is often in the eye of the beholder. PAGE A8 
 AGENCY SAYS HAMAS TOOK AID
 The United Nations agency that provides assistance to Palestinian refugees said that the Hamas police in Gaza had seized aid supplies intended for the needy, signaling increased tensions between the agency and the Hamas leaders of the Palestinian enclave. PAGE A10 
 IRAQ SEEKS TO QUELL ANBAR TENSION
 The Iraqi government sought to tamp down escalating tensions in Anbar Province over the provincial elections as the commission overseeing the vote said it was investigating several cases of possible fraud in the Sunni-dominated area. PAGE A12 
 CLINTON TRIES TO EASE CONCERNS
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton sought to assuage concern within the State Department that the appointment of two emissaries would elbow aside the department's professional diplomats. PAGE A12 
 CLIMATE EMPHASIS IN CHINA TALKS
 An increasing number of officials and scholars from the United States and China say climate change is likely to become a focal point of any serious discussions between the two countries. PAGE A14 
 National
 FIRST METHAMPHETAMINE STUDY 
 On the Drug's Societal Cost
 It's semiofficial: the national cost of methamphetamine rivals heroin in its national economic toll. A study from the RAND Corporation tallies the cost of the addictive stimulant at $23.4 billion, but cautioned that many impacts of the substance are difficult to quantify. Page A18 
 DASCHLE'S AMBITIONS COLLIDE
 Tom Daschle's ambitions for public prestige and wealth have collided in a blaze, and not one of glory. Mr. Daschle has withdrawn from consideration for a cabinet job amid uproar over his failure to pay $128,000 in taxes for a private car and driver provided by a prominent donor and the revelation that he earned $5 million in the last four years. Page A18 
 UTAH DRILLING LEASES CANCELED
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar canceled leases to 77 parcels of Utah public land, roughly 100,000 acres, for oil drilling. The leases were originally auctioned off as part of the Bush Interior Department's 11th hour actions that have been widely criticized by environmental groups. Page A18 
 BLACK STUDENTS BEHIND IN A.P.
 The Advanced Placement program has been growing, with 15 percent of the three million students who graduated from public high schools last year passing the exam. But African-American students are far less likely to have passed, or even taken the test, said the fifth annual report on the A.P. program. Page A19 
 OBAMA MAY EASE STIMULUS PROVISO
 President Obama might tone down some of the ''Buy America'' provisions in the $900 billion stimulus package, White House Officials suggest. The provisions become a first test of Mr. Obama's ability to balance the protection of American workers against protests from foreign trading partners. Page A22 
 AIDE HAD TIES TO CORRUPT LOBBYIST
 Kevin H. Koonce, a former aide to President Obama's designated commerce secretary, accepted thousands of dollars in free food and drink and sports tickets, according to court documents from a lobbyist tied to kickbacks. Page A23 
 Obituaries
 WARREN KIMBRO, 74
 A fledgling member of the Black Panther Party in New Haven, he shot and killed a suspected police informer. After a series of highly publicized trials he went on to earn a business degree from Harvard and became a respected community leader in New Haven. His fall from grace and the subsequent effort to regain it was the centerpiece of his life. Page A29 
 MILTON PARKER, 90
 A partner of the Carnegie Deli in Manhattan, he brought long lines and renown to the restaurant with towering pastrami sandwiches, kibitzing with common folk and celebrities alike. Page A29 
 New York
 AN UNLIKELY MOVER AND SHAKER 
 In a Democratic Capital
 When David A. Paterson became governor, his was one of the first congratulatory phone calls; when tensions rose between Mr. Paterson and a Republican legislative leader, he intervened; and when Kirsten E. Gillibrand was chosen as senator, he stood there beaming. At 71, the former senator and now lobbyist Alfonse M. D'Amato, at left, with Ms. Gillibrand, has become a power player. Page A24 
 Business
 MADOFF WITNESS SPEAKS 
 Of Other Possible Schemes
 A private fraud investigator who tried for years to have Bernard L. Madoff investigated by the federal authorities has told lawmakers that he has evidence of another possible fraud. He said he would reveal it on Friday, but he offered no further information. Page B1 
 FOREIGN COMPANIES EYE STIMULUS
 One of the requirements of the $819 billion stimulus package that governs public works is that it utilize only American iron and steel, and such a rule may extend to all manufactured goods. Despite these protectionism noises, many firms are gearing up to get a piece of the action. Page B1 
 Sports
 A TOP HIGH SCHOOL PROSPECT
 Remains Home in Alabama
 When Dre' Kirkpatrick, the nation's top high school cornerback from Gadsden, Ala., announced his intention to stay and play football for the University of Alabama, he displayed his flair for showmanship. In front of a packed auditorium, he pulled on a black and red cap emblazoned with a white ''A,'' eliciting a roar of approval from the crowd. Page B14 
 SOARING JUST BELOW THE SKYLINE
 New York's East River Park will play host to the largest urban snowboarding event in North America, the Red Bull Snowscrapers. The nine-story ramp will draw snowboard stars like Shaun White and Travis Rice, who will compete for half of a $100,000 total purse. Page B14 
 Arts
 A NEW YORK BALLET LEGEND 
 Contemplates Stage Left
 Darci Kistler is the last ballerina in the New York City Ballet to have been hired and nurtured by its founder. After a career spanning three decades, she is now looking forward to exiting with the same grace with which she performed, to spend more time with her daughter and devote more of her time to passing that grace onto others. Page C1 
 A CHALLENGE FOR LIONSGATE
 Normally known for its horror franchises, Lionsgate picked up a challenge when it acquired ''Push.'' It has elements far more horrific than films like ''Saw.'' It is the story of an African-American teenager in 1980s Harlem, pregnant by her father for the second time. Its harsh subject matter will be tough to sell to audiences, now that many are gravitating to fluffier nights at the movies. Page C1 
 When One Man Lives Two Lives C1 
 HUMOR WEB SITE GETS TV SHOT
 Once again, the Web has bridged the gap, traveling from the computer screen to the television screen. Collegehumor.com, a successful humor Web site specializing in frat pranks and sophomoric stunts that millions watch online, is getting a 30-minute comedy series on MTV. Page C1 
 GOING ONCE, GOING TWICE ...
 Leanne Shapton has released a novel cleverly disguised as an auction catalog. In these times that seem to refute consumerism, it's an interesting conceit, but she says it was inspired by estate catalogs that seem to tell a story about former owners, in between lines of text intended to sell. Page C1 
 Home
 UNPLUGGING THE REFRIGERATOR TO STOP GLOBAL WARMING
 A small segment of the green movement -- like Rachel Muston, an information-technology worker, and her husband -- has come to regard the refrigerator as an unacceptable drain on energy, and is unplugging them, for good. Ms. Muston and her husband say they are surprised by how easy it has been. They do miss one thing: cold beer. PAGE D1 
 FANS MOURN DEMISE OF DOMINO
 When Domino magazine folded last week, and was sucked into the economic black hole, a howl of protest rang through the blogosphere. Fans of the girlish, how-to decorating magazine were vociferous in their disappointment, posting anguished comments on design sites and nondesign sites. Even Gawker readers set aside their snark to mourn. PAGE D1 
 The Fix
 Radiators That Don't Disgust
 Radiators are typically big and cumbersome. They clank and rattle. They spit and hiss. The steam or hot-water radiator has been the scourge of designers for decades. In recent years, though, a rebellion against the radiator has gained traction, and the heating industry has begun offering a variety of stylish, compact options. PAGE D2 
 Currents D3
 Turning a California House Japanese D6 
 The Tools in a Barista's Tool Belt D7
 Style
 $10 SAYS THIS BEER BELLY WILL GO BEFORE THOSE LOVE HANDLES
 A new diet trend is emerging, but it's not a new diet. It's a new incentive: money. Internet sites that facilitate diet betting, in which a group of people wager cash on who can shed the most weight, have seen an increase in traffic, and recent studies have shown that diet bets work for many people who couldn't seem to lose pounds any other way. PAGE E1 
 SMALL LABELS MAY NOT SURVIVE FALL
 The age of the young fashion designer may be coming to an end. As stores reduce orders by 20 percent or more for fall, the toll on small fashion businesses is likely to be severe. PAGE E1 
 A KINDER, CHEAPER SHOPPING
 As more merchants freak out and zombie shoppers stampede one another to get marked-down plasma TVs, capitalism may seem to be losing a bit of its luster. Brooklyn Flea, a well-curated weekend market, may help restore your faith in capitalism's simpler pleasures, Mike Albo writes. PAGE E1 
 Editorial
 UNRAVELING INJUSTICE
 The Bush administration's attacks on the rule of law in the name of fighting terrorism have saddled President Obama and his legal team with urgent cleanup work. Page A30
 STILL NICE WORK IF YOU CAN GET IT
 The White House's decision to cap senior executives' pay at bailed-out banks addresses one of the most outrageous weaknesses of the Bush administration's financial rescue package. If anyone is feeling bad for the bankers, don't. Page A30
 WHAT ABOUT THE CENSUS?
 There's been a lot of speculation about what President Obama was thinking when he decided to nominate Senator Judd Gregg, a prominent Republican, as secretary of commerce. An easier question to answer is what he wasn't thinking about. It seems safe to say that the 2010 census was not on the president's mind. Page A30
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Come on, people. Let's give the stimulus some love. What exactly is it you don't like about the little fellow, anyhow? Page A31
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 One of the most brutal regimes in the world, Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, is getting even more repressive, and economic sanctions have done little to change this. A new United States policy should involve sanctions specifically aimed at individuals close to the regime and a clampdown on the country's arms imports. Page A31
 TILL CHILDREN DO US PART
 Research in the last two decades has shown that three's a crowd when it comes to a happy marriage, yet American parents are spending more and more of their time caring for their children. But there are ways to improve marital satisfaction, even with children in the picture, the historian Stephanie Coontz writes in an Op-Ed article. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); HAMAS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); METHAMPHETAMINE (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); AQUACULTURE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); REFUGEES (66%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); HEROIN (60%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (53%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TOM DASCHLE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



195 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Volcker Suggests Ways to Refine Bank Regulations

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who is leading President Obama's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, called Wednesday for fundamental changes in the regulation of financial instruments and institutions, especially of those firms whose collapse can put the financial system at risk. 
 In testimony before the Senate Banking committee, Mr. Volcker called for the end of the mortgage lending giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as hybrid public-private enterprises, saying instead that Washington should assist borrowers through ''clearly designated government agencies.'' 
 He also called for the registration of hedge and equity funds of any substantial size, as well as periodic reporting and disclosure from such firms. 
 For banks and other firms that are large enough to shake the entire financial system if they fail, he called for ''particularly close regulation and supervision, meeting high and common international standards.''
 While he did not offer details of how these more robust regulations would be enforced, he said that central banks, including the Federal Reserve, should accept ''a continuing role in promoting and maintaining financial stability, not just in times of crisis, but in anticipating and dealing with points of vulnerability and risk.''
 Mr. Volcker's recommendations on Wednesday were drawn from a report released in mid-January by a subcommittee of the Group of 30, a nonprofit body of senior representatives from various governments and the private sector. The group's members include Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the White House National Economic Council. 
 The hearing was called in order to consider wide-ranging reforms to the nation's financial regulatory structure. Congress aims to develop recommendations within the coming months. 
 Among the ideas considered Wednesday was the creation of a super regulatory agency, perhaps within the Federal Reserve, which would be charged with coordinating responses among the diverse alphabet-soup of agencies overseeing financial companies. The agency could also be tasked with identifying systemic risks to the economy that might come from diverse quarters, like the links between the collapsing housing market and mortgage-backed securities that led to the current credit crisis.
 ''We must consider whether to empower a single agency to be the systemic risk regulator,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, in his opening statement. ''If that agency is the Federal Reserve, we must be mindful of ensuring the independence and integrity of the Fed's monetary policy function.''
 In an earlier hearing on Wednesday, Harry Markopolos, the money manager who had tried to warn regulators about Bernard L. Madoff's alleged Ponzi scheme, called for such a super regulator, one that would include the S.E.C., an insurance regulator, the Federal Reserve and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
 ''The S.E.C. was never capable of catching Mr. Madoff,'' Mr. Markopolos told a House Financial Services subcommittee.
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank has said the first priority in overhauling financial regulation is to set up an entity to oversee systemic risks of the kind that wreaked havoc on Wall Street last year.
 The idea of a systemic-risk regulator, proposed by the Bush administration last year, is gaining adherents in the Obama administration and in Congress. Mr. Dodd has mentioned the possibility of giving that role to the Federal Reserve.
 Mr. Volcker did not offer a recommendation on whether the Federal Reserve should become the core agency whose job it would be to monitor and control systemic risks to the financial system, but he warned that lawmakers should consider carefully whether to give additional regulatory roles to the Federal Reserve.
 ''You will have a very different Federal Reserve if you have them doing all the regulation from a prudential standpoint, especially considering now that their main role is in the area of monetary policy,'' he said in answer to a question.
 Mr. Volcker also said, in answer to another question, that more government cash will be needed to address the credit market crisis that has dragged the economy into recession.
 ''It's not going to be cheap,'' Mr. Volcker told the committee. ''It's going to be lots more billions of dollars.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); FUTURES (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF THIRTY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



196 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Goodies?: Banks You Never Heard of Are Ladling Out Perks, Too

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Country club dues, gym memberships and personal assistants. Home security systems, chauffeur service and parking. And, of course, all those private jets to ensure the comfort and safety of the boss. 
 Top executives at banks enjoy all sorts of shiny perquisites. Yet despite being propped up by taxpayer bailout money, many banks are not yet ready to give them up.
 Like bonuses, these extravagances are likely to come under greater scrutiny. Indeed, in announcing a salary cap on Wednesday for some institutions receiving government financial aid, President Obama also called for greater corporate review of ''excessive or luxury items'' for executives.
 It's not just big banks like Citigroup that dole out these perks. Small and midsize banks lavish them on their executives, too, and often sweeten salaries and bonuses with fringe benefits. 
 Bank of the Ozarks in Arkansas, which received $75 million in taxpayer money, paid $43,400 in 2007 for a personal assistant to coordinate business and charitable events from the home of George Gleason, the bank's chief executive. International Bancshares of Texas, which accepted $216 million of taxpayer money, picks up the bill for shuttling its chief, Dennis E. Nixon, and his family on a corporate jet.
 The perks are widespread. Across the industry, banks and their boards have been spending handsomely on supplemental benefits to augment salaries and burnish their corporate image, according to an analysis prepared for The New York Times by the executive compensation firm Equilar. Pay experts, by contrast, say many technology and pharmaceutical companies have scaled back on perks over the last few years. 
 ''The party may be over but there is still a lot of cleaning up to do,'' said Paul Hodgson, a senior research analyst at the Corporate Library, a governance and shareholder advisory group. ''Particularly in this climate, change is very seriously needed.''
 Before the financial crisis drove banks to seek taxpayer aid, lofty earnings allowed many to justify lavish expenses for executives. Boards often found business reasons to pay for extras like club dues and chauffeur-driven cars, which faced less scrutiny than salary and bonus figures. 
 The Equilar analysis covers 2008 proxy statements, which reflect the 2007 fiscal year, for banks now relying on the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Of 200 of the largest publicly traded banks that have received taxpayer money, about 61 percent, or 121 banks, paid an average of $10,835 in country club dues for their chief executive in 2007. 
 Nearly three-quarters, or 147 banks, spent an average of $20,668 in car and parking expenses. Corporate jets, now one of the biggest targets of Washington's ire, were financed by 36 banks, or 18 percent of those now receiving taxpayer funds. More often than not, the banks let their leaders use the corporate jet for personal travel, at an average cost of $102,216. And regardless of size, many banks said they were ''required'' for the safety of the chief executive. 
 Some banks began to scale back extras even before applying for the first portion of federal funds, which placed no restrictions on perks. Others, like the American International Group, Bank of America and Citigroup, are curbing expenses under pressure from the government. 
 But a number of others said they had yet to decide how much they would rein in benefit spending after receiving taxpayer money, or would wait to disclose any changes in 2009 proxy statements due in coming months. 
 ''The banks don't seem to have adjusted to the new paradigm they are operating under,'' said Mark Borges, a compensation consultant. ''They haven't yet appreciated that when you take public funds, you now have a new class of shareholders that are going to be more vocal and impatient with the way you operate.''
 Those exposed to the harsh glare of the spotlight are rushing to suppress the most egregious-looking frills. Bank of America, which has received $45 billion in government assistance, said Wednesday that it would sell three aircraft and a Merrill Lynch helicopter after Mr. Obama called on banks to use ''basic common sense'' on compensation. 
 But others, like Regions Financial of Alabama, which posted an unexpected $6.22 billion loss in the fourth quarter and accepted $3.9 billion of taxpayer money, spent more than $23,000 on air travel in 2007 for its chief executive, C. Dowd Ritter. Like many banks, Regions requires its top official to avoid commercial aircraft for safety reasons. ''You have far greater control of your environment in a private aircraft setting,'' said Tim Deighton, a spokesman. He declined to say ahead of the bank's 2009 proxy if the policy would continue.
 Then there are the little perks that add up to big money. 
 In the case of Bank of the Ozarks, Mr. Gleason, the chief, has an assistant working out of his home to oversee business, charitable and social functions held there. Susan Blair, a bank executive, said the arrangement was appropriate and helped produce record results last year. While the stock rose 13 percent, the bank recently accepted $75 million of taxpayer money. 
 Another small lender, UCBH Holdings, which caters to the Chinese-American business community, paid more than $43,700 in 2007 for a car and driver for its chief, Thomas S. Wu. It also covered nearly $20,000 in travel expenses for his wife to accompany him on business, and more than $3,300 in fitness club fees. Steve DiMattia, a spokesman for UCBH, which received $299 million in taxpayer funds after a plunge in its shares, declined to say if the bank would modify its perquisite program. 
 Aside from cars and drivers, covering memberships at the local country club or golf course is also common to grease the wheels of business. At Fifth Third Bank, Kevin T. Kabat, the chief executive, voluntarily declined his 2008 bonus in a year when the stock fell 70 percent and his bank accepted $3.4 billion in taxpayer money. But the bank covered his membership dues at the Cincinnati Country Club last year. In 2007, those fees totaled around $28,600. Debra DeCourcy, a spokeswoman, said such memberships helped business. She declined to say how the bank's perquisites would change in 2009. 
 While bank executives may be fixtures at the local country club, less visible are the millions of dollars for other forms of compensation -- particularly supersize pensions and death benefits destined for executives' heirs. Compensation experts say these benefits are not typically offered to rank-and-file employees. 
 At Bank of America, Kenneth D. Lewis, for example, is entitled to special executive retirement benefits worth more than $51 million as long as the company survives the Merrill Lynch deal. The bank is also paying for around $10 million in life insurance to be passed on to his heirs. ''He has overlapping safety nets,'' said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant. 
 Robert Stickler, a spokesman, said Mr. Lewis earned the retirement benefits ''over 30 years,'' and declined to release details or comment on any changes to executive benefits ahead of the release of the bank's 2009 proxy statement. 
 Citigroup, which received two government lifelines, ''mutually agreed'' last August to end a consulting contract that paid for flights on the bank's corporate jets for Sanford I. Weill, its former chairman, as well as his lavish office space in the General Motors building and a car and driver. At the same time, the bank continues to pay Mr. Weill's $1 million-a year pension.
 ''Citi continually reviews its benefits policies to ensure they are competitive, appropriate and consistent with the environment,'' said Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman. 
 But with public opinion rising against anything that smacks of excess, a handful of banks have already started making changes. 
 Great Southern Bancorp, with operations in three states, recently jettisoned a lake house that the bank had owned since the 1980s that was used by its longtime chairman, William V. Turner. The bank is also seeking buyers for a bank-owned boat, and it is looking for a partner to split the use of its Cessna jet. 
 Kelly Polonus, a spokeswoman, said Great Southern put its plane, boat and lake home up for sale a year ago to reduce expenses. The bank's share price dropped 48 percent last year and it accepted $58 million of taxpayer money.
 GMAC has also grounded the private plane it had provided for Alvaro G. de Molina, the chief executive. Since receiving funds from the government in December, he and all senior GMAC executives now fly commercial. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE EXTRAS FOR TOP EXECUTIVES: An analysis by the pay research firm Equilar of some of the perquisites received in 2007 by the top executive of 200 banks that have received money from the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Some banks have ended some of their perks for top executives or are considering doing so. (Source: Equilar, Inc.) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF THE OZARKS INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); OZRK (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



197 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Predicts 'Probability' of Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In an interview two weeks after leaving office, former Vice President Dick Cheney predicted a ''high probability'' of a nuclear or biological attack in the next few years and said the Obama administration was approaching a ''tough, mean, dirty, nasty business'' of keeping the country safe from terrorists too timidly. 
 Mr. Cheney singled out Mr. Obama's decision to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and to ban coercive interrogation methods as changes in course that could make the country more vulnerable.
 He also sought to justify the Bush terrorist surveillance program and the antiterrorism legislation called the USA Patriot Act.
 ''Those policies we put in place, in my opinion, were absolutely crucial to getting us through the last seven-plus years without a major-casualty attack on the U.S.,'' he told Politico.
 In the interview, Mr. Cheney offered a pointed critique of the Obama administration while expressing near total confidence in his own record and that of former President George W. Bush. 
 Mr. Cheney was unapologetic about the previous administration's failure to head off the economic downturn that began to take shape on Mr. Bush's watch.
 ''We did worry about it, to some extent,'' he said. ''I don't think anybody actually foresaw something of this size and dimension occurring.''
 As for the new White House team, he said: ''I think they're optimistic. All new administrations are optimistic. We were.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



198 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words

 BODY:
EXECUTIVE PAY LIMITS President Obama announced new executive pay limits on companies seeking government assistance, an attempt to change an entrenched corporate culture. 
 It's not just salary and bonuses. Top executives at banks enjoy all sorts of shiny perquisites, and there is no sign they will give them up. [B1.] 
 High pay on Wall Street moves through cycles of excess and correction. After an age of unprecedented wealth, the cycle seems to be turning once again. [B1.] 
 FILM PIRACY GOES MAINSTREAM It has become so easy to watch pirated movies online -- like ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' left, which is still in the theaters -- that many people may not even realize that they could be breaking the copyright law. [A1.] 
 MISSED OPPORTUNITIES Securities regulators could not cool Congressional fury over their failure to act on tips that might have exposed the Bernard L. Madoff scandal almost a decade ago. [B1.] 
 SEEKING STIMULUS DOLLARS Many foreign businesses, alert to the ''Buy American'' provisions in the economic stimulus bill, are building factories in the United States. [B1.] 
 ONE AUTOMAKER SURGES Hyundai, the Korean automaker, doubled its market share last month. A new marketing strategy may be part of the reason. Advertising. [B3.] 
 ALLERGAN SALES SLIP Allergan, a leader in cosmetic medical products, including Botox, said net sales were down about 3 percent in the fourth quarter. But excluding special items and acquisition costs, the company earned 76 cents a share from continuing operations, beating expectations. [B9.] 
 PLANT INSPECTIONS The Peanut Corporation of America, the company at the center of a salmonella outbreak, said that private inspectors last year declared its plant to be in tip-top shape. [B10.] 
 JOB CUTS AT PANASONIC Panasonic is laying off 15,000 workers to deal with sharply falling demand for consumer electronics goods. [B6.] 
 NUCLEAR POWER IN INDIA Areva, a company owned mostly by the French government, has joined in a deal to build as many as six nuclear plants in India. [B10.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: ALLERGAN: Price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BONUS PAY (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (75%); COPYRIGHT LAW (75%); BACTERIA (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); MARKETING STRATEGY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); COPYRIGHT (70%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (66%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (65%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (62%); SECURITIES LAW (54%); SCANDALS (53%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (52%)

COMPANY: PEANUT CORP OF AMERICA (82%); ALLERGAN INC (55%); AREVA SA (53%)

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (55%); AREVA (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (53%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (53%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (53%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



199 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: 100 Job Cuts At Bloomberg Are First Ever For Company

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Bloomberg L.P., the financial news and data firm, said on Wednesday that it had cut 100 jobs, the first layoffs since it was founded by Michael R. Bloomberg 28 years ago. 
 A spokeswoman for the company, Judith Czelusniak, said the cuts had occurred in Bloomberg's radio and television divisions, which are being reorganized around the world. 
 Most of those laid off are based in New York City, where Bloomberg has its headquarters. The cuts represent about 1 percent of the company's more than 10,000 employees. 
 With the layoffs, Mr. Bloomberg's private and public worlds seem to be colliding. As mayor, he is proposing thousands of job cuts to close a big gap in the city's budget. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who founded the company after leaving Wall Street in 1981, is the majority owner of Bloomberg L.P. but no longer plays a day-to-day management role. 
 The reorganization of the TV and radio programming at Bloomberg is intended to reduce overlapping jobs within a far-flung network of international programming and channels, the company said. 
 Bloomberg TV, which has been broadcast around the world on up to 11 channels, is trying to create ''a single English-language global network,'' said Andy Lack, who heads the company's multimedia operations. The company is trying to better compete with popular financial news networks like CNBC, which dominates the United States market. 
 The job cuts jolted the media world because Bloomberg, unlike its peers in journalism, had seemed largely immune to the economic downturn. 
 But the company said the layoffs were not linked to the recession. It plans to hire 1,000 workers in its news and financial divisions over the next year, many of them in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009



200 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Cisco's Boss Sees Recovery Despite Poor Sales Outlook

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems faces a precipitous decline in sales of its networking equipment, but John T. Chambers, the chief executive, is issuing one of the more optimistic forecasts from Silicon Valley -- that the United States economy will recover this year.
 According to Mr. Chambers, most of Cisco's customers expect the economic downturn to linger well into 2010, while a smaller number expect the downturn to ease late this year. 
 In an interview after announcing the company's second-quarter results Wednesday, Mr. Chambers said be believed things might get worse before they get better, but agreed with customers who foresaw better times sometime this year. 
 ''The reason I am more optimistic than others is because you have $1.6 trillion coming in from governments around the world, with the U.S. accounting for about half of that,'' Mr. Chambers said. 
 Like many major high-tech companies, Cisco, the largest maker of networking equipment, faces declining corporate spending. Growth in orders fell 9 percent in November, 11 percent in December and 20 percent in January. These declines prompted Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., to forecast Wednesday that revenue for the current quarter will plummet as much as 20 percent compared with the $9.8 billion reported in the same period last year. 
 Cisco's bleak assessment of corporate spending on technology could prove especially worrisome for investors. The company's second quarter closed on Jan. 24, giving Wall Street the most up-to-date glimpse into customers' spending patterns of any major technology company. 
 In addition, only 20 percent of Cisco's sales come from regularly repeating deals, so Cisco must fight for 80 percent of its sales every quarter. This gives it better insight into current fluctuations in customer demand than many companies have.
 Mr. Chambers's optimism stems from the large amounts of government spending both here and abroad on infrastructure projects, including things like better broadband technology, health care and education, that should drive equipment sales. Mr. Chambers credited governments in the United States and abroad with relatively efficient action in enacting new infrastructure programs.
 ''The central banks around the world are working very aggressively to get that money into the marketplace,'' he said. 
 During the conference call, Mr. Chambers, who says he is a Republican, also complimented the new president. ''President Obama is off to a great start,'' said Mr. Chambers. ''I think his economic team is world class.''
 Cisco plans to increase its investment in sales programs aimed at customers in America, China and India, viewing those countries as the first to increase their spending. It will then mount a second sales effort in Mexico, Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Russia, expecting business in those regions to pick up next. 
 Despite such optimism, Cisco must deal with some harsh immediate realities. 
 The company's second-quarter net income tumbled 27 percent to $1.5 billion, or 32 cents a share, which compares with net income of $2.1 billion, or 38 cents a share, reported in the same period last year. Cisco beat the consensus forecast from analysts polled by Thomson Reuters of 30 cents. Revenue in the second quarter fell to $9.1 billion, or a drop of 7.5 percent from the $9.8 billion recorded a year earlier.
 Seeking to save about $1 billion in costs this year, Cisco is considering laying off 1,500 to 2,000 of its 67,300 workers. Mr. Chambers hesitated to characterize this as a ''broad-scale layoff,'' which he defined as cutting at least 10 percent of a company's work force. However, he added, larger layoffs remained a possibility if conditions worsened. 
 During the second quarter, Cisco amassed $3.2 billion in cash -- one of the highest amounts in company history -- leaving it with $29.5 billion. The majority of that cash remains overseas. Cisco could use its cash hoard to continue acquiring companies, placing an immediate emphasis on bolstering its consumer electronics business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BROADBAND (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

 
